K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Uncle Buck  told us that Mr A took out an initial loan of £100  on 10 September  2014 and it 
agreed a rollover  on 30 September  2014. 
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Buck shouldnt have lent anything to Mr A, given his other  
outstanding high cost loans at the time.
Uncle Buck  said it knew about  those other  loans  and it took those into account, plus the 
other information its credit checks showed and what Mr A had said about his finances  and 
spending. It said the lending it provided  Mr A was still sustainably affordable for him given 
the figures hed declared and the information  its other checks  showed.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been settled, it comes  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN14756552Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
As the original loan agreement isnt any longer available I dont know  exactly  what all the 
details of that loan were. Uncle  Buck  says that there was a rollover and Mr A was given 
extra time to pay this loan. Uncle Buck says that no additional funding  was provided (on top 
of the amount originally agreed  and loaned).  And I can see this appears  to be reflected in 
Uncle Bucks notes  from the time.
Our adjudicator approached the complaint on the basis that Uncle Buck  had provided some  
extra capital (another £85) on top of an original loan of £100. And looking at other 
information from Uncle Buck, I can see why our adjudicator says this is what  happened.
But irrespective of what happened once the loan was set up, I think  the key thing I first need 
to decide is whether Uncle  Buck  acted  fairly  and reasonably  when it made a decision to lend 
to Mr A in the first place.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr A to provide details of his income and to tell Uncle Buck  what  he 
normally spent each  month. Uncle Buck carried out credit checks  which it says confirmed the 
monthly income figure Mr A provided was accurate. 
Uncle Buck  has said contradictory  things about  what it saw when considering Mr As loan 
application. In the final response  letter it sent Mr A it said:
We took into consideration you had 3 active short-term loans but there was nothing  within  
your credit file which would have given us reason to decline your application or indicate  that 
you were in financial difficulty.
When our adjudicator recommended upholding the complaint, Uncle  Buck then said to us:  
According  to the credit report we were  shown, Mr A had no outstanding short term loan 
balances at the time of his first application. This suggests he may have repaid some 
accounts which had not been  updated  as settled.  In fact he had no evidence  of judgements 
or insolvency, no delinquencies  in 12 months or defaults in 36 months and a total active loan 
balance of £2294, which was less than his net monthly income and 1.23 times his monthly 
take home pay. He had a revolving credit balance which had a capacity of £644  on the limit 
and had included  a payment of around 9% of the balance in his expenditure. This is more 
than the minimum payment required.
Ref: DRN14756553Uncle Buck  has sent us a copy of its credit checks. As far as I can see, it does look like 
Uncle Buck  could have  seen  that Mr A had three  other short  term high cost loans 
outstanding when he asked to borrow this loan from Uncle Buck. 
Looking at what Uncle Buck knew about Mr As income and expenditure, Mr A appeared to 
have more than £2,000  of disposable income  each month. 
But that information is clearly at odds with him borrowing from multiple  short term lenders. 
I think that should reasonably have led Uncle Buck to the conclusion that the information 
hed provided  about his finances was highly inaccurate and that it was likely that Mr A was 
facing serious problems managing his money
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to conclude that it was likely  Mr A would be 
able to repay this, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner.  
And Uncle Buck shouldve  declined Mr As loan application and not lent him anything.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck should  do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr A towards interest,  fees 
and charges on all the lending  that Uncle Buck provided to Mr A in September 
2014 (for the avoidance of doubt this includes the initial  loan plus what  Uncle 
Buck described as a rollover), but not including anything  Uncle Buck  has 
already refunded.
B.Calculate  8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  by Mr A which  
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr A originally  made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr A the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Remove any adverse  information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr As credit file 
for loans it provided to him in September 2014.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr A as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1475655