K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy with TSB Bank  plc (TSB) because two transactions  for the same amount  
were taken from her current account  on separate occasions. This led to a debit card 
transaction being declined  and the situation caused  Mrs S considerable stress and 
inconvenience.
background 
On 28 February 2019, Mrs S made  a payment  towards  a loan account she had with TSB for 
£10,620. On the same  day, she went out with friends and her card payment was declined. 
She contacted TSB and was informed  the payment went out from her current  account twice 
 one was a manual payment and the second was a debit card payment. The debit card 
payment was removed  by TSB on the same day and that rectified  the account back  to the 
balance it should  have been before the error.  Mrs S was concerned other  payments may 
also get declined  as a result of what happened. However TSB assured her the account was 
corrected and offered  Mrs S compensation of £100 in recognition  of the error  made  and the 
embarrassment caused to her. It also offered her £12 for the cost of calls she had to make.  
Mrs S was further worried about  her mortgage  payment  being  declined  especially as it was 
the first payment that was due. So, for her own peace of mind, while there  were  still sufficient 
funds available  for the mortgage payment to go through, she decided  to borrow £500 and 
credited this amount to her account  on 3 March  2019. The mortgage payment did go through 
with no issues. 
On 5 March 2019,  a further £10,620 was unexpectedly debited by TSB from Mrs S account. 
This left the account significantly overdrawn and Mrs S had to contact  TSB again. Once it 
became aware,  TSB refunded the amount back into her account and returned the balance 
as if the error hadnt happened. 
In terms of the loan account itself, TSB refunded the loan interest of £16.82, the settlement 
fee of £73.62 and a further  refund  of £32.28  following the last payment when the account 
went into a negative balance by £32.28. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy with how TSB had handled  the situation and made a complaint to it. 
TSB resolved and closed the original  complaint stemming from the error made on 
28 February 2019. Our investigator got involved as Mrs S was unhappy with the delays 
caused in answering the further  complaint. The investigator recommended a further £100 
compensation to be paid to Mrs S following the error  made on 5 March  and TSB agreed.  
However, Mrs S didnt accept this amount and thought a fairer amount for the errors and the 
stress caused to her would be £500. 
Shes asked  for an ombudsman to make a decision. So the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19594282Having done so, I think the key issue for me to decide is whether the offer made by TSB 
following the second error made  on 5 March  2019  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
TSB has accepted the errors TSB made; its apologised and has made the following offer in 
recognition of the stress, inconvenience and any delays it might  have caused:
£112 for the error made on 28 February 2019;
£100 for the error made on 5 March 2019;  and
£122.72 refunded for the loan interest, the settlement fee and the further credit.
So, the total compensation offered by TSB is £334.72. I appreciate that Mrs S would like a 
separate compensation payment of £500 for the second error made in March 2019. 
However, while there were two separate errors  made, I think  they were  linked.  I also 
acknowledge that the errors shouldnt have happened,  especially the second time as this 
would have caused Mrs S undue stress and worry. 
Ive considered everything thats happened and overall, Im satisfied that TSB has taken 
responsibility for the errors it made and has put this right for Mrs S. Its apologised and paid 
a total compensation of £334.72. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint  and TSB doesnt need  to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think the offer given by TSB Bank plc is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959428