K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V say Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs V bought the policy  in 2010 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy provided cover for Mr V alone.  The 
policy provided cover for Mr V for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Vs monthly mortgage payment for 
up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim.  At the time, it cost £83.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mr V was employed as a youth services manager. He has told us he was 
entitled to six months full pay followed  by six months  half pay if he was off work sick. He has 
also told us he wouldve received redundancy pay and had death  in service benefit  equal to 
twice his salary. Mr V has told us did not have any health problems at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2010.
Mr and Mrs Vs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Vs representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs V 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Vs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs V about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs V 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN11773992The information Mr and Mrs V received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Vs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN11773993General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs V sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN11773994including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs V, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs V 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs V 
and Lloyds , Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs V know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the documents  completed at the time of the sale,  in particular the 
demands and needs  assessment as well as the separately completed  PPI application form. 
These show that PPI was discussed with Mr and Mrs V. It looks like Mr and Mrs V chose  to 
take PPI out and that they chose to take it out in Mr Vs name alone. There  is nothing in the 
documents Ive seen  which  would suggest  PPI was compulsory. And I havent seen anything 
which would lead me to conclude  that Mr and Mrs V might have been pressured into taking  
PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs V knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds  provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs V (in their initial PPI questionnaire) agree that advice was 
provided during  this sale. In their subsequent PPI questionnaire Mr and Mrs V say advice 
wasnt provided. Looking  at what happened  when  Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs V the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice. This is because PPI was sold in connection with a 
mortgage during  a branch  meeting and Ive seen a copy of the demands and needs 
assessment which  sets out that advice was provided and what that advice consisted of.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs V with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs V. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Vs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs V had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means  I dont  think  it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because I 
dont think that the questions  asked  were sufficient to be able to elicit responses which  would 
enable the representative to make  a suitable  recommendation.
Ref: DRN11773995Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs V given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs V, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr V met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs V had a need for the policy   Mr V was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Vs finances would be put under strain  if he was not working 
 even allowing  for the sickness  and redundancy benefits he was entitled to and Mrs 
Vs income. The policy would have helped  Mr and Mrs V manage  the consequences  
were Mr V unable to work. Mr V has told us about his generous employee benefits. 
However, this policy would have paid out in addition to the benefits and multiple 
claims would have  been possible.  Mr and Mrs V could  have  used the PPI to pay for 
their mortgage while  Mr Vs sick pay/redundancy pay could have been used to pay 
for other  essential  living expenses.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs V. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs V. 
There was nothing  about Mr Vs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr V has told 
us he didnt have  any health problems at the time of the sale. There  were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
occupation) condition, the requirement that Mr V be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for 
a maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover 
given:
Mr Vs circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs V be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs V sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds  
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs V were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Ref: DRN11773996Mr V was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs V 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs V agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs V Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs V all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Vs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Vs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Vs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs V about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Vs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs V have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  s shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs V? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs V suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds   didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
V. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs V suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs V would  have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
Ref: DRN11773997While Im not persuaded Lloyds  took  the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs V, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs V have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds  had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs V would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs V say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs V had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs V knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs V applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs V would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a couple  of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs V would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs V would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Vs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs V thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr V knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies or for which  he had 
Ref: DRN11773998seen/arranged to have seen a doctor about or received treatment from a doctor for in 
the 12 months before the start date; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr V 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr V be totally 
unable to do his own job or any similar  job his ability, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; or if he was unemployed  at the time of the disability, 
that he be unable  to do any work;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs V pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs V from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr V was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr V wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  from the 
information available to me it doesnt  look like Mr V had any pre-existing medical conditions  
and he was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had some  good reasons to take 
the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs V would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr V had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job (if unemployed at the time of the disability)  
which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be qualified for, it might have played into his 
thinking about what he would do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  
although given  Mr Vs circumstances, on balance, I still think he would have been interested 
in taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs V that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr V would have received full sick pay for.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs V would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr V be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
Ref: DRN11773999their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Vs sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs V would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr V was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs V would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Vs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs V would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs V found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs V believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs V in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs V compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN117739910Im also aware that Mr and Mrs V think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds s statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs V, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2010 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Vs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs V and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs V in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1177399