K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont meet  her medical  costs  under a 
claim she made against her car insurance policy. 
background
In July 2018 Ms P made a claim to her insurer, AXA.  She said she had to swerve to avoid 
hitting another  car while driving through  thick smoke due to a fire in a nearby  field. 
Ms Ps car was damaged  by the fire and unfortunately  Miss P was also injured. AXA settled 
the claim as a fault claim and paid Ms P a total loss settlement  as it said her car was a write 
off. 
Ms P complained. She didnt think it was fair for AXA to treat the claim as a fault claim. And 
she was unhappy  that she couldnt claim for her own personal injury.  But AXA said because  
there was no third party to recover the claim costs from, this was the correct way to record 
the claim.  AXA said Ms P couldnt  claim for any personal injury for herself  under her policy.  
But her son  as a passenger in her car  could.  It contacted Ms Ps broker.  They told AXA 
Ms P had separate  legal expenses cover  so AXA said Ms P could contact her broker about  
this. 
Our investigator thought that  due to the circumstances of the incident  AXA had acted 
reasonably. He explained that its standard in the industry to record  a claim as a fault claim 
where an insurer cannot recover its costs from a third party.  This doesnt  mean  that the 
incident was the customers fault.  
Ms P feels AXA should have looked  to recover its costs from the owner of the field where  the 
fire happened. She doesnt  feel its fair that  through no fault of her own  she is dealing  
with the day to day consequences of having  a serious injury. She said she lost her car and 
her job as a result. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The circumstances of the incident are that a flint stone from machinery being  operated  in a 
field caused a fire. AXA said that it wouldnt have been able to prove  the farmer was 
negligent or legally liable   as the risk was not foreseeable or preventable. It said that in any 
case, the machinery would be operated by contracting firms who are subcontracted to deal 
with harvesting for landowners. So AXA saw it as an unrecoverable accident. It said it can 
look to deal with Ms Ps sons  claim for injury  against her policy  as he was an innocent party 
- being  a passenger.
We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Ms Ps policy with AXA has a very common term which Ive found in all motor insurance 
polices Ive seen.  AXA can take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Ms Ps name.
Ref: DRN18961022This means  AXA might make a decision Ms P disagrees with, but the policy  allows AXA to 
do this. We dont disagree with this term in principle  provided  AXA can show  it applied  the 
term fairly.
Im sorry  to read of Ms Ps injuries as a result of the incident. As she bought the policy 
through a broker,  its possible  that she can seek assistance under a separate legal expenses 
policy. But as I understand AXA isnt the insurer for that policy, I cant consider  that matter  
any further. 
I understand Ms P is disappointed with the outcome of her claim with AXA. But AXA can 
make a decision that its better to settle  a claim than look to defend it  with the risk of 
significant costs   if it considers its chances  of success are low. So I think  its decision to 
settle the claim as a fault claim was reached  reasonably and in line with the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1896102