K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains,  on behalf of Company J, that Spectrum Payment Services Limited (trading 
as Acorn Account) unfairly closed the business  account because of a change in his 
residential address.  
background
Mr W, on behalf of Company J, applied for a business account with Spectrum online in 
September 2016. In January 2018  he called Spectrum to request access  to the account 
online as he hadnt  used the service  for several months. 
During this conversation he told Spectrum  he had moved to Spain. Spectrum said this was 
outside the account terms and conditions  as a director would need to reside  at a 
residential address  in the UK to be eligible for an account. Spectrum told Mr W they would 
be blocking  the account with a view to closing  it down.  Mr W said he would get his 
accountant to open a new account.  
In the meantime, Mr W requested online access to the account  as he needed  to obtain the 
statements. Spectrum were unable to provide him access, because they needed to send out 
a new security details to Mr Ws residential address but as he had moved  to Spain, they 
werent able to send  the details abroad. Mr W asked for the details to be sent by email, but 
Spectrum said as email wasnt a secure  method of communication,  they were unable  to do 
this too. 
Following further communication between Mr W and Spectrum,  Mr W remained  dissatisfied 
with the way the bank had treated him in blocking the account  and not allowing his access.  
He felt the terms and conditions  werent  clear on the eligibility for the account and so should 
be read in his favour  so he complained to Spectrum.
Spectrum didnt uphold his complaint because by moving to Spain they said Mr W had fallen 
outside the terms and conditions, so it was entitled  to block the account with a view to 
closing it down. There was some dispute  about  the final response from Spectrum being sent 
to the old address but ultimately Mr W still didnt agree  so referred  the complaint to our 
service.  
Our investigator referred  to the banks terms and conditions that require account holders and 
their representatives to have a residential address in the UK at which  they reside. And as the 
investigator felt Mr W no longer met the terms and conditions,  they said Spectrum were 
entitled to close  the account in line with the terms. Mr W disagreed with the investigator and 
felt they hadnt  fully considered all his complaints  so asked for the matter  to be referred  to 
an ombudsman. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint and Ill explain  why. 
Mr W remains unhappy in the way that Spectrum  closed the account and doesnt  feel the 
terms they relied on were  clear, so he feels they should be read in Company Js favour.  He 
Ref: DRN13515092also feels Spectrum should have given him notice of account closure and shouldnt  have 
immediately suspended the account. 
I have considered the account terms and conditions. Under  the heading Introduction and 
Account Opening, it says:
1.3 These terms and conditions explain how the Acorn Business Account  works and 
explain our obligations  to you and your obligations to us.
1.4 To be eligible for an Acorn  Business  Account, you must  be at least 18 and have a 
residential address  in the UK at which you reside.  Your business  must be a business 
registered in the UK
In my view, these terms are entirely  clear. They set out key eligibility criteria  to have the 
account. Mr W feels this only applies at account  opening and theres no ongoing 
requirement. I dont accept this analysis.  There  would be little purpose in having such a 
requirement if the account holder  could  simply set up the account and then change the 
information so that they no longer met the criteria. Following the logic applied  by Mr W, the 
obligations referenced  in condition 1.3 would also only apply to the account opening. That 
would render the entire agreement meaningless.
I agree  that in UK law, an ambiguous contract  term should be held to have  the meaning that 
favours the party that didnt write  the term. But I dont consider the heading under which  
condition 1.4 appears causes any real ambiguity in the meaning  of that condition. In its 
overall context, I dont accept that it is capable of holding the narrow  interpretation  Mr W 
seeks to argue. The term relates to being eligible for the account. So Mr W needs to have a 
residential address  in the UK at which he resides,  to be  and to remain  eligible. As hed 
moved to Spain this was no longer the case, so he wasnt eligible for the account  under 
these terms. 
Ive also considered if Spectrum should  have given  Mr W more  notice about closing the 
account. This is dealt  with under  the Closing your Acorn Business Account section:
8.4 Normally, we give you 60 days notice before closing your Acorn Business Account. 
However we can close  your Acorn Business Account immediatelyif you are in breach of 
these Terms and Conditions 
Mr W no longer  met the criteria for the business account. That placed him in breach of the 
condition which related to eligibility for the account. And that suggests Spectrum was entitled 
to terminate the agreement without notice,  though  even if the bank had given notice, the 
suspension would mean Mr W would have needed to make alternative arrangements  
relatively soon.
Mr W has indicated  his belief that the account terms and conditions need  to be considered  in 
light of the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA2015). Im afraid I have to disagree  with him on 
this point too  the account  is a business banking agreement between Spectrum and 
Company J. The CRA2015 provisions  apply only to arrangements entered into by 
consumers. The CRA2015  defines a consumer  as an individual  acting for purposes  that are 
wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession. As a limited 
company, Company J isnt an individual. Nor, in operating a business bank account, could it 
properly be said to be acting for purposes outside  its business.
Ref: DRN13515093Mr W also raised concerns about not being provided with the statements for the account and 
the denial of use of Company Ws money  while the account was suspended. 
Mr W requested  copies  of his statements during his calls with Spectrum  in January 2018, as 
he needed them to file his accounts. Mr W says Spectrum has to date failed to provide the 
statements despite agreeing to send  them to him. Spectrum provided me with the calls 
between them and Mr W. In one if the calls Mr W had with Spectrum  on 29 January  2018 the 
advisor asks Mr W for the address to send the statements, but Mr W doesnt  provide an 
address and says,  thats not necessarily the resolution I want, anyway. Had Mr W provided 
the address, I think Spectrum would have sent the statements  to him, but as no address  was 
provided, they werent able to do so. So, I cant say that Spectrum acted unreasonably in not 
providing the statements without an address.
Regarding Spectrum  denying Mr W access to Company Js money  Mr W was told in his 
initial call that a block would need  to be placed  on the account with a view to closing it down. 
Spectrum said Mr W would need  to provide new bank details for them  to transfer the funds. 
Mr W stated that he would get his accountant to open a new account. Having considered  the 
calls and correspondence I cant see that Mr W provided these  details until October 2018 at 
which point the funds were immediately transferred so I think if Mr W had provided  these  
details earlier the funds would have been transferred sooner to allow  him access. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr W has said,  and although I may not have 
highlighted everything hes said in this decision, I want him to know  Ive read it and taken it 
into account along with all the relevant rules  and regulations. But overall  Im satisfied 
Spectrum havent treated Company J unreasonably, so I wont  be asking them  take any 
other action.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
Company J, to accept  or reject my decision before  23 April 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1351509