K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains British Gas Insurance Limited  have declined a claim on his British Gas 
Homecare policy.
background
The previous  owner  of Mr Ss property had a British Gas boiler installed in 2009. Mr S 
moved in during 2012 and registered  the boiler to his existing Homecare policy.
In March 2019, Mr S had a kitchen fitted.  His kitchen planner advised him the boiler needed  
to be raised as it was too close to the worktops.  He hired a third party and the work  was 
completed in the same  month. 
In April 2019 Mr S began having  problems  with the boiler. British Gas sent an engineer out, 
but they were  unable  to get the boiler working  and recommended a power flush  and 
replacing the boiler. Mr S said the engineer  told him a new boiler came with a free power 
flush  but he found out later it didnt. Mr S didnt agree with the recommendation so 
British Gas sent a second engineer, they replaced  parts in the boiler, but it didnt fix the 
issue. British Gas then sent an engineer from the boilers manufacturer, but they also said it 
needed to be replaced. Mr S agreed to have  a new boiler installed and made  a claim for it on 
his Homecare policy. British Gas declined his claim as the boiler hadnt been  continuously  
covered since the date of installation. Mr S brought  the complaint to this service.
British Gas also said another exclusion  applied  as the boiler had stopped  working after it 
was moved by a third party  meaning it wasnt covered.
Our Investigator  didnt think we should  uphold Mr Ss complaint. They didnt  think  British Gas 
were fair to apply the first exclusion. But as the boiler had been moved by a third party  
before it stopped working, they were fair to apply the second when declining Mr Ss claim.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed called out British Gas several times about boiler issues since 
he moved in and theyd offered to pay for a new boiler after the second  engineer  failed to fix 
it. He said he was told a powerflush would be free with the new boiler, but he was charged 
for it, and as there have been  no issues since the boiler was changed  it shows he didnt 
need it. 
Mr S said he called British Gas before the boiler was moved and they never  told him it 
wouldnt be covered  if moved by a third party. Mr S is also unhappy British Gas didnt offer to 
move the boiler.  He wants a refund for the powerflush and for British  Gas to make  a partial 
contribution to the cost of the new boiler.
The complaint has now passed to me to make  a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN17450022Mr S previously settled a complaint with British Gas about call outs for his boiler, so I wont 
be considering  this in my decision. The powerflush  relates to an activity  this service doesnt  
have the power  to consider, the sale of a new boiler, so I wont be commenting  on this any 
further. I will be deciding whether British Gas applied the exclusions of the Homecare  policy 
fairly to decline Mr Ss claim.
The policy booklet  says British Gas will replace  a boiler if its continuously covered by them.  
There was a break in cover when the property  was unoccupied under the previous owner,  
but Mr S registered the boiler  with British Gas within days  of moving  into the property - so I 
think he did everything he could.  British Gas job history also shows it was inspected  by them 
shortly after  and reported no issues. So, I dont think its fair for them  to rely on this 
exclusion to decline Mr Ss claim. 
The policy booklet  also says the policy wont cover damage caused by anyone  but 
British Gas. Problems started to develop with the boiler around 3 weeks after it was moved.  
The job history supplied  by British Gas says the first engineer  noted  a third party had carried 
out work  to move the boiler and altered pipework  and there were now issues.  It says the 
engineer advised Mr S any problems related to the work  wouldn't  be covered.  Its not 
unreasonable for British Gas to rely on its engineers' assessment but they sent two more 
engineers, including one from the manufacturer, that said the boiler needed to be replaced.  
So, I think its likely the problems were  because of the work  and British  Gas were fair to 
apply the exclusion  to decline Mr Ss claim.
Mr S says he called  British Gas to explain that he was hiring a third party  to move the boiler  
 and they agreed this wouldnt affect  his cover.  Neither party has been able to provide 
information to show Mr S made the call, but I think its likely he did. I also think its likely that 
when he told British  Gas the boiler was being moved  by a third party,  the representative he 
spoke to wouldve  known  it could affect his cover - and made him aware of the exclusion. 
British Gas didnt  need to offer to move the boiler  this isnt part of his cover, so I dont think  
this makes a difference. Mr S also said British  Gas offered to pay to replace the boiler, but 
Ive seen nothing  to show they did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. British Gas Insurance  Limited dont  
need to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1745002