K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about three instalment loans that she took out with Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL), which she said were unaffordable.
background
Miss G was given three instalment loans by SL from January 2015 to May 2018. A summary 
of the loans taken out by Miss G is shown  below:
Loan 
numberDate  of loanRepayment  
dateLoan 
amountRepayment amounts
1. 2/1/15 29/6/15 £10026 weekly repayments of  £6.46 
(around £27.99 per month)
2. 15/4/15 28/10/15 £100 6 monthly repayments  of £28.33
3. 17/5/18 Unpaid? £1,000 12 monthly repayments of £166
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  
Miss G disagreed and said that SL had put Loan 1 in the wrong name. It had used her surname 
as her first name and her first name  as her surname.  And she said that if SL had carried  out a 
proper credit check on her later loans, it would  have seen defaults  on other loans. She owed  
over £70,000 on the defaulted loans. Miss G also said that another  case of hers with this 
service had been upheld and she didnt  understand why this case wasnt being upheld.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss G 
and to SL on 3 September 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Id noted that Miss G had said that Loan  1 was put in an incorrect name. But I didnt think 
there was any issue with my dealing  with Loan  1 in this complaint.  I thought  both Miss G and 
SL had appeared to accept that Loan  1 as well as Miss Gs other  two loans were an 
accurate reflection of their relationship.
Id also noted  that Miss G had referred  to another of her complaints with this service. But I 
said that we assessed each complaint on its own merits. And it wasnt always  appropriate  to 
compare the outcomes  of each complaint without a detailed understanding  of the specific  
facts of each complaint.
I explained that when SL lent to Miss G the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN15881572But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Miss G could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Gs complaint.
SL had made a number of checks before it lent to Miss G. It had asked her for details of her 
income and expenditure. Miss G had declared  her monthly income  as £2,146  and her 
expenditure as £725 before Loan 1, her income  as £2,500 with expenditure of £750 before 
Loan 2, and income of £3,400 and expenditure of £2,625 before Loan 3. And SL had 
increased Miss Gs declared  expenditure in its assessments of Loans 1 and 2 to reflect what 
it had seen in its credit checks and internal models.  I could also see that SL had checked 
Miss Gs housing  status. From the information SL gathered, I could see that Miss G paid 
rent. 
Id noted that SL had checked  Miss Gs credit  file before agreeing  to the loans. It said that 
the checks  it had conducted  didnt demonstrate that the loans werent  affordable  or 
sustainable at the time of application. 
Id asked the adjudicator to ask SL to provide  this service with a copy  of its credit checks. It 
hadnt provided these
Ref: DRN15881573Miss G had provided this service with a copy of her credit report. I could see that in the year 
before Loan 1, she had around  nine defaulted accounts with outstanding balances totalling 
around £77,000. But because the application  for Loan 1 appeared to have been progressed 
in an incorrect name  (and I didnt  know the reason for this), I couldnt  be sure that SL would 
have had a full record of Miss Gs other  credit  commitments. 
But even if SL had been  aware of the defaulted  accounts and had consequently asked 
Miss G about her other  short term borrowing, I thought it was likely that SL wouldve learnt 
that Miss G had two outstanding short term loans with other  lenders  with monthly 
repayments totalling around £110. Id seen these  on Miss Gs credit  report. I didnt  think the 
extent of the other short term borrowing  Id seen was such that it would have put SL on 
notice that Miss G was having problems managing her money. So, I didnt think  SL had done 
anything wrong  in giving Loan  1 to Miss G.
I could see from Miss Gs credit report that in the year before Loan  2, there were around five 
defaulted accounts with balances totalling around  £36,000. Miss Gs application was now in 
her correct name. And, on balance, I thought it was likely that SLs credit  checks  would have 
revealed Miss Gs defaulted accounts. So, it might have been proportionate at this time for SL 
to have gathered  some  further information from her about her other short  term loans. Had it 
done so, I thought it was likely  that SL wouldve learnt that Miss G had around six outstanding  
other short term loans  with repayments due at the same time as the repayments  on Loan 2. I 
could see these on Miss Gs own credit report. I thought that the number of Miss Gs 
outstanding short term loans showed that Miss G was having serious problems managing  her 
money and that SLs loan wasnt likely to be sustainable. So I thought it was wrong for SL to 
have given Loan 2 to Miss G. 
I noted that there was a gap of around 31 months between  Miss G repaying  Loan 2 and 
asking to borrow again. I thought it was reasonable for SL to have considered that gap in 
lending as an indication  that Miss G wasnt reliant  on its loans. So Loan  3 was the first loan 
in a new chain  of lending.
I thought the repayment amounts for Loan 3 were relatively modest  compared  to the income  
that Miss G had declared to SL. And I noted  that SL hadnt added any additional amount to 
Miss Gs declared expenditure. So I thought it was likely that its checks hadnt revealed other 
commitments which might  have prompted  further checks. So given Miss Gs repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and her history with the 
lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for SL to have asked her for the amount 
of information  that would have been  needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And Id said that there wasnt anything in the information Miss G had provided before Loan  3 
or the information SL shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate 
to start verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong to give Loan 3 to 
Miss G.
Subject to any further representations by Miss G or SL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to:
refund all interest  and charges Miss G paid on Loan 2 and pay interest  of 8% simple a
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement*;
apply the refunds referred to above  to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and pay 
any balance to Miss G; and
Ref: DRN15881574Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan 2 from Miss Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Miss G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it and had nothing to 
add. SL didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Miss G and SL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require SL to pay Miss G some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.Refund all interest and charges Miss G paid on Loan 2;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date
     they  were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Apply the refunds referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and 
pay any balance to Miss G; and
4.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan 2 from Miss Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Miss G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1588157