K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that she never  received from The Ancient Order  of Foresters  Friendly 
Society (Foresters Friendly Society) the maturity  values of two savings plans that matured in 
2008 and 2009. 
background
Foresters Friendly Society looked into Miss Ms complaint, but didnt think  it had done  
anything wrong. It explained that Miss M had taken out two ten year term assurance policies 
in 1998 (Policy 1) and 1999 (Policy  2). It confirmed that Policy 1 matured on 27 October  
2008 with a cheque for the maturity  value paid on 5 November 2008.  And Policy  2 matured 
on 29 October 2009 with a cheque for the maturity value paid on 11 November 2009. 
Foresters Friendly Society also confirmed  that deductions for policies ceased coming out of 
Miss Ms wages in the month following maturity. It said that the evidence on its records 
showed that the cheques  had been  issued  and cashed correctly.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She confirmed with Foresters Friendly 
Society that it consented to this service looking into the complaint even though  it had been 
made outside of the relevant time limits.  And given  the evidence  available, she was satisfied 
the cheques had been correctly sent by Foresters Friendly Society and encashed. She said 
that these cheques wouldve named Miss M as payee, and therefore  would  only have been 
cashed by Miss M or into an account  in her name. The investigator acknowledged that the 
amount of time that had passed meant that she didnt have any evidence of which  banks the 
cheques were cashed in at, or who presented the cheques.  
Miss M didnt agree. She said she had supplied bank  statements from the time which didnt 
show her encashing  the cheques. She said she didnt  have any other accounts  although 
she did have a savings  account  and so she was sure she didnt receive  the cheques  and 
didnt cash them in. She acknowledged  that she had moved address since  the time she had 
taken out the policies  and had siblings that had the same initials  and surname. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. Before issuing 
my decision  I asked  Foresters  Friendly Society  if it had any further evidence as to where  the 
cheques were cashed and which bank. It explained that it had no further evidence, and given 
the time that had passed was unable to confirm what bank the cheques  had been cashed in 
at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons. 
I understand Miss M feels very strongly that she was never  sent the cheques at the time, 
and as a result, never received the maturity values from the two policies she had been  
paying into for ten years. She asked for further evidence from Forester Friendly Society 
about where the cheques were paid in  so I put this question to Forester Friendly Society 
before issuing my decision. However, as she can see, there is no further evidence about  this 
issue for it to provide.  
Ref: DRN12101932So Ive considered the facts of Miss Ms complaint very carefully. Where the evidence is 
contradictory and incomplete (as some of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance  
of probabilities  in other words, on what I thinks most  likely  to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I acknowledge Miss M has provided  evidence  of bank statements which dont  show  these 
two cheques paid in  but Im not persuaded this evidence is sufficient to show that Forester  
Friends Society didnt send her the cheques, nor even that she didnt encash them at the 
time. 
The evidence available clearly shows  the two cheques were raised and encashed.  And 
whilst it is now no longer  possible  to confirm precisely which  bank account they were  paid 
into, given the amount of time that has passed,  Im satisfied Forester  Friends Society 
correctly sent the relevant cheques to Miss M. As these cheques  were encashed, Im 
therefore satisfied  that Forester  Friends Society  paid out on these two policies in line with its 
obligations. 
I acknowledge Miss M doesnt recall  receiving these cheques, nor possibly where  she might 
have paid them into. But given the evidence available, Im satisfied its more likely than not 
that Forester Friends Society sent Miss M the relevant cheques and that they were  
encashed. I appreciate  this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss M given her 
strength of recollection  that she didnt receive  these cheques. But in my role as ombudsman  
looking into this complaint, Im required to assess the evidence  impartially  in order to 
determine whats fair and reasonable. And Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask Forester Friends Society to pay out on these policies twice,  when the evidence  
indicates on balance  that it correctly issued  cheques and that these were encashed at the 
time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1210193