K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr H. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. Mr H 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account  in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mr H signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  you make by 
signing separately in the PPI section. And this is what  happened. So I think Mr H would 
have known that he had a choice   though it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt 
remember the detail  of everything that happened so many years  ago. 
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr Hs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr H to decide whether it was suitable.
 The cost of the PPI was shown, so Mr H would have  known how much hed pay each  
month for the PPI.
 However FICL did need  to give Mr H clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence that it did do this properly  at least  
not all the information on the form itself was full enough, and I dont know what  other 
information was given to Mr H. So Ive thought about  whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mr Hs circumstances  at the time,  even if hed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to his decision. I say this because the PPI could have  paid out in addition  to 
any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And it would mean he could have  kept any 
savings or other means of payment in reserve for longer. So the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by 
any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN18809952my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1880995