K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Miss M says AXA France  IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed  
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because AXA told us that Miss M took the store  card in May 1994  
and declined  the cover at that time. AXA told us that the policy  was sold over the phone 
in April 1996. Weve  seen telephone scripts  from November 2003  which  all suggest the 
optional nature of the policy would have been made clear. But the distance  in time from 
these to the time of this sale has reduced the weight I feel comfortable  placing on these. 
But I have considered that the time that has passed since  the sale, and in the absence of 
any detailed testimony from Miss M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence  to 
uphold this complaint on these issues. So, it seems more  likely that Miss M agreed to the 
PPI and did so knowing she did not have to take it. 
Ref: DRN13647012AXA and Miss M agree that the policy was sold without advice. So, AXA didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable  for her. But it did have to give Miss M enough  
clear and timely information  so she could decide  for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss M. The PPI could have 
paid out in addition to Miss Ms sick pay and for longer than her employer would have 
paid her at her full rate of pay. Miss M told us she would have been entitled to a payment 
in the event she was made redundant. But the policy would have reduced her reliance on 
that payment  in the event she lost her job. And Miss M told us she had no savings and 
no other insurance she could use to make her repayments in the event of long-term ill 
health, or if she lost her job. Although  Miss M says she had medical conditions some  
time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing 
medical condition  exclusion wouldve caused  her to change  her mind about  taking  out 
the policy. I say this because Miss M told us the conditions were tonsillitis in 1964,  an 
abcess in 1978 and she had vertigo  in the same year which cost her a week off work. 
Miss M has provided  no detailed testimony about these conditions  and theres no 
testimony that they had caused  her ongoing  issues or any time off work in the 
intervening 18 years  from the latest condition before the sale,  such  that she may have  
thought these to be the main reason she might need  to be off work for over the 30 days 
required to start making a claim  under this policy. It also looks like the cover  was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Miss M would have declined the cover had AXA done 
anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons  to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
Ref: DRN13647013all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1364701