K820x#14complaint
Miss A says she was mis-sold a personal accident  insurance policy  by Avon Insurance Plc.
background
Miss A took out the policy in 2004  when trying  to obtain a loan through her bank. In 2018,  
Miss A cancelled the policy  and said it had been mis-sold. She said she was told at the time 
of sale that by taking  the policy it would help her to get the loan.
Avon explained that, while it had been introduced to her by her bank, it was responsible for 
the sale of the policy.  It didnt  uphold her complaint. It said the policy  wasnt related to any 
loan and had been sold on a non-advised basis. It said Miss A had been provided  with full 
information about the policy at the time of sale.
Miss A was unhappy  at Avons response  and referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, the 
policy had been  sold in an appropriate way.
Miss A didnt accept  the adjudicators findings.  She said that it was her bank which  had told 
her of the insurance  and that it had scare-mongered her into taking out the policy as part of 
the loan agreement. She said she wouldnt have otherwise agreed to take out the policy.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Miss As bank has explained that it invited Miss A to take out the policy, which  was branded  
in the name  of the bank,  but that responsibility  for the sale lay with Avon  which was the 
underwriter. Avon has confirmed this. Avon  has further confirmed that the policy  is a 
standalone policy,  unrelated to any loan. I can see that the policy  would have paid benefit 
directly to Miss A and there  is nothing  to suggest  it was linked to a loan.
Avon has said that the sale was conducted on a non-advised  basis which means  it didnt 
need to ensure the policy was suitable  for Miss A. However,  it did need to provide her with 
enough information to enable her to make an informed decision as to whether to take out the 
policy. Avon says the details of the policy would have  been discussed in a telephone call 
with Miss A and has shown that it afterwards sent Miss A full policy documentation which 
made clear the nature of the cover and its cost. Miss A had a 14 day cooling off period 
during which  she could have cancelled the policy if shed decided  she didnt want  it. She 
didnt cancel the policy but carried on paying premiums for the next fourteen  years.
Miss A has said that her bank discouraged her from cancelling the policy at various times. 
As the adjudicator has explained, this complaint  is against Avon  and it cant  be held 
responsible for actions  of the bank.  Nonetheless,  I note the policy document  explains that 
Miss A could cancel  the policy at any time by writing directly to Avon.
Ref: DRN14449032Overall, I have  no reasonable  grounds for saying that Miss A was mis-sold the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444903