K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading  as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2007 Mr G took out a PPI policy to protect the monthly repayments  he was making  on a 
mortgage. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy and it protected  his mortgage 
repayments in the event  of involuntary unemployment.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that Mr G wasnt  eligible for the policy  as 
he didnt have a mortgage agreement at the time and so couldnt benefit from it. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and asked for an ombudsman review.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Gs main complaint  is that Santander  sold him PPI for a mortgage when he wanted 
insurance for a car loan.  Mr G said he didnt have a mortgage with Santander or any other  
lender  he was simply making payments towards a mortgage. He told us he wasnt  eligible 
for a mortgage himself  as his credit  record wasnt  good enough.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr G to remember exactly what was discussed when he 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. 
I have to look at everything  thats available and take into account the wider circumstances 
when deciding what I think  is most likely.
I can understand why Mr G told us he didnt  have a mortgage in his own name  when 
Santander sold him the PPI  the mortgage was taken out by his late wife in her sole name 
before Mr and Mrs G were married. It appears that Mr G moved into the house  and was 
living there for at least part of the time he was married to Mrs G. They had one child 
together. But its my understanding  that Mr G wasnt ever added  on to the mortgage.  
Then Mr and Mrs G divorced. And it looks like by this time, Mr G had moved  out of the 
house.   
Mr Gs ex-wife died in 2004. The house  (and mortgage) were still in her sole name  and she 
didnt leave a will.
This meant that the house that belonged to her passed by law to the child of Mr and Mrs G. 
But as the child wasnt then 18 years old, he couldnt legally own property. So under the law, 
a statutory trust was set up. 
This means  that personal representatives  were appointed by the court to look after the 
property as statutory trustees  so it could be passed  on to the child when the child was 
18 years  old.
Ref: DRN17475212Mr G became one of the personal representatives  and a statutory trustee. And at that point  
it looks like he moved back into the property to look after his child. And he took on 
responsibility for making the mortgage monthly repayments.
In 2007, Mr G had a meeting with an advisor at Santander. This led to him taking  out PPI to 
protect the mortgage  monthly repayments  he was making, in the event that he lost his job. 
To be eligible for the PPI he took out, a person had to meet  certain requirements. One of 
these was that when the cover started  they were  paying or about to pay a mortgage  
agreement.
This agreement was defined in the policy as follows: 
Your mortgage agreement with Abbey or any other  lender on residential  property, which  has 
priority over any other charge on the property. Residential property means a property 
permanently and solely occupied  by you and your immediate family as your main home.
When he applied to Santander in 2007 for PPI to protect the mortgage monthly repayments 
Mr G was acting in his capacity as a statutory trustee. In other words, he was standing  in for 
his late wife. Mrs G was the person who had originally taken out the mortgage, and she 
wouldve been entitled to apply herself  for the PPI if shed still been living. But Mr G was now 
legally acting in her place. His name effectively replaced her name  on the mortgage  
agreement. He was living in the property and he was making  the repayments under the 
agreement. It didnt matter that the mortgage  wasnt with Santander. So as far as I can see, 
Mr G wouldve been eligible under the policy for the benefits  it offered.  
So I dont  think its reasonable to uphold  this complaint on the basis  that Mr G wasnt  eligible 
for the policy.
But Ive thought carefully about whether theres  any other reason  for me to uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN17475213did Santander make  Mr G aware that the PPI was optional  and did he choose  to have 
it?
Mr G took out the PPI in a meeting at a Santander  branch. I dont  know exactly what  was 
said, but Ive seen some of the paperwork that was completed when Mr G spoke to 
Santanders advisor about his insurance  requirements. Looking at it now, Mr G says he isnt 
familiar with this. And its completely understandable he mightve forgotten  this discussion 
and he doesnt  remember getting  the documents that it appears  were sent or given to him. 
But in my view, these records show that the advisor talked to Mr G about his insurance 
needs beyond  just protecting a car loan. Based on all the information  Mr G provided,  
including the fact that he was paying  a mortgage and he didnt have any PPI to protect his 
mortgage monthly repayments if he lost his job, the advisor recommended  PPI for this 
purpose. And the paperwork says Mr G accepted that recommendation.
Based on what this service knows about  the way Santander usually sold PPI around this 
time, I think its likely  that Santander  would  have explained to Mr G that PPI was optional.  
And this is what the paperwork  Ive seen suggests happened.  The advisor wrote to Mr G 
following the meeting confirming  that PPI was recommended  for him and Santander sent 
him a welcome pack which showed  the policy details. It also included  information on how to 
cancel the policy if this wasnt what Mr G wanted.
So I think Mr G wouldve  been made aware  that it was up to him to say if he wanted to have 
PPI to protect his mortgage. Ive seen nothing  that suggests he didnt want  the mortgage  PPI 
recommended to him or that he wasnt happy  to pay for it at the time. I think  he wouldve 
understood that the cover was specifically for the mortgage he was paying  not a car loan. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment  for Mr G, and his sons  home  (and the 
home where  Mr G was living) wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. So, I can see why Mr G mightve felt PPI was useful to have at the time  even if 
hes forgotten this now. 
On balance, I find that Mr G chose to take out the PPI knowing it was optional.
was PPI suitable  for Mr Gs needs?
If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI (as Santander did here)  it has to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving 
important policy information  in a clear way.
PPI doesnt seem to have  been  an unsuitable recommendation for Mr G based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  The policy wouldve covered his mortgage  
repayments for up to 12 months per claim if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of 
work. 
PPI provided Mr G with valuable cover that gave him additional protection on top of his work  
benefits. Mr G told us he didnt have any other savings or insurance  to rely on to pay the 
mortgage if he wasnt working. 
Ref: DRN17475214PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money. This wouldve protected any 
lump sum Mr G mightve  got, giving him more financial security. I think this wouldve been an 
important consideration for Mr G given his personal circumstances in 2007.  So I can 
understand why someone with redundancy benefits would still want  to have PPI as well. 
I can see why Mr G mightve  wanted PPI at the time  and I think  it was suitable for him.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mr G. So, 
I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Gs decision to take it out.
did Santander do everything it shouldve done when it sold the PPI  and if it didnt, 
does this make any difference  overall?
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  For example 
I dont know if the PPIs cost was made  clear to Mr G before he signed up to have it. 
But Ive taken into account that he applied  separately for the PPI so it seems he was happy  
at the time to pay for it. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that Mr G changed his mind about  this 
when Santander  sent him its welcome  letter or that he couldnt  afford  the monthly premiums. 
The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome  letter sent to him and Mr G couldve 
queried it then if he decided this wasnt something he wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive 
seen, it doesnt  look as if that happened.  
Ive kept in mind  also that Mr G couldve cancelled within 30 days  without having to pay 
anything if he didnt  want to pay the amount of the monthly premiums. 
And he wouldve  had to sign an instruction form to his bank to cover the cost. So, I think its 
fair and reasonable for me to say that it seems  he was happy at the time to pay for PPI. And 
as he was paying for it monthly, he could cancel  it at any time without further  cost,  if his 
circumstances changed or he no longer wanted it.
Looked at overall, as things stand at the moment,  I think Mr G still wouldve decided to buy 
the policy even  if hed been  better informed, as it gave him useful protection in his particular 
situation as a statutory trustee  responsible for paying his late wifes mortgage. And I dont 
think its likely that he wasnt eligible for the cover  or that he couldnt have claimed 
successfully on the policy if hed needed  to.
Ref: DRN17475215Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN1747521