K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on, Ill just refer to Santander in my decision as it is responsible  for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 2009, Mr A took out a PPI policy alongside his mortgage. He paid a monthly amount for 
the policy and it protected  his mortgage repayments  if he couldnt work. He paid £155.35 per 
month for £2,000 per month of cover  for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A disagrees. So, his complaint comes to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  between Mr A and the bank  at the time of sale. It 
isnt reasonable  to expect Mr A to recall  in detail what was said at the time, after so long. 
This means  that what  Mr A says about  how Santander sold him the PPI, isnt enough on its 
own, for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have to look at everything and decide what  
I think is most likely,  taking everything into account.  
Ive seen the high level needs  analysis completed at the time. Its noted in this that Mr A 
wants to protect his mortgage repayments  in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. I think this document can reasonably be relied  on. It was made  at a time 
before this complaint was known about and was part of Santanders usual sales  process at 
the time.  Santander  no longer has a copy of Mr As PPI application. But thats  not surprising, 
banks often only keep  records  for six years.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its likely that at the time, Mr A said he wanted to have the 
benefits that PPI offered him and he decided to buy the policy.
 
Its noted on the higher level needs  analysis that Santander hasnt given Mr A any advice 
about PPI. I cant see that it did. So, I dont think it had to consider whether PPI was suitable 
for him, but it still had to give him the important  policy information in a clear  way. 
Ive thought about whether the policy was appropriate for Mr A and whether having clearer  
information mightve made a difference to whether he decided  to buy the policy or not. But, I 
cant see that he has lost out in any way because of the information he was given. I say this 
because Mr A was eligible  to take out the policy  at the time of sale. It said on the high-level 
needs analysis  he was a manager.  Mr A has since told us he was working overseas for eight 
months of the year. But, either way, it seems he wouldve been eligible for PPI. Mr As also 
Ref: DRN12072192given us different  information about his sick pay. More recently, hes said he wouldve got six 
months worth of pay at full pay. Accepting that to be the case, I still think  that made the 
policy appropriate for him because PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work related benefits  
and for up to 12 months per successful claim, so potentially longer than his work benefits 
wouldve covered  him for. Mr A said he didnt  have any savings. So, I cant  see that he had 
other resources that made the policy inappropriate  for him. The policy wouldve also paid out 
if he was made unexpectedly unemployed. I think it wouldve been  important  to him, to 
protect his home. So, I think the PPI couldve provided him with valuable cover at a difficult  
time, if he wasnt  working. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out some  things the policy didnt cover.  But, Mr A doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those. So, I dont  think  its likely this information 
wouldve made any difference  to his decision to take out PPI. I dont know if the PPI cost 
was made  clear to Mr A when the policy was added.  But, I cant  see that the policy  was 
unaffordable and the monthly  premium couldve been cancelled  at any time without Mr A 
losing out financially.  So, this doesnt change my decision.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold. But, I think Mr A still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been given clearer 
information as it gave him useful protection. I dont find that Mr A has lost out as a result  of 
anything Santander  did wrong. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1207219