K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Casheuronet UK LLC (Casheuronet) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about twenty-eight payday loans and one instalment loan Casheuronet 
(under its trading names of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket)  provided  to Mr H from April 
2012 onwards.  Mr Hs last loan was provided in January 2018.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought  that loans three  to six and the 
loans from fourteen  onwards shouldnt have  been given to Mr H. 
Casheuronet disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr H could repay  the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr H could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this is 
wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds 
Ref: DRN16306322and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr H, I think that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Mr H was unlikely to have been able to 
make his loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan three  and by 
the time it provided  loan thirteen. I say this because:
by the time of loan three, Mr H was into his seventh month of owing Casheuronet 
money. And hed incurred late fees on his earlier loans. By the time of loan thirteen 
Mr H had owed Quick  Quid  money for around  nine months.  In my view,  Mr Hs loan 
history up until these  points was in itself a clear demonstration of his inability to settle  
his loans over the life of the credit  agreement.    
Mr H was even provided with an instalment loan not too long after he paid loan 
twenty-six. So Casheuronet ought  to have realised  it was more likely than not Mr H 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole the repayment of his previous loans 
left in his finances  and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably. 
Mr H owed Casheuronet money for significant  proportions of a six year period. So Mr 
H struggled to make  any real inroads into what he owed Casheuronet and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. This led to Mr H 
paying large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Casheuronet over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Casheuronet provided payday loans three  to six and 
payday loans  fourteen  to twenty-eight and the instalment loan because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr H owed  Casheuronet money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint  and Casheuronet should put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on payday loans three to six, payday loans 
thirteen to twenty-eight and the instalment loan;
Ref: DRN16306323pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr H owed Casheuronet money means  that any information still 
recorded about payday loans  three  to six, payday loans thirteen to twenty-eight  and 
the instalment  loan is adverse. So all entries about  these loans (where they remain)  
should be removed  from Mr Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mr H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1630632