K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2000  alongside  a mortgage 
which she arranged at a Halifax  branch.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold her complaint. Mrs C disagreed with this view.  Mrs C is mainly  
concerned that Halifax advised her that taking out the insurance would improve  her chances 
of getting the mortgage she wanted  and it wasnt made clear  to her that PPI was optional. 
Mrs C told us that she wouldnt have  taken out the insurance otherwise. 
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mrs C bought  PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mrs C to remember all the details of a conversation that happened such a long 
time ago. So what  she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her 
complaint. I have to look at everything  and decide,  on balance, what  I think is most  likely.
Mrs Cs mortgage application  includes  a section which gives  brief details about  the benefits  
of PPI. It says We recommend that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance  
Scheme. (this is what Halifax called its PPI). So I think it wouldve been clear  from this 
wording that it was up to Mrs C to say if she wanted to have PPI with her mortgage.  
Mrs C has signed where it says: Yes, I would  like to take advantage of Mortgage  
Repayments Insurance.
And Ive seen the separate application form Mrs C completed to have the PPI added  on to 
her mortgage account. Shes provided personal information and answered questions  
designed to see if she qualified for PPI. She also applied for some additional benefit for 
mortgage related  costs.  And shes signed the form at the end to say she wishes  to apply for 
the cover.
I can completely understand why Mrs C mightve  forgotten some of these details now. But, 
based on all the information I've seen, I find on balance that Halifax made Mrs C aware at 
the time that the policy was optional  and that she chose to have it.
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Mrs C. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure  the 
policy was right for her. Looking at what  Mrs C has told us about  her circumstances at the 
time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation. 
Ref: DRN19800112Mrs C was eligible for the cover. Although Mrs C told us she was entitled to sick pay and she 
had some other means  she couldve relied on, this doesnt mean that the PPI was unsuitable 
for her needs. 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of any employment  benefits for up to 24 months per claim if 
Mrs C was too sick to work  or if she lost her job and was involuntarily  unemployed. 
So the policy  paid out for significantly longer  than she could've depended on her employer to 
pay her sick pay. And after going back to work for a qualifying period between  each claim, 
Mrs C couldve  claimed again  under  the policy if shed needed to. And she couldve kept on 
doing this for as long as she had her mortgage.  Her mortgage was a substantial financial 
commitment repayable over a number of years. PPI couldve provided Mrs C with long term 
cover while she was paying for her home. 
It looks like savings Mrs C had at the time were  put towards reducing the amount of her 
borrowing. And having PPI provided  more reliable cover than relying on family to help out in 
the event of money problems as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. So 
I think PPI was suitable for her.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if that affected Mrs C. 
So, I dont think having more information about those things wouldve put her off taking out 
the policy. 
The approximate monthly cost of this insurance was shown on the application  form she 
signed to arrange the PPI. So Mrs C wouldve been  able to see this information and the 
monthly premium payable seems to have been  acceptable to her at the time. She also took 
out extra cover so it doesnt look like keeping costs  down  was a priority for Mrs C  and 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for her. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mrs C still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been better informed as PPI gave  
her useful protection in her particular situation.  I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  everything Mrs C has said in response to 
the adjudicators  assessment. But the fact that she didn't  choose  to have PPI on other  
occasions isnt a reason for me to uphold  this complaint. On balance, I dont find theres 
enough information for me to say that Halifax mis-sold her PPI with this mortgage. 
I appreciate Mrs C feels strongly about  this complaint. I understand that what  Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main  points shes  raised that 
have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached  my decision.
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mrs C has lost out as a result of anything  Halifax 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN19800113my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1980011