K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr J are complaining about  the refusal of Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to pay 
for the replacement of their hall flooring after a leak caused damage  to the adjoining  kitchen 
floor.
background
The property suffered a leak in the kitchen which is covered by the home insurance policy. 
When it came to agree the necessary repairs Mrs and Mr J were concerned that the new 
laminate flooring in the kitchen would not be an exact match  for flooring in their hallway. 
When dealing with RSAs  agents Mrs J received telephone confirmation that it would be 
possible for the whole  area, including the hallway, to be re-floored so long as sufficient funds 
were available in the sum that RSA had agreed  with the agent  for the purpose of new 
flooring. 
As a result Mrs and Mr J were led to believe  that they would be able to replace the flooring in 
both the kitchen and the hall.
But RSA later clarified that its policy didnt cover the replacement  of the hall floor. It referred  
to the section of the policy which explained that it would  not pay for the replacement of 
undamaged parts of the building which are part of a set and have  a common use or design. 
It argued that as the hallway and kitchen  were separated by an opening  and, crucially,  by a 
floor divider in the form of a floor bar,  they were separate areas. As the hallway  floor was 
undamaged they declined  that part of the claim.
Mrs and Mr J were unhappy  that they had been told that this work  would be done and felt 
that RSA should honour the promise of its agents.
They complained to this service.  Our adjudicator agreed that the policy  didnt cover the 
hallway but felt that due to the poor handling of the claim, and the misleading information  
provided, RSA should pay compensation of £200 for the distress caused.
Mrs and Mr J were unhappy  with that outcome and asked for their dispute to be passed to 
an ombudsman for final consideration. They felt that in the circumstances RSA should pay 
for the floor to be replaced.  
RSA accepted the view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the outcome reached by the 
adjudicator and will explain  why.
Its clear that Mrs and Mr J are very unhappy  about  how their claim has been handled. I 
understand that the floor in the kitchen hasnt  yet been replaced  but presume that is because 
RSA are waiting for this decision as any change in outcome might require the work to be 
redone. But while I know this outcome will be a disappointment, and I agree that they have 
been misled at times, I dont think that its reasonable  in this case to require RSA to pay a 
claim which isnt covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN17067402I should clarify that its normal  for an insurance  policy to have  this type of limit to what will be 
repaired. And its the normal approach  of this service that a divider between spaces, like a 
doorway and a floor bar, reasonably denotes a fair break in the space to which such policy 
terms apply. So, I think that within the normal scope of the policy RSA is right to decline to 
replace the hall flooring in this case. 
The issue  then is whether it should  be made to go beyond the cover of the policy  because  a 
mistake was made either  by it or its agents, as was the case  here. Its normal  for an insurer 
to pre-authorise a maximum  amount for a claim. This serves  as a limit for repairs  which  
shouldnt be exceeded  without a new authorisation. RSAs agent indicated  that the additional 
flooring could be paid for so long as that limit, in this case £3000, wasnt exceeded. But RSA 
corrected that prior to the work being  undertaken. Thats its right,  as the agent  acts only 
within the limits of RSAs  instructions. RSA isnt bound by what the agent says.
While I have the power to require RSA to pay for the hall floor, even when not covered  by 
the policy, I would need to be satisfied  that there would  be serious detriment to Mrs and Mr J 
were I not to do so. I dont  think that is the case here. In this case  its clear that the 
complainants are very upset by the misleading  information they received from the agent and 
its right that RSA are responsible for that. But I believe that the proper compensation for that 
wrong information is the payment of compensation for the upset, as contained in the 
adjudicators view. If Mrs and Mr J had suffered financial loss as a result  of the wrong  
information, such as if they had acted  on it by disposing of the current hall flooring before the 
position was clarified,  then I may well have required RSA to cover  that loss.
I understand that during  the handling  of the claim RSA identified what  it felt was an earlier  
error in the information provided to it by Mrs and Mr J about the size of the property. As a 
result there was a suggestion that the claim that was accepted, for the repairs to the kitchen, 
would only be paid proportionately, thats  because a higher premium would have been asked 
for the policy if the information had been  known. This was mentioned by Mrs J to this service  
during our handling  of this complaint. But Ive seen a recent communication from Mrs J 
which clarifies that issue  is now resolved and that the only remaining issue  for this decision 
is that of the hall flooring as originally  presented  to us. I cover this for completeness  and to 
clarify that should  there be any further  issues about  the completion of the work  to the kitchen 
then it is properly the subject of a separate complaint, initially to RSA.
 
my final decision
I uphold in part this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc. I require it to pay 
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706740