K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to help her get a refund for a 
payment from her account that she disputed.
background
Miss B signed up online to what she thought  was a free product trial in August 2014. She 
provided her debit card payment details and a delivery charge of £2.99 was taken on 6 
August 2014.  She contacted Lloyds when she found out that £89.99  had been debited  on 21 
August 2014 under  a continuous payment authority (CPA) and she managed to prevent 
another payment for £127.54. She asked Lloyds to help her get a refund as she said she 
hadnt agreed to these  terms.  But Lloyds  said in September 2014  that it couldnt  do so and 
only stop the CPA in future. When she later complained it accepted  that Miss B hadnt 
received a good service when she phoned  about  the dispute  and it paid her £35 
compensation for inconvenience and £4 towards  her call costs.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-When Miss B contacted Lloyds there was no ability to request  a chargeback for the 
misrepresentations of trials such as these paid for with a CPA.
-All Lloyds could do was arrange for the CPA to be stopped.
-The rules of the card payment scheme hadnt  been changed  until April 2015 to cover 
this sort of dispute and that was too late in this case.
-Miss B had provided  further correspondence with the merchant at that time and had 
paid for the goods to be returned using tracked delivery. She had been told by the 
merchant she would  receive a refund but this didnt happen.
-There was no evidence to show shed told Lloyds about this and that there was a 
different chargeback reason that could have been  used
Miss B didnt agree. She said that she should  be entitled to a refund and that she did 
everything in her power to get this. She said that Lloyds should have made more efforts to 
try and recover her money and this was different to complying with any regulations. It hadnt 
made her entitlement to a refund clear  and she thought it was obstructive and unhelpful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate the strong feelings  Miss B has about what  happened.  And that when she 
came to think that Lloyds  should have done  more she raised a complaint about  this. Lloyds 
responded to her complaint in March 2018 and she referred her complaint to this service.
Miss B has provided copies of emails with the merchant in 2014. In the one in which she 
complains she says that it was only when shed  gone back to its website that she found  a 
difficult to read paragraph  in the terms and conditions stating that she would be debited  for 
these costs if she hadnt cancelled within 14 days. And that as she hadnt received the 
goods for 21 days then there was no trial period.
I dont doubt that Miss B didnt  realise  that these were the terms of the agreement. 
Unfortunately she provided  her payment details and a payment was taken from her debit  
Ref: DRN16015802card. So I can understand why Lloyds took the view that a claim would  be based on 
misrepresentation.
Lloyds considered whether it could raise a chargeback which  is through a voluntary scheme 
 and is not a consumer  right. Wed  expect it to do so if a dispute came within the relevant 
scheme rules. Unfortunately that wasnt the case at the time and a requirement for 
merchants for example  to provide seven days notice of a CPA being taken and to give the 
terms clearly didnt  come into force until 18 April 2015. I cant see that was retrospective but 
in any event was after the time available to raise  a dispute here.
I would have expected Lloyds to be familiar  with the issues with this sort of dispute  at the 
time. And, as it seems it did here,  to be able to say quickly that it couldnt help and that there 
wasnt the prospect  of a refund. Although the merchant gave Miss B the impression she 
might get a refund that didnt happen. And there  isnt evidence that she did discuss  this 
further with Lloyds and that it could have helped further. What I can see from her bank 
statement is that she received a £2.99 credit (it seems for the delivery charge) on 1 
September 2014. Lloyds hasnt been able to provide recordings of the calls Miss B had with 
it at the time but has accepted Miss Bs account  that it didnt provide a good  service and has 
paid her the compensation of £39. Im afraid I dont have a basis  to require it to do anything  
more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1601580