K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs L 
disagreed so the complaint was been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  what  Mrs L has now 
told us about her employment  and I still dont think this complaint should  be upheld   Ill 
explain why. 
I set out my initial reasons for not upholding this complaint in my provisional decision of 
1 October 2019. This is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
Mrs Ls recollection of her employment didnt match the information  on the credit agreement  
from the time of sale, so I was not persuaded that Mrs L was entitled  to the employee sick 
pay shed told us about. I contacted Mrs L to ask her for some  more information about  this. 
Mrs L has now responded to confirm  that the information on the credit agreement was 
correct but that she has no information  about her sick pay from that employment.  So this 
information doesnt change my decision, and I still think  the policy wouldve been useful for 
her for the same reasons  set out in my provisional decision.  
Neither party responded with any other  information for me to consider. So based  on my 
previous findings,  and in the absence of any other  new information, I see no reason to 
change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18036802COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside  a 
store card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  this complaint.  Mrs L disagreed 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I currently dont  think  the policy was mis-sold  because:
Ive seen a copy of the store card application  form Mrs L saw and signed which  included a section 
for PPI. In this section Mrs L ticked a box to agree to the cover - but there is nothing  here to 
indicate that she had to tick the box in this section, so I think Mrs L wouldve known  she couldve 
left this section blank  if she didnt want the PPI. This signature is also separate and additional  to 
her signature to agree to the store card  so I think she wouldve seen this was a separate and 
additional product.
So based on this evidence I think FICL made  it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand if she cant remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Mrs L says she wasnt given enough information  about  the policy. And I think its possible the 
information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But she chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that she wouldve 
been affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover - so I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the policy  would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs L says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient employee sick pay at the 
time. Ive asked for evidence of her sick pay as Im not persuaded  the evidence we currently have 
is accurate for her employment  at the point of sale. However, at the time of writing Ive not had a 
response. In any event,  for £1.00 per £100 of the outstanding  monthly balance the PPI wouldve  
paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ls outstanding monthly balance, until she returned to work or the 
outstanding balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay and 
likely for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted.  And so these funds  couldve been used for 
other expenses in the event she was suddenly unable to work.
Ref: DRN18036803So overall I still think  the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs L and I dont think  better information  
about the cost and benefit of the policy  wouldve changed her decision to take out the cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined above I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 1 November  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1803680