K820x#14Complaint
Miss P complains  that Santander  UK Plc applied fees and charges to her current account 
between 2010  and 2014 while she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Background
Miss P has a Santander  current account  with an overdraft. Over the years, Miss P has been 
charged when  her overdraft balance has gone  above the agreed limit or items are returned  
unpaid. Miss P has talked  to Santander about charges a number of times and it has issued 
some refunds. 
In December 2018 Miss P complained to Santander  about the charges shes incurred. 
Santander responded on 10 December  2018 and said it had previously provided support 
when Miss P had raised concerns about the fees and issued refunds in 2014 and 2017. 
Santander didnt  uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Miss P referred her concerns to our service  and her case was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator said we couldnt  look at any charges that were applied more  than six years 
before Miss P complained. Miss P accepted  that there were time limits which mean  we could 
only look back six years. 
The investigator went on to say that the charges incurred within the last six years were 
applied in line with the account  terms. The investigator didnt uphold  Miss Ps complaint and 
she asked to appeal.  As a result,  this case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In line with the investigators comments, 
Im only looking at the charges Miss P has incurred over the last six years. 
Banks and building societies are allowed  to charge customers when an account isnt 
operated in line with the agreed limits.  In this case, Ive looked  at Santanders terms and 
they say it can apply a charge or fee when Miss P exceeds her overdraft limit or items are 
returned unpaid.  Ive looked  at Miss Ps account statements for the six year period before 
she complained  but I havent seen anything to show that Santander has made a mistake  
when its charged  Miss P. All the charges Ive seen have been  applied in line with the 
account terms. 
Businesses are obliged to treat customers experiencing  financial difficulties in a positive and 
sympathetic way. But that doesnt mean they have to refund interest  and charges. In this 
case, I can see that Miss P has raised  her concerns about the charges shes incurred on 
several occasions. Santander referred  Miss P to its financial assistance team and has 
refunded charges as a gesture of goodwill. Im satisfied  from what  Ive seen that Santander 
has treated Miss P positively and sympathetically.  If she remains  in financial difficulties 
Miss P has the option of contacting Santander  to discuss the situation. There are also 
independent organisations detailed on our website that may be able to offer advice. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss P, but the charges Ive seen have been correctly applied  in line 
with the account terms. Im satisfied Santander has treated  Miss P fairly.  As a result, Im not 
telling Santander  to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN17117892My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1711789