K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a disputed withdrawal he 
says he didnt carry out. Hes also unhappy with the level of service they provided and the 
opening times of their fraud telephone line. 
Background
Mr A says that a fraudulent ATM  withdrawal of £600 was made  from his current  account on 
the 10 May 2018.  
Mr A says the last time he used his debit card was at a supermarket the day before the 
disputed withdrawal for both a failed ATM withdrawal and a point  of sale transaction. He 
doesnt recall anyone around the machine acting suspiciously but says he likely lost his card 
around this time.
Mr A explains that later on that day he realised hed lost his card and attempted  to report  it to 
NatWests fraud team. But being  that it was 8:30pm he wasnt able to speak to anyone, and 
only got an automated  response. Mr A says the next day he was checking his online  banking 
when he identified the disputed transaction. He then visited his local branch, reported the 
fraud and cancelled his card. Following advice  Mr A also reported the fraud by making 
contact with the local police and Action Fraud.
Mr As also unhappy with the service he received from NatWest,  he didnt believe they 
demonstrated an understanding of his situation and thought they should have a fraud  
department open longer hours. 
NatWest investigated  Mr As complaint and decided not to refund  the disputed  transaction.  It 
said there was no evidence of fraudulent activity and thought  that Mr A had authorised  the 
withdrawals because:
Mr As genuine card and PIN were used
There was no explanation as to how an opportunistic fraudster could have obtained  
Mr As PIN
NatWest however apologised for the level of service not being  up to their usual standard. 
Mr A didnt agree with NatWests decision and referred his complaint to our service.  In 
particular he said that the bank should  have obtained the CCTV evidence, it isnt fair they 
relied on there not being a PIN compromise and the withdrawal was carried  out 80 miles 
away from his home  address. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think NatWest needed to do 
anymore. In summary he felt unable  to conclude that the withdrawal had been made 
fraudulently and was persuaded that it was most likely authorised by him.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators  opinion. Mr A asked for the answer  to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so the case has been  passed to me. 
Ref: DRN16068542My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr A liable for the disputed withdrawal if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not he made or authorised them  himself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr As genuine  card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold him liable. So I also need  to think  about  
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr A consented to the 
withdrawals being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude  that Mr A 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were carried  out using Mr As genuine card and PIN but 
theres no convincing  explanation for how a third party could have known  his PIN. 
Mr As explained that he carried out an ATM transaction  using chip and PIN  the 
day before the disputed  transaction.  But, the evidence Ive seen doesnt support this. 
According to the audit  trail Ive seen  from NatWest the last chip and PIN transaction  
Mr A carried  out  prior to the disputed transaction  was on the 7 May, three days 
prior to the disputed  withdrawal. I think its unlikely that a fraudster observed Mr As 
PIN on the 7 May 2018 before  following him and obtaining his card on the 9 May, 
after Mr As last genuine transaction.
No balance enquiries were carried out at any of the cash  machines, so the person 
using the card must have known how much money  was available.
It seems  unlikely  that a fraudster  would wait until the following day to start using 
Mr As card or stop trying to use the card whilst there were  funds  still available  
Mr A says that he lost his card on the 9 May 2018 and he attempted to contact 
NatWests fraud  team after 8pm, when the fraud team closed.  It seems  surprising 
that Mr A didnt attempt  to cancel his card online,  phone the bank the next morning 
when the fraud team  was open  or visit the branch  until after the disputed  transaction  
at 11:45am.  
Mr As explained that hes disappointed  NatWest didnt allow him access  to the CCTV 
footage, and hes confident this will evidence  he didnt  carry out the withdrawal. 
Its possible that CCTV might have identified that someone other than Mr A made  the 
withdrawal. But Mr A didnt have to make  the withdrawal personally  in order to be liable for 
them under the relevant rules. He can still be held responsible for it if he authorised the use 
of his card. So even  if CCTV  had been available, looking at all of the evidence in this 
particular case,  I dont think I could be as sure as I would need  to be to say that Mr A wasnt 
involved. 
Ive also considered Mr As other points about NatWests  level of customer service and the 
fact their fraud  line wasnt open  at the time he called. NatWest  offered an apology  for the 
level of service they provided, and I havent  seen  any evidence that the service Mr A 
received merits further compensation  or directly  caused him a high level of distress. In 
Ref: DRN16068543relation to NatWests  fraud lines, it isnt my role to comment  on how a business runs its 
operation or fraud protection measures. So I wont be offering my opinion  on this. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr A authorised  the disputed  
withdrawal. It follows  that NatWest is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1606854