K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in connection with a loan Mr H used to buy 
electrical goods in 2002. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave him clear  enough  
information about the policy. I say this because the policy wouldnt pay disability benefit in 
connection with pre-existing medical conditions. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mr H because he had a medical  condition  which  wouldnt 
have been covered. So he couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything he expected  to 
be covered.
I dont think Mr H would have bought the PPI if hed had enough information about  the 
policy. So, I think Mr H has lost out because  of what the business did wrong.  
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what its said about  the likelihood that 
Mr H wouldve had to claim on the policy in connection with his condition. 
I accept that Mr Hs condition might not have caused him to take time off work before he 
bought the PPI. But keeping in mind the serious nature of his condition, I think Mr H wouldve 
been aware that it couldve caused him to take time off in the future. So I still think its 
unlikely Mr H wouldve bought the policy if hed had better information about it.  
Ref: DRN19696072what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Financial  Insurance Company Limited to 
pay compensation to Mr H in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1969607