K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  wont replace goods that were 
damaged on receipt and that it hasnt applied  a promotional  cashback offer to her account.
background
Mrs C opened a credit account  with Shop  Direct in May 2019. She then used that account to 
order a washing machine and tumble  dryer for her daughter on buy now  pay later terms. 
Mrs C used a 10% discount code  which  reduced  the price  of each of them to £782.99 and 
there was a delivery charge  of £6.99. But Mrs C says that the goods were damaged when 
they were received: the tumble  dryer had two large dents on the side and the washing 
machine drawer was damaged.
She contacted Shop  Direct and it said that collection  of the goods could be arranged but that 
the goods couldnt be reordered until the return credit had been applied  to her account.  
Mrs C didnt agree with that and the goods  started  to be used. Mrs C contacted  her local 
council and it contacted Shop Direct on her behalf in August 2018. And Mrs C complained  
that the goods were faulty. Shop Direct referred her to its suppliers helpline  as detailed  in its 
returns policy and terms and conditions.
Shop Direct sent its final response  to Mrs Cs complaint in October 2018 but didnt uphold 
her complaint. An engineer repaired the goods  in December 2018 but Mrs C says that 
theyre still not working properly. So she complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He was of the view 
that this couldve  been resolved in May 2018  if Mrs C had agreed to a collection and reorder.  
He didnt consider  Shop  Directs returns procedure to be unreasonable and he said that he 
was unable to conclude that it had acted incorrectly as it was Mrs Cs choice to start using 
the goods. He said that a cashback  offer wasnt available to Mrs C on these goods and she 
had entered a first order discount  code  of 10% for the goods which reduced the price of 
them from £869.99 to £782.99. And he said that the terms  of the discount code state that it 
cant be used in conjunction with any other offer.
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
her daughter is now left with two faulty  machines and two large  dents up the side of 
the tumble dryer;
there was cashback of £75 per machine when these machines were purchased and 
there was no mention  that it couldnt  be claimed in conjunction  with another offer  
and shes sent screenshots  of the cashback offer;
this has been  a huge inconvenience to her daughter  - who had already returned 
faulty machines  to Shop  Direct  after the washing  machine flooded her kitchen  and 
the tumble dryer  was making slurping noises;  and
its not as easy as returning  the machines without a replacement  in place as her 
daughter had to go weeks without a washing machine and tumble dryer when the 
other goods were  returned as she and her partner  work  fulltime and live in the 
country so getting to a laundrette isnt an easy task.
Shop Direct says that the original offer that it made  to Mrs C remains  available to her  she 
can return the goods and replacements will be sent to her given that the goods  were 
Ref: DRN13449132damaged upon  receipt (and regardless of the connection status)  - but the return  credit would 
still need to be applied to Mrs C's account before the replacement goods  could be ordered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct hasnt  disputed that the goods  were  damaged when they were delivered or that 
theyre now faulty. It has offered to arrange a collection  of the goods but says that they cant 
be reordered until the return credit has been  applied to Mrs Cs account. It says that thats in 
accordance with its terms and conditions which were accepted by Mrs C when she opened 
her account  in May 2018. I consider that Shop  Direct  has complied with its terms and 
conditions and Im not persuaded that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in connection 
with the return  of the goods. 
The goods  have been used but Shop Direct  says that its original offer to Mrs C is still 
available to her and that she can return the goods  and replacements will be sent to her when 
the return credit has been applied to her account.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances.  
Mrs C has referred  to issues  that her daughter has had with other goods that were bought 
from Shop  Direct. But those goods werent  bought  by Mrs C using this account with Shop 
Direct and the issues arising from those goods werent included in Mrs Cs original complaint 
 so Im unable to consider them in this decision.
Mrs C says that as well as the 10% discount  that was applied  to the two goods,  she was 
entitled to £75 cashback on each  of them and shes provided screenshots  of the goods  from 
Shop Directs website which say claim cashback. But Shop  Direct says that cashback 
wasnt available to Mrs C on the goods  that she bought. And it says that Mrs C had entered 
a 10% new customer discount  code for this order and that its terms and conditions say that 
the offer cant be used  in conjunction  with any other  offers.  Im not persuaded that Mrs C has 
provided enough evidence to show that she was entitled to £75 cashback  on each of the 
goods  and even if cashback  had been available to her I consider it to be clear that she 
entered a discount code which couldnt be used  in conjunction with any other offers.  So Im 
not persuaded that Shop Direct has acted incorrectly in connection with the cashback 
claimed by Mrs C.
Although I sympathise with Mrs C (and her daughter) for the issues that theyve had with the 
goods, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Shop Direct to replace 
them, to credit any cashback to Mrs Cs account  or to take any other action in response to 
her complaint. If Mrs C now wants to accept Shop Directs  offer to collect  the goods  and re-
order them  when the return credit has been  applied to her account  she should contact Shop 
Direct.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN13449133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1344913