K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that a caravan he financed through an agreement with Black  Horse Limited 
(Black Horse) was not of satisfactory  quality.  Hed like to be given the option  to reject the 
caravan and end his agreement or be given  a satisfactory replacement.
background
Mr O took receipt of a new caravan in early  2017.  He financed the arrangement  through a 
hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse. The balance of just under £35,000 was to be 
repaid over the next ten years.
He stayed in the caravan until the winter park closure but when he returned in April 2018 he 
was disappointed to find the lounge  roof had blistered and there was mould in the bathroom 
on the roof lining. 
He complained to Black  Horse and an independent inspection  was arranged. The inspector 
said the mould was a natural occurrence and could be avoided  by ventilating  the area better 
and by the use of cleaning  products. He didnt think there was anything  wrong  with the 
caravan that could  be suggested to have  caused  this issue.  But he did think the blistering to 
the ceiling  had been caused by a manufacturing  fault that was allowing water  to get in.
So Black Horse agreed to repair the roof and they offered Mr O £75 to compensate him for 
any distress the issue had caused  him. But Mr O wasnt happy with their offer. He thought he 
could expect more  from a new caravan and he wanted Black Horse to allow  him to reject it 
and cancel his credit agreement. This was something they werent  prepared  to do. 
So Mr O referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his view. He 
wasnt persuaded that there was evidence  the mould Mr O had noticed had been caused by 
a fault with the vehicle. But he did think there  was clear evidence the lounge ceiling leak had 
been caused by a manufacturing fault. He explained that Black Horse had an obligation to 
supply Mr O with a product that was of satisfactory  quality and this product clearly wasnt.  He 
said, in those circumstances,  Black Horse would  need to repair  the caravan. But he noted  
that since Mr O had submitted his complaint  hed decided  to voluntarily terminate his 
agreement with Black Horse and he no longer had the caravan. So he couldnt ask Black 
Horse to effect a repair and he didnt think it would be reasonable to ask them to write off the 
amount outstanding on the agreement. Instead  he thought  Black  Horses offer of £75 to 
compensate Mr O for the inconvenience  hed experienced was sufficient in the 
circumstances.
But Mr O disagreed. He thought Black  Horse should  pay off the outstanding debt or supply  
him with a suitable  alternative.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN17748492Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the caravan faulty at the point of supply?
Mr O acquired  his caravan under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant  law says that the 
caravan should  have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Black Horse  
is responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
Here the independent  inspector, who is an expert in these matters, has said the mould in the 
bathroom had been caused  by poor ventilation  and couldnt reasonably be suggested to 
have been a fault that was present at the point of supply. Im persuaded by the independent  
inspectors view that this is the case.
He goes on to suggest the roof leak was caused by a manufacturing  fault and was likely  to 
be developing at the point of sale. So I think its clear the fault was there  from the point of 
supply and Black Horse would therefore  need to take some action.
But legislation doesnt require Black Horse to provide a replacement vehicle or end the 
finance agreement  in these circumstances. It allows them one opportunity  to repair  the fault 
and return the caravan  to the satisfactory condition Mr O was entitled  to expect of a new 
product.
But here, as Mr O has now voluntarily terminated  his agreement with Black Horse, hes no 
longer the keeper of the caravan. So Black Horse cant resolve Mr Os complaint by 
rectifying the problem  and Mr O is no longer experiencing  difficulties with the caravan  as he 
hasnt got it. 
That leaves me to consider what impact this has had on Mr O. Mr O says he first noticed the 
leaking roof when the caravan park reopened in April 2018. He reported the leaking roof on 
12 April 2018. It appears hed had a trouble free stay throughout the previous year. The 
independent inspection was completed  on 10 May shortly after he complained. The 
inspector noted  in his report that, whilst he accepted there  was a leak,  there  was no moisture 
present at the time of inspection. Mr O then voluntarily terminated  his agreement  with Black 
Horse in June. So theres  been some disruption  to Mr O as hes had a blistered caravan roof 
lining but I think  the disruption has been relatively  modest and has been reviewed without 
unnecessary delay. In the circumstances, I think Black Horses  offer of £75 to compensate  
him for this inconvenience is sufficient and I wont be asking them  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN17748493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1774849