K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) was irresponsible to lend him money he 
couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Myjar provided six loans  to Mr M - heres  a table  showing loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 10/11/2015 01/12/2015 1 £100.00 £117.60
2 10/01/2016 30/06/2016 6 £1,500.00 £427.88
3 19/08/2016 26/09/2016 3 £300.00 £166.52
4 25/10/2016 29/03/2017 6 £1,650.00 £513.94
5 29/04/2017 24/04/2018 12 £1,850.00 £283.48
6 24/04/2018 30/04/2019 12 £1,850.00 £289.17
Mr M has repaid all the loans. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ms complaint. She thought  Myjar shouldnt  have provided 
loan 6 to Mr M and set out the steps  she said Myjar should take to put things right.   
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr M said that after the first three loans, his use of 
such large credit loans over 12 months and shouldve clearly  shown Myjar he was in 
financial difficulty and prompted  Myjar to carry out further checks.  Mr M told us his credit 
score shouldve been too low, he was in a debt management plan and he was clearly reliant 
on payday loans   so further checks shouldve stopped Myjar accepting him for more  loans. 
Myjar didnt agree with our adjudicators  view.  It mainly said that the checks it carried  out 
were proportionate and it wasnt certain  that our adjudicator had considered everything.  
The complaint comes to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN13832722But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Myjar told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M to provide details 
of his income and to tell Myjar what he normally spent  each  month  including  what  he paid 
towards any other credit arrangements he had set up. Myjar carried  out checks on Mr Ms 
credit file. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks and they dont show anything that I think 
should reasonably have  made Myjar think loans 1, 2 and 3 werent affordable  for Mr M.
The repayments that Mr M had agreed to make on these loans looked comfortably 
affordable compared  to the income  that hed declared to Myjar. So given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, and his borrowing 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing loans 1, 2 and 3. It looks like Mr M accepts  what our adjudicator has said 
about the first three loans  so I dont think I need to say more  about these.
I do think Myjar should have looked  further into Mr Ms circumstances when he took out 
loan 4, given the substantial amount and the big increase in the loan size  especially as he 
took out this loan within a month or so of repaying  loan 3.
Ref: DRN13832723However, I havent seen  anything  in the information  available to me which  shows  Myjar 
would have decided  not to agree this loan had it done so. Whilst it looks  like Mr M had at 
least one other outstanding  high cost loan when he took out loan 4, even  if Myjar had 
checked and found out about this information, I havent seen enough to make  me think  that 
Myjar shouldnt have  provided loan 4 to Mr M. 
And when  he took out loan 5 with Myjar, the information Ive seen  doesnt  show that Mr M 
had any other high cost loan outstanding  at that point  and Mr M hasnt provided me with 
anything else to make me think that loan 5 was likely to be unaffordable for him. 
According to the information that Myjar had gathered about his circumstances and the 
figures Mr M provided to Myjar,  the repayments  on loans 4 and 5 looked affordable. So 
I havent seen  enough to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint that Myjar shouldve seen 
these loans were unaffordable and not lent loans 4 and 5 to him. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  like the adjudicator, I think  that this point 
was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
by now, Myjar ought to have realised Mr M was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr M had been borrowing more or less continuously from Myjar since 
November 2015 and generally  taking  loans for increasing amounts.  
Mr M took out loan 6 the same  day he paid loan 5  and borrowed the same  amount 
as the loan hed just paid back  
Myjar ought to have realised it was likely  that Mr M was having  to borrow  further  to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances 
hed now been borrowing  from Myjar for more than two years.  So when Mr M asked 
for loan 6, I think Myjar ought to have known that he wasnt  likely borrowing to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably. Mr Ms first loan was for £100 
and loan 6 was for £1,850   significantly  more  than hed borrowed when he took out 
his first Myjar  loan. 
Mr M wasnt making any inroads  to the amount he owed Myjar. He had paid large 
amounts of interest to service debt to Myjar over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out when Myjar gave him loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mr Ms ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN13832724So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loan 6.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do 
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 6, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr M which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr M the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B".
D.The number of loans  taken by loan 6 means any information  recorded about loan 6 
is adverse. So Myjar  should remove all entries  about  loan 6 from Mr Ms credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about  loan 6. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1383272