K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy about the residual  value of a car supplied with finance  from Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS). Hes also unhappy about the customer  service he 
received when he write to MBFS.
background 
In September  2014 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered  into a finance agreement  with 
MBFS.
Towards the end of the agreement Mr L visited the supplying dealer with a view to part 
exchanging the car but was unhappy when he was advised that there  was no equity in the 
vehicle.
Mr L is unhappy that the car has depreciated in value by more than he expected. He says he 
entered into the agreement on the understanding that the Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) of 
the car was £16,500. He says he should  only have to pay MBFS the residual  value of the car 
rather than the balloon payment.
Mr L is also unhappy that MBFS denied receiving his letters  of complaint despite these being 
sent by signed for delivery.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained that GFV is the estimated  figure  
outstanding at the end of the finance  term, at which point Mr L could either pay the balance  
or hand the car back  with nothing further  to pay. The investigator also said that MBFS had 
acknowledged that something  went wrong  with the customer service it provided  and felt that 
£50 was fair and reasonable.
Mr L didnt agree. He felt that the term GFV was misleading and still wanted his balloon  
payment to reflect the residual value of the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The GFV is what the finance company guarantees the car will be worth  at the end of the 
finance term, regardless of its true depreciation. At the end of the term the customer  can 
decide whether  to keep the car by paying the balloon payment or hand the car back  or trade 
it in. 
The word  guarantee in the context of GFV doesnt mean that the value of the car is 
guaranteed on the second hand market. This wouldnt  be possible.  It is better described as 
having the value of the car underwritten. Whatever  the car ends up being worth at the end of 
the agreement, the customer can hand  it back without anything further to pay. So the GFV 
helps to protect a customer against the risk from depreciation, because if a car drops  by 
more than anticipated, the finance company will bear any shortfall.
Its always possible that the car might be worth less than the balloon  payment or GFV at the 
end of the term. As Ive explained,  if the car is handed back, the finance  company bear the 
Ref: DRN17153512impact of depreciation. But I appreciate  that this doesnt assist  a customer  whose car has 
depreciated more  than expected and who wishes to keep the car, as Mr L does.
I understand why Mr L feels frustrated.  Hes said that he was lead to believe that the car 
would be worth at least the amount of the balloon payment and possibly more if it was in 
good condition.  But I think its also possible  that Mr L misunderstood what  GFV means.
The reason  why Mr Ls car is worth less than the GFV is depreciation. There are a number of 
factors which can affect or exacerbate depreciation including age and mileage, desirability, 
fuel economy, general condition and market factors such as the introduction  of a new model. 
I appreciate that Mr L has said that his car is in very good condition  with less than average  
mileage. So I can only assume that it is one or more of the other  factors which  have caused  
the car to depreciate more than he expected.
MBFS has said that Mr L has only had the car valued at one dealership so far, so its 
possible that another dealer would  offer more,  or that more could be achieved on a private 
sale.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think there are grounds  to ask MBFS to reduce Mr Ls 
balloon payment. Mr L still has the option of handing the car back  if he wishes.
In relation to the customer service issues, MBFS has acknowledged  that it made a mistake.  
Since this service became involved MBFS has offered compensation of £50 which I think is 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
3 February 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1715351