K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003 during a meeting.  Mr L says Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. I cant be certain  what was discussed when  Mr L applied  for his card 
and PPI but Halifax has sent us a copy of the paperwork available from the time. Mr Ls 
credit card application form had a separate section for PPI with options to take the PPI 
policy, or decline it. The option to take the policy has been  selected and the application  form 
has been signed by Mr L. So with the above  in mind I think  Halifax  made it clear that Mr L 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr L 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled to sick pay when he took out the PPI and had 
some savings. He could also rely on his family  and partner to help make  his repayments if 
he wasnt able to and had a health  insurance policy. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mr Ls sick pay, and for longer. The policy would also have allowed Mr L to keep 
his savings in place to be used towards any other expenses  he may have had. While Mr Ls 
family and partner would have  wanted to help, their ability to would have been  dependent on 
their circumstances at the time, which could have changed. Mr L hasnt  been  able to provide 
details of the health insurance policy he had at the time, but I think  its likely the PPI policy 
would have covered circumstances that his health insurance wouldnt have. Mr L wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover. So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mr L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN10588012my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1058801