K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about the decision of Western  Provident Association Limited (WPA) 
to decline her claim under her employers group healthcare insurance policy.
background
Ms W was a member of her employers group healthcare insurance policy.  The policy, which  
ran from 1 April to 31 March each year, would reimburse Ms W for certain  everyday  medical  
expenses. These included  optical  medical  expenses, for which Ms W could claim up to £300 
each year.
In April 2019, WPA received a claim from Ms W for £300 towards the cost of prescription 
glasses and contact  lenses. WPA declined the claim. It noted that the glasses  and contact 
lenses had actually  been purchased in March 2019  and said the claim therefore needed to 
be considered  under  the policy year ending  on 31 March  2019. It said that Ms W had already 
used up her allowance for optical  benefit  in that policy year.
Ms W complained to WPA. She said it hadnt been made clear in the policy that it was the 
date of purchase which was critical,  as opposed  to the date of the claim. She said that shed 
understood as long as the claim was made  within six months of her purchase,  it would be 
eligible.
WPA wouldnt change its position.  Ms W therefore  referred her complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He acknowledged that 
WPA, by declining  the claim, had acted in accordance  with the policys  terms and conditions. 
However, he was satisfied that Ms W hadnt sought to gain any advantage and had simply 
misunderstood the policy. He believed that if shed realised the claim would be declined,  she 
simply would  have  waited  a couple  of weeks for her policy to renew  before making the 
purchase. He thought that, on a fair and reasonable basis,  WPA should pay the claim.
WPA didnt accept the investigators  findings. It didnt see why it had acted wrongly  by 
following the terms of the policy. It said that it was required by the policyholder, Ms Ws 
employer, to apply  these terms consistently  across  all policyholders  and said that to do 
otherwise would create administrative  difficulties, as well as tax complications and potential 
resentment between  employees of the policyholder. It said it would pay Ms W the £300 so 
she wouldnt  lose out, and that this was irrespective of the outcome of the case. But it 
wanted an ombudsman  to decide whether it had been at fault.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
It appears that this decision is academic  because WPA has agreed to pay Ms W £300 and 
this effectively resolves her complaint. I dont  consider it is necessarily an appropriate  use of 
this organisations  resources  to issue a decision once a complaint has already  been  
resolved. However,  since WPA  has requested it, let me confirm that in my opinion  this 
complaint should  not be upheld.
Ms W is entitled  to £300 of optical benefit per year.
The policy document states:
Ref: DRN19654242We will pay up to the amount shown  on your benefit table per Scheme Year
The policy document, under the heading How to make a claim, further states:
We will pay in line with the rules that were in place on the day of your treatment - not on the 
date your condition  was first noticed or diagnosed
Send the completed  [claim] form to  You'll need  to include any original receipted  invoices  
from within six months of the treatment  date. We will only pay up to the receipted  amount, 
even if your treatment does not use the maximum amount of the benefit available  to you at 
that time  All invoices must  Show  a description  of the treatment  given which includes 
dates and the amount paid.
Although it is not explicit and could arguably be made clearer,  I consider the policy strongly 
implies that a claim will be assigned to the policy  year in which the treatment was received or 
(as in the case of Ms W) the purchase  was made.  This means  that Ms Ws claim fell in the 
policy year ending on 31 March 2019. Given that Ms W had already  used  up her optical 
benefit for that policy year,  I consider  that WPA was entitled under the terms of the policy  to 
decline the claim.
Our investigator nonetheless considered that Ms W had clearly  made  an error and if shed 
realised the claim wouldnt have been payable  she would  simply have  delayed  her purchase 
by a couple of weeks.  On a fair and reasonable basis, he therefore considered that WPA 
should pay the claim. 
While I agree with the investigator that Ms W had simply made  an error and I understand the 
reasoning behind his recommendation, I disagree  that WPA should  have  to pay the claim. It 
was unfortunate  for Ms W that she made  her error  but it wasnt unfair  for WPA to decline her 
claim. WPA  may have  chosen to exercise  its discretion and pay Ms Ws claim but I dont 
consider that I could  reasonably compel it to do so. And WPA has raised valid points about 
the difficulties  it could create if a group policy is administered  in an inconsistent  way.
So, while it appears  that it doesnt  affect the outcome for Ms W who should have already 
received her £300,  I consider that WPA acted fairly when it declined  the claim.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Neither party offered  any comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Ms W nor WPA has commented on my provisional decision,  I see no 
reason to change  that decision. I therefore conclude that WPA acted fairly when it declined  
the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN19654243Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1965424