K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs A are unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with their travel 
insurance claims.
background
While they were abroad one of Mr A and Mrs As suitcases went missing. When it was 
returned to them they reported that a number  of items were missing so they put in a claim for 
these items.  As part of submitting  the claim Mr A provided photographs of some of the items. 
AXA declined his claim as it said the photographs suggested Mr A still had the items  after 
the date he reported them missing.
Unfortunately Mrs A had a fall while they were  abroad and injured her back. Mr A asked for 
AXA to fly them both home early in upgraded seats,  so Mrs A could properly  rest her back. 
AXA said it would arrange this, if it was medically  necessary, so it arranged  for Mrs A to see 
a local doctor. Following this appointment it was suggested Mrs A may need an MRI, which 
meant shed need  to travel around five hours  to a hospital in the city. AXAs  medical team 
confirmed Mrs A should have an MRI before  she flew home, to be sure the flight wouldnt 
cause additional  damage and to rule out any need for immediate treatment.
Mr A didnt agree with AXA as he said Mrs A wouldnt be able to make the journey due to the 
pain and discomfort she was in. However  AXA confirmed the MRI was medically  necessary. 
And as Mr A and Mrs A needed  to travel to this city to be able to fly home, it felt the journey 
was inevitable, so it made  sense for Mrs A to have the MRI before any flights were arranged. 
Mr A disagreed and didnt  go ahead with the MRI, so AXA stopped providing assistance to 
him and Mrs A.
Mr A and Mrs A are unhappy that their claim for the missing items hasnt been paid and that 
AXA didnt assist  them in getting home early from their trip. Our investigator looked into their 
claims but didnt think AXA had done anything  wrong. So Mr A asked for an ombudsman to 
reconsider the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether AXA has fairly  assessed  Mr As claim for the items he says were  
missing from his suitcase when it was returned to him. 
AXA declined Mr As claim as some of the photographs he provided  of the missing items 
were taken after the date he says the items were stolen (proved by the metadata  from the 
photographs). It declined the whole  claim for missing baggage as it said Mr A hadnt 
provided legitimate  evidence to support his claim.
Mr A has since said that in error he didnt make it clear that the photographs  were not of the 
actual items  lost, but sent to be representative  example of the type of item lost. And hes 
also said that his children submitted the photographs, but failed to make it clear  they were of 
similar items, not the actual items. 
Ref: DRN14574202Ive listened to Mr As call with AXA after he submitted the claim, where he discusses the 
items missing from the suitcase. The AXA representative explains hes provided 
photographs and Mr A says he remembers sending these in. The conversation  goes:
AXA: These are all photographs of things that were  missing  from your suitcase?
Mr A: Yes, thats correct
AXA: Ok
And then later in the call the representative  asks Mr A how he happens to have photographs 
of the items that have been stolen. He then explains that:
We have photographs of hundreds of things in our house. Because sometimes, 
imagine something is stolen from your house,  you dont know how to describe this in 
plain English, what sort of dress it was. So I have  photographs, like you know  the 
photographs which  you see, hmmm, that was on a wedding, which was my sisters, 
sisters sons wedding
At the end of the call Mr A says:
Because thats what you do, you take photographs of your things to keep them safe 
and thats it, thats  your photographs
Ive considered Mr As testimony that he made  an error and wasnt  clear about what the 
photographs were.  But reviewing what was said between AXA and Mr A during the initial 
claims process, it seems he was quite clear  that the photographs were of the items  taken.  
And I consider the conversation in this call gave Mr A the opportunity to explain to AXA the 
situation he has since described to our service. As he didnt do this, I cant say AXA has 
unfairly declined  his claim.
I appreciate Mr A has since sought  to clarify the situation. However as this new information 
contradicts what was originally said and only came  up after the clam was declined,  I dont 
think AXA needs to reconsider  his claim.  So Im not directing  it to do anything  further  in 
relation to Mr As claim for the items  missing  from his suitcase.
In relation to Mr A and Mrs As medical claim, Ive reviewed the claim notes from when Mr A 
spoke to AXA. These set out that, following her fall, AXA wanted to transfer Mrs A to a larger 
hospital in the city for further  testing  before she could fly home.  Mr A wanted Mrs A to be 
flown home straight away in a business  class seat and for her to receive any further  
testing/treatment in the UK. Hes explained that he didnt want  his wife to be treated  abroad 
as he was concerned  for his wifes safety  and the quality of care shed receive. He also 
didnt want her making the long journey to the city with a back injury. But AXA has set out 
that its medical professionals confirmed Mrs A needed  to have further tests before it could 
confirm she was fit to fly. And it wasnt willing to allow her to fly without these tests as, due to 
the nature  of her injury;  it was concerned  flying could cause additional damage.  AXA has 
also set out that Mr A and Mrs A needed  to fly home from this city, so the journey was 
always required.
I appreciate Mr As concerns, but AXA has a duty of care to its customers when providing 
cover. And the terms of the policy set out that if you act against  AXAs  medical advice then it 
wont provide cover.  This term is clearly  presented  in the documentation  and common place 
in travel insurance policies. Mr A and Mrs A wouldnt travel  to the city for further testing, so 
AXA ceased  to provide  any cover  to them. As this is in line with the policy  terms, I cant  say 
Ref: DRN14574203AXA has done anything  wrong. If Mr A wanted  AXA to provide cover, he needed  to follow  the 
medical advice its team  were giving him. I understand  that Mrs A thankfully hadnt  broken 
her back  and that by being seen in the UK Mr A was diagnosed  with a condition  himself. But 
this doesnt mean AXA acted unfairly  by asking  for Mrs A to get tests before she flew home.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1457420