K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mrs G about  
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt  need to pay back  any of the commission  Mrs G 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has offered  to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI, 
so I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ref: DRN11062512I think BoS made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because BoS has provided a copy of Mrs Gs credit card application  
from the time. Looking  at this I can see there  is a printed cross in the box next to the 
words: Credit Card  Repayments Cover. Im mindful that the cross  is printed and not 
handwritten. But so is the rest of the information on the application. And from what we 
know of how sales like Mrs Gs were carried out at this time, the application was printed 
out with the information and answers  to the questions asked during the branch meeting  
including the question about whether PPI was required or not. 
So because Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that things happened differently  in 
Mrs Gs case   she also signed the application  overall  I think  its likely that Mrs G 
chose to take out PPI and did so without  undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs G, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example  Mrs G was eligible  for the cover  
and although she said she was entitled to full sick pay shes  not elaborated further. Im 
mindful too that she didnt have any other means  she could use to make the repayments 
on her credit  card - so she still seems to have had a need for cover. There was also 
nothing about  Mrs Gs employment  or occupation which  would have made it difficult  for 
her to claim. 
Although Mrs G says she had two medical conditions some  time before the policy  was 
taken out I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have  recommended it. I say this because 
the first condition Mrs G mentioned happened  around seven years prior to the sale and 
shes not said things  were ongoing. Because  of this, I dont think  this condition was 
caught by the definition  of a pre-existing condition in the policy terms  it wasnt  
something Mrs G sought advice or treatment for in the 12 months prior to taking out the 
policy.
And its possible the same applies for Mrs Gs second condition because  shes  not been 
precise with the date she suffered with it. But even if I assume it was during the 12 
months leading  up to her taking out the policy, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that 
this was anything  more than a one-off type injury or condition,  which  was cured by 
treatment at the time. Despite this, the policy would only have excluded this condition if it 
returned within the first twelve months  of cover.
So taking everything into account, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended PPI to Mrs G. 
I accept its possible  the information BoS gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs G as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was likely  given.  It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs G would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
Ref: DRN11062513While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Gs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  
she would have  still thought she had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Gs representative has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Gs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Gs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about  this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN11062514In summary  they have  said Mrs G should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell Mrs G about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mrs G wouldnt  have taken out the policy  had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Gs case  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mrs G about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont  think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mrs G unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Mrs G back any of the commission  she paid for the 
PPI.  But in any event  BoS has offered to give back to Mrs G some  of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs G as if it had treated her unfairly.  So I dont think it needs  to do anything 
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Gs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mrs G paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G. Bank  
of Scotland plc should now make arrangements to pay Mrs G if it hasnt done  so already.
Ref: DRN11062515Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1106251