K820x#14complaint
Ms L has complained  about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with a 
third party claim  on her motor insurance  following an accident in 2017.  
Ms L is also unhappy with the liability outcome and the claim being recorded as a fault  on 
her insurance record as she says this is now causing her new insurance  premiums to be 
higher. 
background
Ms L was involved in a car accident with a third party  in 2017. Ms L says she was driving in 
the right hand  lane with the other driver in the left hand lane. Ms L says the other driver cut 
across her car to turn right into a car park.
There was one independent witness to the accident  who wasnt prepared  to say which  driver 
was at fault. Admiral  settled Ms Ls claim on her policy. When  Ms L went  to get a new 
insurance policy she was told her premiums would  be higher as there  was a fault  recorded 
on her record  that she says she was unaware of. 
Ms L then complained  to Admiral about  their general lack of communication. Initially  they 
said theyd settled the third party drivers claim as, in the absence of supporting evidence, 
they felt they couldnt defend Ms Ls version  of events in court. They  also said Admirals  third 
party investigators (B1) told them Ms L wasnt cooperating  with their investigation when 
asked for a further  statement  in 2017. 
In their final response letter Admiral then upheld a number of Ms Ls complaint  points.  They 
accepted that there was a lack of communication between Admiral  and their legal 
representative (B2), that there was a lack of communication  from Admiral  to Ms L and that 
the liability outcome  possibly  may have been  different if all the evidence had been fully 
considered. 
Ms L had also complained  that Admiral asked  for a further £762.54 almost  two years after 
the accident for the remainder of her insurance  premiums. In their final response letter 
Admiral then wrote off the remaining amount  theyd  requested from Ms L. 
Admiral also made an award of £100  to Ms L for trouble and upset caused by how they had 
communicated with her.
Ms L wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ls complaint.  They felt that, on balance, the claim had been 
recorded correctly  as a fault claim on Ms Ls record and, even if Admiral had properly 
handled their investigation, there was no guarantee that the claim would have been recorded 
differently. 
Ms L didnt  accept our investigators findings. In particular, Ms L felt that shed been told by 
Admiral that theyd settled  the liability as they did because she wasnt in contact  with a third 
party legal representative on behalf of them. 
Ms L again said that Admiral hadnt  requested evidence such  as CCTV that could have 
shown what happened  during the accident and if they had sufficiently investigated, the 
Ref: DRN12889002outcome would have  been different. The complaint  has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ms L has raised  a number of 
complaint points Ill include headings below  for ease. 
The communication between Admiral  and Ms L.
Ms L has said that when  B1 contacted her a year after the accident  asking  for a further 
statement she referred them back to Admiral as theyd already taken a statement. Admiral 
later explained  that the more detailed statement was needed to be court  compliant, as at 
that point theyd made the decision to defend the litigation that had been  started  by the third 
party insurer. 
A note on Admirals system from 22 June 2018 states  that B1 notified Admiral that Ms L 
hasnt been co-operativeso has prejudiced our positon so they will have  to settle the claim 
on the best termsthey havent been  able to get the ph statement  so will have to continue 
on and settle third party claim. 
In their final response letter Admiral have  said that during a phone call on 3 May 2018 
between Ms L and B1 they informed  her that if she was not willing for B1 to obtain a 
statement then they would not be able to defend the litigation.  As I havent heard the phone 
call, I dont know how clear this was made to Ms L. 
There were a number of other communication problems  and Ive noted that Ms L moved 
address at some point  after her accident. Admiral  has said that in a phone call between  them  
and Ms L on 7 June  2017, Ms L asked  for any correspondence by email as shed moved 
address. Admiral has also accepted that during the same phone call they incorrectly advised 
Ms L that the third party insurer had accepted liability. 
Overall, the communication from Admiral was far from satisfactory and below what she 
would have expected. For example, I think that Admiral should have clearly  updated  Ms L 
when they decided to settle the third party  claim. But I think the £100 offer that Admiral  paid 
to Ms L as an acknowledgement of the poor customer service  is fair and reasonable. 
Admiral requesting Ms Ls remaining premiums two years after the accident
Admiral has accepted that there  was an error requesting the premiums  so long after the 
accident. If an insured  customer  normally pays for their insurance by a monthly premium, the 
insurer can, fairly, still ask for the remaining  premiums. In this case  Admiral  waived the 
remaining premiums after Ms L complained and I think thats fair as its not something that 
they had to do. 
Should Admiral have obtained the evidence Ms L has referred to as part of its investigation?
Ms L says that Admiral should have properly  investigated the claim and evidence that she 
says would have  backed up her recollection  of the accident, for example CCTV footage from 
a nearby pub. 
Ref: DRN12889003In a phone  note from 30 May 2017 (immediately  following the accident)  Admiral advised 
Ms L to send in CCTV footage for their liability team to review.  On the same day a text 
message was sent to Ms L asking her to send  any images of the accident that she had. It 
seems that Ms L did send  some images  to Admiral but not CCTV. 
Admiral werent obliged to request the CCTV, so they havent acted unfairly - as frustrating 
as this has been for Ms L. Ive also seen evidence that Admiral did request some evidence - 
such as the police report but were  advised  that none  was available  - only a log of the 
accident. So Admiral  didnt have to request the evidence  that Ms L says would have backed 
up her recollection of the accident. 
But would more  evidence  have made  a difference?
A call note from 14 September 2017  states that Admiral was potentially considering a 50/50 
liability admission based on the evidence held on file. This was for a number of reasons  
including the independent  witness no longer cooperating. 
I think that if Admiral had fully considered all of the evidence such as the potential CCTV 
footage that Ms L says was available,  its a possibility that there  may have  been  a different 
outcome. 
But on the other hand, I dont know what the CCTV footage would have shown. There were  
also no independent witnesses that could  support  Ms Ls account  and both drivers disputed 
what happened. 
So, even if the CCTV had supported Ms Ls recollections of the accident, unless Admiral  
were then able to fully recover  their costs from the other  party, the accident would still have 
been recorded as a fault claim. On balance I cant  fairly  say that there  would have been a 
different outcome - aside  from possibly  a different liability  split (please see below).  
How the claim  has been  recorded
Claims are known  as fault claims when an insurer hasnt recovered all its costs  in dealing 
with the claim. This is important as an insurer recording a claim as fault doesnt always 
mean that the insured  party is fully or partly  responsible for the claim thats been made  just 
that the insurer hadnt been able to recover the money its paid out. 
So, even though the claim has been  recorded as fault,  this doesnt mean that Ms L is at 
fault for the incident. And even if this claim had been settled 50/50 or even 90/10 it would 
still be known as a fault claim  as Admiral wouldnt have recovered  all of its costs. 
On balance, I think that Admiral acted  fairly  and reasonably in line with the terms and 
conditions of this policy. 
Although Ms L feels that the actions of Admiral have  led to her now being quoted more for a 
new insurance policy, for the reasons  Ive already explained  I still think that its more likely 
than not that this claim would still have been recorded as a fault  on Ms Ls insurance record 
and her premiums would likely still have increased as a result  regardless of the liability  split.  
Complaint about  B2
Whilst I have considered the customer service that Admiral has provided Ms L with as a 
result of their lack of clear communication with B2, I cant consider the actions of the third 
Ref: DRN12889004party, B2, working  on behalf of Admiral. Our service cant  consider complaints about  B2 due 
to the nature  of our remit  as they arent a financial business. 
Admiral set up a complaint with B2 on Ms Ls behalf  and provided  Ms L with the details of 
the relevant bodies that complaints can be registered with for B2. 
Summary
Having carefully considered all of the evidence I dont uphold this complaint and dont  
require Admiral to do anything further  to compensate Ms L. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1288900