K820x#14complaint
Miss J has complained that Mortgage Intelligence  Ltd mis-sold  her a life and income  
protection policy. Miss J said she believed  the policy also included critical illness cover. 
background
Miss J met with one of Mortgage Intelligences  advisers, who Ill call Mr W, in 2013 to 
arrange a mortgage and associated insurances.  During the course of their discussions 
Miss J was recommended,  and applied for, a policy with an insurer Ill call L. The policy 
provided her with level life protection for the duration  of the mortgage life and income 
protection cover until she turned 60 years  of age. 
Miss J was sadly  diagnosed with cancer. She contacted L to make a claim but was 
disappointed to learn that her policy didnt include critical illness  cover. 
A representative acting  on Miss Js behalf,  who Ill call M, complained  the policy  had been  
mis-sold and that Mortgage Intelligence had failed to carry out her instructions. Miss J says 
she had a need for critical illness cover and believed this is what shed been sold.  
Mortgage Intelligence reviewed the documentation from the time of the sale and noted  that 
while Miss J had noted critical illness cover was a need at the time,  it had evidence  that 
shed contacted Mr W on 12 July 2013  asking that cover be put in place for life and income 
protection cover only. It therefore didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. 
M disagreed  and referred a complaint to our service. It said Miss J disputed having a 
conversation in July 2013 to remove the critical illness benefit from the policy.  One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint but didnt agree  the policy had been mis-sold. He was 
satisfied the evidence showed  Miss J had decided not to proceed with critical illness cover.  
He was also persuaded the documents sent to Miss J by L showed that the cover didnt 
include critical illness cover. 
M disagreed  and asked  that the case be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision. 
M explained  that Miss J disagreed with the investigators opinion  that the notes from the time 
of the sale were more  persuasive than her recollection of events. She maintains that critical 
illness cover  was very important to her.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator.  I know  this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss J, so Id like to explain how Ive reached  this conclusion.  
As I wasnt present at the meeting where  the policy was sold,  or during the subsequent 
conversations, I have to consider all the available  evidence  to decide what  I consider is more 
likely to have happened. This includes both the documentary evidence  and Miss Js 
recollection of events. 
The available documentary evidence from the time of the sale supports that Miss J had 
identified a need for critical illness cover.  As a result  of this, Mr Ws initial recommendation 
was for life and critical illness protection. M has provided me with evidence that an 
Ref: DRN17396322illustration was produced  by Mr W on 1 July 2013. The illustration  sets out that the 
recommended life and critical illness protection would cost Miss J £41.08 a month. 
Mortgage Intelligence has provided evidence  that after this illustration was produced Miss J 
contacted Mr W to ask that the policies be amended to only cover life and income  protection. 
I understand Miss J denies this conversation took place.  Unfortunately Mortgage Intelligence 
has been unable  to provide any further evidence, for example  a recording of the 
conversation, to prove the conversation took place or what  was discussed. So I have to 
decide if I think its more  likely than not that the conversation took place. Having thought  
carefully about this, Im persuaded it did. 
I note that on 18 July 2013  a second illustration was produced for life cover  and income 
protection cover. This showed the policy would cost £33.99 a month. On the same day a 
second system note shows Miss J agreed to proceed with life and income protection  cover  
only. I think its highly unlikely Mr W wouldve produced an additional quote unless hed 
spoken with Miss J as the system notes suggest. I think  its also significant that the 
commission Mr W would receive from the sale of the policies reduced significantly from the 
first illustration to the second illustration. In the circumstances, thered be no clear  incentive 
for Mr W to sell Miss J less cover than shed  asked for. 
Mr W also wrote to Miss J on 18 July 2013 to set out his recommendations. While I 
appreciate the letter  still sets out that Miss J had identified a need for critical illness  cover, it 
clearly states the only recommendation  hed made  was for life and income  protection  cover.  
Its also recorded in this letter that Miss J had accepted the recommendations. It wouldve 
been advantageous if Mr W had noted  within this letter why his recommendation no longer 
included critical illness cover. But I dont think the absence  of a statement confirming this 
means the policy was mis-sold. 
While an adviser should always consider  a customers needs before making a 
recommendation, it wont always be possible to meet  all their needs. For example cover  may 
prove too expensive,  or the customer may not be eligible for all the cover they want. This 
doesnt make the subsequent recommendation unreasonable. 
 
Ive also taken into consideration  the information  Miss J was sent by L after the policy was 
set up  most notably the policy schedule. Again this clearly sets out that the only cover  
being provided was life and income protection cover. If Miss J believed she was taking out 
critical illness cover I would have expected these documents  to prompt her to make further 
enquiries with either Mr W or L at the time.  Ive seen  no evidence  to suggest she did so. I 
think it wouldve also been  apparent to Miss J that the monthly  premium  she was now paying 
was significantly lower  than shed originally been  quoted for life and critical illness  cover. 
Mortgage Intelligence has also provided  evidence  to show  that Miss J contacted L in 2017 to 
amend the level of her income protection cover.  Following  this a new policy  schedule  was 
issued to her, which again showed that her policy only provided life and income protection 
cover. 
I dont doubt that it must have been very worrying for Miss J to discover she didnt have 
critical illness cover at a time she would  have needed it most. And I dont dispute she may 
genuinely have  believed her policy did provide this cover. But having carefully considered all 
the evidence I dont think Mortgage Intelligence  or Mr W were responsible for Miss Js 
misunderstanding. Im satisfied, on the balance, that Mr W provided a reasonable 
Ref: DRN17396323recommendation based on Miss Js stated needs  and requirements at the time. So I dont 
believe the policy was mis-sold and I wont be asking Mortgage Intelligence to do anything 
further in this case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Lisa De Noronha
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1739632