K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  provided poor service,  caused damage 
to her home, and left her without water  when she sought assistance for a water leak under  
her insurance policy. She is unhappy  with the amount of compensation she was offered.
background
Miss J has a British Gas insurance  policy. Amongst other things, the policy covers repairs to 
the plumbing at her home.  Miss J was informed by her water supplier that she appeared to 
have a leak at her property, so she contacted  British  Gas for assistance. 
British Gas has outlined  the following timeline:
3 November 2018  Miss J contacted  British  Gas.
5 November 2018  British Gas attended  and confirmed the water supply pipe was 
leaking, but further work was needed to find the leak.
21 November 2018  British Gas carried out a leak detection test, but the leak 
couldnt be found.
27 November 2018  British Gas carried out a further leak detection  test, and the 
leak was found.
30 November 2018  British Gas attended  to assess how best to re-route the 
affected pipework.
7 December 2018  the pipework re-route was started,  and a temporary  repair was 
completed to provide  a water supply to the utility  sink and washing machine.
9 December 2018  the temporary  repair failed causing water damage  to Miss Js 
utility room and conservatory. British Gas attended  and completed  a further 
temporary fix.
14 December 2018  British Gas completed the permanent re-routing works; and 
took pictures of the water damage caused  by the failed  temporary repair.
2 January 2019  British Gas contacted Miss J to apologise  for the error  that had led 
to the water damage, and for the delays. British Gas also confirmed it would arrange 
for the damage  to be repaired and pay for any items damaged.
Miss J also says British Gas turned her water  off on the 27 November and the repairs were  
meant to start on 3 December  but the person who attended on that date couldnt  do the 
work, so this was rearranged for 7 December. Miss J says that she was without a water  
supply for this 11 day period.
Miss J complained about the distress and inconvenience she was caused  highlighting the 
water damage, being without water for 11 days,  and poor service.  British Gas offered her 
£150 to apologise.
Ref: DRN12754012Because Miss J remained unhappy she referred  her complaint to this service,  where  it was 
considered by one of our investigators. British Gas increased its offer to £300, but Miss J 
wasnt prepared to accept  this amount either.  Miss J reiterated that she couldnt shower, 
flush her toilets, or use her washing machine for 11 days. 
Miss J also says she had to do lots of chasing throughout the claim, and promised call backs 
werent received.  She also says her boiler  service couldnt be fully completed during this 
time, because there was no water, so it now needs to be rearranged.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, and he recommended  a total of 
£500 be paid to Miss J for her trouble. Miss J accepted our investigators outcome  but 
British Gas disagreed,  so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
British Gas says Miss J had intermittent  water supply. Our investigator asked Miss J about 
this and she said there was no water  supply during the 11 day period as her water supply 
had been turned off outside her property. Our investigator therefore  asked British Gas to 
clarify what it meant by intermittent supply  but British Gas simply said it did not believe 
Miss J was without water  for an entire  11 days as temporary repairs  had been  made.  In 
respect of the overall timescales, British Gas also highlighted  that a leak detection was 
required and the complex nature of the repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took six weeks for the leak to be fixed from when Miss J reported the issue.  I appreciate 
there were a number  of challenges involved and I accept what British Gas says about the 
complex nature of the repairs. But in my view, there were  also relatively long periods of 
delay between many  of the visits. The policy doesnt commit British Gas to a timescale,  but it 
still needs to progress claims in a reasonable timeframe,  and overall  Im not persuaded that 
always happened here. Miss J had an ongoing  leak, and then no water  supply  and in 
these circumstances  I consider the delays between many of the visits to have been 
unreasonable
I also accept what Miss J says in terms of her chasing and the missed commitments, some 
of which  are supported  by British Gas file. Therefore,  Im also persuaded that there were 
instances of poor service.
British Gas also accepts  the temporary  repairs failed due to its error, and whilst it repaired  
and paid for the resulting  damage  which I understand Miss J is happy with  this 
nonetheless caused her further trouble and upset.
In terms of Miss J being without water for 11 days,  in my view shes  given a credible  account  
of what happened; and British Gas hasnt said anything that leads  me to conclude the water 
wasnt turned off on 27 November. It says temporary repairs gave Miss J access  to water 
during this period  but those repairs werent completed until 7 December. As such, Im 
persuaded Miss J didnt  have any water from 27 November, for 11 days. Im also of the 
opinion that being left without water for 11 consecutive days is unreasonable   and Im 
satisfied this caused Miss J a great  deal of inconvenience, by having  to rely on friends.
Ref: DRN12754013Having thought about the above issues carefully, overall I dont consider £500 compensation 
to be unreasonable. Im more persuaded that £500  fairly acknowledges the level of trouble 
and upset Miss Js experienced. I understand Miss J has already received £150 following 
British Gas first offer  if so, only a further  £350  needs to be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is British  Gas Insurance Limited  should compensate  Miss J a total of £500  
for the trouble and upset  she was caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1275401