K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Bradford & Bingley disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Bradford & Bingley  has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. This is because I think the evidence of the application form shows  that Bradford  & 
Bingley probably  recommended the PPI to Mrs B. But I dont think  it was suitable,  and it 
looks like Bradford & Bingley didnt point out the relevant  restrictions sufficiently clearly. 
I say this because  Mrs B suffered from a medical condition which was connected to 
pregnancy. The existence of a pre-existing medical condition, and also a condition  resulting 
from pregnancy, were both possible reasons why she might not be covered from a likely 
claim under the policy. 
The application form did ask a question about  health  conditions, but it spoke about a 
serious illness and currently suffering from a medical condition. Mrs B has explained that 
the medical condition at the time appeared to be just an effect of pregnancy  so I dont think  
shed have thought it serious and probably wouldnt have understood it to be a condition 
separate from pregnancy. But, in any case, those questions alone  were not enough to point 
out the full effect of the restrictions in the policy. If Bradford & Bingley had properly probed 
Mrs Bs situation, or alternatively if it had properly warned  her of the restriction  in the policy,  I 
think it unlikely Mrs B would have taken the PPI. I think  shed have gone  to get advice on the 
prospect of the condition being long term,  and what this would  mean for her health. (And, as 
it turned  out, it did result  in her having  to take long term medication to deal with the 
condition.) I think, faced  with the uncertainty, shed have decided  the PPI was not worth 
having. 
So it seems  to be that Mrs B has lost out as a result of how Bradford & Bingley sold this 
policy.
fair compensation
Bradford & Bingley  should put Mrs B in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Bradford & 
Bingley should:
Ref: DRN15446442Pay Mrs B the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year until April 1993.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bradford & Bingley  Plc to take off tax from this interest.  
Bradford & Bingley  must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
I require Bradford & Bingley  Plc to pay Mrs B compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1544644