K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about poor claims handling  by Tansar  Holdings Ltd and its claims agent 
(whom Ill together refer to as Tansar) after his car was stolen and suffered damage, and 
he claimed under his motor insurance  policy.
background
In August  2017,  Mr Bs car was stolen from outside his house. The police managed to 
recover the car a few days  later after a tracker fitted to the car was activated. The police then 
retained the car for some  three months until they had completed their forensic  examination.
In November 2017, Mr B arranged for the car to be taken  to a garage  of his choice to be 
repaired. In January 2018 Mr B sent Tansar a claim for reimbursement totalling £3,093.73. 
Tansar didnt accept  the claim in full. It wasnt satisfied that some of the items claimed for 
were payable under the policy, or that some of the damage claimed  for arose  from the theft.
In August  2018  Mr B complained to Tansar about their delays  in dealing with his claim. In 
November 2018  Tansar said it would pay £888.98  of his claim, less his policy excess of 
£500, making £388.98 in all. Mr B didnt  accept this and complained to us.
Two of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and recommended  that it should be 
upheld in part. They  said Tansar should pay a further £232.77 in respect of Mr Bs claim, 
which Tansar agreed to do. However they didnt  agree that Tansar  should reimburse Mr B 
for:
the cost of his years  subscription to the tracking service;
the damaged stereo system;
damage to the key surround; and
damage to the cars  undertrays.
In general they said an insurer was entitled  to satisfy itself that damage  being claimed for 
was covered by the insurance policy. It would  also want to approve proposed  works  before 
they were carried out.
However in this case Mr B had told his garage to carry out the work before getting this 
approved by Tansar. This left Tansar  seeking information after the event  from Mr B and his 
garage, which they hadnt been able to supply. All in all the investigators didnt think there 
had been any unnecessary or unavoidable delays  in the handling of his claim.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
Tansar hadnt explained clearly to him the insurance process, or what would happen 
next at each stage  of the claim;
he had been  dealt with by five different claims handlers and many of his emails 
werent responded to;
Tansar had been slow in requesting  information to substantiate his claim;
he wasnt told that work had to be approved  in advance. On the contrary, he was told 
to take his car to a garage  of his choice  and Tansar would  reimburse  him for all 
damages and costs that were due to the theft;
he was repeatedly told over the phone to get the repairs done, take pictures, and 
keep receipts;
Ref: DRN14950942his car was in near perfect  condition before the theft, and everything he had claimed 
for was the result of the theft;  and
he was specifically told that Tansar would reimburse the cost of re-activating the 
tracker.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing first with the general points Mr B has raised, I have listened to the call Tansar made 
to Mr B on 18 August  2017 to take details of the theft of his car. In it the representative says 
that she will be his point  of contact for the claim, and she makes it clear that he should  get in 
touch with her at any time if he needs  to know anything.
I can see from the claim notes that she remained involved with the claim later on. So I think  if 
he was unsure of anything relating  to his claim at any time he could have spoken to this 
representative.
Mr B says he wasnt told any work  had to be approved in advance. He says he was told to 
carry on and he would  be reimbursed later.  This is contrary to the way insurance companies 
normally operate. For good business  reasons they keep very tight control over repair costs. 
Mr B hasnt produced  any written  evidence to substantiate what he says. So Im not 
persuaded this is what he was told.
Mr B told his garage to carry  out the work  without first getting it approved  by Tansar. Tansar 
then tried to satisfy itself that the relevant work and costs resulted from the theft and were 
reasonable in amount. I dont think Tansar was responsible for unreasonable delays in 
handling the claim.
Tansar has now accepted  Mr Bs claim to the extent of £1,121.75, less his policy excess  of 
£500. For the reasons the investigators have explained, Tansar isnt satisfied  on the 
evidence available  that the damage  to the cars  stereo system, the key surround, and the 
undertrays resulted  from the theft. I dont  think this is an unreasonable  decision on its part.
In relation to the tracker subscription, Mr B says that before he reactivated  it Tansar  
confirmed to him that it would meet this cost. In the phone call between Tansar  and Mr B on 
18 August 2018,  Mr B mentions  that the car has an active tracker which may result in the car 
being recovered. However  nothing  is said about  the subscription for this.
Tansar has searched the other recorded phone calls it has, and those between Mr B and his 
broker, but none of them  contain  any commitment by Tansar to reimburse  this cost. The 
policy wording doesnt cover reimbursement of the tracker  subscription.  So in the absence  of 
evidence of a specific promise by Tansar to reimburse this I cant  require it to do so.
my final decision
Tansar has now agreed to pay Mr B £621.75, being  £1,121.75 less the policy  excess  of 
£500, to settle  the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Tansar  Holdings Ltd should  pay Mr B £621.75.
Ref: DRN14950943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1495094