K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs parents, who have power of attorney over his affairs, complain about  his treatment by 
OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance when  he applied  to move his mortgage to 
another property.
background
Mr G has a lifelong disability which affects  his ability to manage his own finances. He is 
supported and cared for by his parents, who have power of attorney over his affairs, and 
who I will refer to as Mr G senior  and Mrs G.
Mr G lived in owns his own property, supported by visiting care and support. He owned the 
property through  a shared  ownership scheme  with a social housing provider specialising  in 
working with those with additional needs.  Mr G bought his share through  a specialist  
mortgage scheme operated by the former  Kent Reliance Building Society, which  is now 
OneSavings Bank, around 15 years ago. For convenience I will refer to Kent Reliance 
throughout this decision. 
Mr Gs mortgage was taken out on an interest  only basis, and his monthly payments have 
been met in full as part of his entitlement to benefits because of his disability. 
In recent  years, Mr Gs needs have changed and he needed  more  support than was 
available locally. Alternative support  was found for him  which  would again involve living 
independently but close to a facility which could offer more extensive  and specialised 
support for his needs.  He would continue to own his own property through  a shared 
ownership scheme, and the housing association supported the move  it agreed  to sell the 
existing property and buy a new one, which it would then sell a share  of to Mr G. The move  
was also supported both by his family  and by the statutory agencies  involved in his care.
To be able to move to the new property, Mr G needed to be able to port his mortgage from 
the old property  to the new. Because  the new property was more expensive,  because of the 
location of the new support facility, he also needed to increase his borrowing by around  
£65,000. The Department of Work and Pensions confirmed that it would continue  to fund the 
payments on the increased mortgage on the new property in full as part of Mr Gs benefit 
entitlement.
Mr G senior and Mrs G therefore applied to Kent Reliance, on Mr Gs behalf, to port the 
mortgage and increase  the borrowing, allowing Mr G to buy the new property. Kent Reliance 
declined the application. It agreed to port the mortgage, but not to allow  any further 
borrowing.
Mr G senior and Mrs G explored whether any other  lender  would offer Mr G a mortgage in 
this situation.  They  contacted dozens of other lenders, as well as mortgage brokers and 
industry bodies. When they were unable to get lending elsewhere,  they complained that Kent 
Reliance wasnt treating  an existing customer fairly,  and as a result  Mr G was trapped in 
accommodation that was increasingly unsuitable for him. They also complained that they,  
and Mr G, had been offered  very poor customer service, including significant delays, while 
they tried to resolve  the issue.  
Kent Reliance said it no longer offered the scheme  to assist borrowers with disabilities to 
own their own home. It said it would be willing to allow  Mr G to port his mortgage  up to the 
Ref: DRN18558792existing balance. But any new borrowing would be subject to new lending  criteria. As it didnt 
consider non-pension benefits to be acceptable forms of income, Mr Gs application for 
further borrowing  would be declined. It accepted that its handling of the application had been 
poor and though it didnt think compensation was appropriate it offered to send a letter of 
apology.
Our investigator thought Kent Reliance  should have allowed Mr G to port his mortgage, 
including the further borrowing. She also thought  its customer service  was poor. While the 
complaint was with us, Mr G senior  and Mrs G finally managed  to find an alternative 
mortgage for Mr G. So she didnt need  to recommend that Kent Reliance lend to Mr G  but 
her recommendation that it pay Mr G £750  compensation was based on the distress  and 
delay caused  by him having to find alternative lending  when,  she thought, Kent Reliance 
should have lent.
Neither party agreed with that. Mr G senior thought that the compensation didnt reflect  the 
impact on himself and Mrs G, or on Mr G. And he wanted a published ombudsman decision 
to draw attention  to the difficulties of borrowers  in this position. And Kent Reliance was 
prepared to pay £750 compensation, but only on the basis that it was solely  for poor 
customer service,  not because of the impact of its refusal  to lend. As both parties  didnt 
agree, the case comes  to me for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G originally took out his mortgage  as part of a scheme specifically aimed at allowing 
borrowers with disabilities  to access housing and home ownership and to be able to live, 
with support, in the community.
Kent Reliance was part of that scheme  at the time, and it agreed to lend to Mr G.
It no longer offers mortgages  of this type, and so it wasnt willing  to allow  Mr G to move 
house and increase his borrowing. It was willing to allow  Mr G to port his existing balance   
but that wouldnt have been  enough  to enable  Mr G to afford housing near his new support 
facility.
I dont think there was a regulatory bar to Kent Reliance accepting Mr Gs further  borrowing 
application. This mortgage, like all mortgage applications, would need  to comply with the 
regulators rules on affordability and interest  only repayment strategy. 
The regulator requires  lenders to carefully assess affordability, but it doesnt place any 
restrictions on benefit income. Kent Reliance doesnt accept non-pension benefits, but thats 
a matter of internal risk appetite rather than regulatory duty.
And while sale of the property often isnt an acceptable repayment  strategy,  theres no 
absolute bar against it in all circumstances.
In this case, the DWP had confirmed it would  continue to pay Mr Gs mortgage payments in 
full. Given his condition,  I think its very unlikely his benefit entitlement  would substantially  
change in the future. So, in my view, it was open to Kent Reliance to conclude that the new 
mortgage was affordable.
Ref: DRN18558793As regards  repayment  of the capital, there is still a substantial term of the mortgage left. Its 
part of his shared ownership arrangement that the housing association  buys  back Mr Gs 
share of the property  when its no longer needed. I think there was little risk to Kent Reliance 
that the mortgage wouldnt be repaid at the end of the term, in Mr Gs particular 
circumstances.
So I dont  think mortgage regulation should have prevented Kent Reliance from agreeing to 
Mr Gs application. But, saying that Kent Reliance didnt have to refuse it, is not the same 
thing as saying  it should have granted it.
In my view, whether  Kent Reliance should  have agreed the application is a more difficult 
question. Its not a matter of rule, or regulation. Its a matter of whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I dont agree with Kent Reliance that its a matter of commercial 
judgement that goes  beyond the remit of the Financial Ombudsman  Service.  On the 
contrary, it goes to the very heart of what we do  consider whether customers  of financial 
businesses have been treated fairly.
Theres a difficult balance  to be struck  here. It is, within the bounds of fairness  and prudential 
regulation, up to Kent Reliance  who it lends to and what  sorts  of mortgages it offers. Its not 
for me to prescribe  its lending policies, its risk appetite  or to tell it when and how to lend. It 
has, legitimately,  a wide discretion in such matters.
On the other hand, Mr G was an existing customer. While Kent Reliance no longer offers  this 
sort of mortgage, it did so once. Theres a higher standard of fairness, in my view,  due to 
existing customers who already have a mortgage  than to potential customers  making  a 
speculative application.  
And Mr G was in a particularly unusual and difficult situation. Hes a vulnerable person. His 
existing housing, which  without the further  borrowing  he couldnt  leave, was contributing 
to a worsening of his condition and situation.  It was the consensus  of all involved in his care 
that he needed to move, and the sooner the better. 
As Ive said,  a new customer is owed a different  duty and standard  of fairness than an 
existing customer.  This is an unusual mortgage and an unusual  situation. Until late on, none  
of the other lenders Mr G senior and Mrs G contacted were  able to assist either. But Mr G 
wasnt an existing customer,  with a current mortgage, of any of those other lenders. He was 
a customer of Kent Reliance. Kent Reliance could have  helped him by agreeing the further 
borrowing. I think, after very careful consideration and after balancing  fairness to both 
parties, that in this very unusual  situation the impact  on Mr G of being unable to move house 
was such that Kent Reliance should,  acting fairly, have  agreed to lend him the further 
borrowing necessary  for him to do so.
The failure to do so in this case  had a real impact. It delayed Mr G being able to move  by 
several months, and it contributed to the worsening of his situation that had already begun. I 
cant consider the worry caused to Mr G senior  and Mrs G, or the inconvenience as they 
tried over a long period to find another lender. Our rules only allow me to award  
compensation to parties to a complaint, not their representatives. But in light of the evidence  
Mr G senior has given  about the impact that the delay in moving had on Mr G, I think 
compensation to Mr G of £750 is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN18558794my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance to pay Mr G £750 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G senior  and 
Mrs G, on Mr Gs behalf, to accept  or reject  my decision before 22 June 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1855879