K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Gain  Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three loans Lending Stream provided to Mr P between November 
2012 and December 2012.  Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate Taken 
OutInstalmentsDate 
RepaidLoan AmountHighest 
Instalment
1 30/11/2012 6 Outstanding £215.00 £107.50
2 13/12/2012 5 Outstanding £100.00 162.50
3 14/12/2012 5 Outstanding £100.00 217.50
Lending Stream has agreed to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 2 and 3. And from the 
evidence Ive seen  this looks like a fair offer. So, I havent considered  these loans further in 
my decision,  but I have  addressed them when  looking at what Lending  Stream  should do to 
put this right.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint about  loan 1 should be upheld.  Mr P disagreed,  
but he hasnt said why he disagrees, nor has he provided any further evidence. The 
complaint has now been  passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN12217312refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
As Mr P hasnt  provided any more evidence in support of his complaint, Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information already provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. 
why I think Lending Streams checks were proportionate for loan 1
For loan 1 Mr P needed to repay  around £65.00  in December 2012 and make  a maximum 
monthly payment  of £107.50 under the terms of the agreement.  
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr P provided  when he completed his loan application. 
Mr P said he had a monthly income  of £1300 and had regular monthly outgoings  of £1000.  
This left him with a disposable  income of £300  per month  so the repayments appeared to 
be affordable for him. 
As well as requesting  information about Mr Ps income and expenditure Leading Stream also 
carried out a credit check. This showed that Mr P had defaulted  on previous accounts, but 
this was more  than two years prior to his application  for loan 1. There was nothing in this 
credit check  which showed Mr P had recently been  in any financial difficulty. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Lending Stream  was made  aware 
of any financial problems  Mr P mightve  been  having at that time. Or anything that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate Mr P circumstances  further. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to rely on the information  it obtained so early in its lending  relationship.  
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Lending Stream did for this loan 
was proportionate. And I think  its decision  to lend loan 1 was reasonable. Im not upholding 
Mr Ps complaint about this loan, but as I said above  Lending Stream has already agreed to 
uphold the complaint about loans 2 and 3. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
As Lending Stream agrees it shouldnt have given Mr P loans  2 and 3 it should buy these 
loans back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending  Stream  are not 
Ref: DRN12217313able to buy the debts back, then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the 
results outlined below.
A.Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr P 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding  
balance, not including anything you have already refunded.
B.Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr P which  were considered  as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr P 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on 
any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in 
Mr P having made overpayments then you should refund these overpayments  with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Lending Stream should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr P. Lending Stream  shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it 
has already written-off.
E.Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit 
file in relation  to loans 2 and 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about  loan 1, but I agree 
with Lending Streams decision to uphold the complaint  about  loans 2 and 3. Lending Stream  
should put things right as outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1221731