K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc rejected  his Section 75 claim when he 
complained that a car he purchased was not of satisfactory quality.
 
background 
In March 2018 Mr W purchased a car. The purchase was financed by a fixed  sum loan from 
Hitachi.
Mr W discovered wet dirty holes in the foot well of the car. He says these were stuffed with 
paper from the dealership.
Mr W took pictures of the holes and sought advice  from some local garages. He was told 
that the holes  were  most likely to be as a result of a fracture or crack in the floor.
Mr W contacted  Hitachi  and told it hed returned the car to the supplying dealer and that he 
wanted to cancel the finance agreement.
Hitachi told Mr W that cancellation would  have to be agreed by the dealer. It contacted  the 
dealer, who said it had rejected Mr Ws complaint because the issues  were cosmetic.
Hitachi didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. It said the dealer  had tested the car and found no 
water ingress and that as a gesture of goodwill it had replaced the carpets  in the foot well.
Our investigator thought it was plausible that there  was a fracture in the floor of the car. She 
felt that because of this the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality and said Mr W should  be 
allowed to cancel the agreement.
Hitachi didnt agree. It arranged for an independent  inspection of the car which  concluded 
that there  were no holes  in the floor pan other than those made in the process  of the cars 
manufacture. The engineer said that the water  in the foot well had been caused  by a blocked  
scuttle panel which had allowed rain water  to collect in the scuttle which  had in turn 
ingressed into the car via the pollen filter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods and services  as the provider  of credit if theres been a breach of contract 
or a misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Ws complaint about Hitachi  I 
would need to be satisfied that theres  been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and 
that Hitachis response to the claim under section 75 wasnt  fair or reasonable. 
It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of the claim that a party might have 
under section 75. Rather, in deciding  whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint, Ive taken  section 75 into account.  But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W pursued a claim for breach of 
contract.
Ref: DRN12812622The relevant  law says the goods needs  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply.  If this wasnt the case  then a breach of contract can be said to have  
occurred.
Ive looked at all of the available  evidence. Mr W has said that when he removed the carpet 
in the foot well he found water filled holes in the floor stuffed with paper. Hitachi has said that 
the dealership  didnt  find any water  ingress  and that the carpet  has been replaced.
Theres a clear dispute between Mr W and the dealership  as to the presence of holes in the 
floor. Mr W says there  were holes in the floor.  The dealership says there was a hole in the 
carpet.
The independent inspection is unhelpful  in that it relies heavily on the report by the 
dealerships own technician. The inspection contains hearsay and the engineer doesnt 
appear to have taken  adequate steps to check for holes under the carpet in the foot well, 
which is what Mr W complained about. In his report,  the engineer says it is beyond  my remit 
to remove any components or trim. I was unable to inspect the top surface of the driver side 
floor pan underneath the carpet.
For these reasons I cant treat the independent  inspection as reliable. The engineer  hasnt 
inspected the specific area where Mr W reported  the holes.
The dealership hasnt commented  o the allegation that the holes were stuffed with the 
dealerships paper. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the paper had been 
placed there by the dealership in an attempt to absorb moisture. This leads me to conclude 
that there  was a problem with water ingress  at the point of supply which  led to the presence 
of water in the foot well.
Ive taken into account that the car was approximately  3 years old at the point of supply. I 
dont think a reasonable person would  expect a car of this age to have a problem with water 
ingress (howsoever caused) at the point of supply. So Im satisfied that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
I appreciate that the cause of the water ingress has now been repaired.  However,  because  
Mr W asked to reject the car within  the first 30 days on the grounds that it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality and because Ive decided that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I 
think Mr Ws request  to reject the car was reasonable.
Based on the information Ive seen I think Mr W should be allowed to reject the car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr W.
Refund any deposit paid together with 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Remove any information relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit  file
Ref: DRN12812623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281262