K821x#15complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Ms S was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 2000. 
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ss complaint didnt think FICL explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Ms S. And she didnt think Ms S wouldve bought  the 
policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Ms Ss complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Ms S enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if FICL had given Ms S the clear  
information she needed she wouldnt have bought the policy.
Its likely  the policy Ms S was sold wouldnt have  covered her for any medical conditions she 
had when she bought it. Ms S has told us she had a medical condition when she was sold 
the policy. Ms S explained to our adjudicator  that the medical condition had been ongoing for 
2 years at the time of the sale and she was taking substantial medication for it. She said it 
had affected her life and her work. 
As Ive said,  I think its likely the PPI excluded  cover for Ms Ss known medical  condition.  Ms 
Ss explanation of her medical condition  has been clear, detailed  and plausible, and whilst I 
accept shes saying  this in support of her complaint, I think its more  likely than not that she 
did have this medical condition. So, on the basis of this, I think  its likely  the exclusion in the 
policy wouldve mattered to Ms S when  she bought  the PPI. 
And there was no information about this exclusion on the application form Ms S signed  when  
she was sold the PPI policy. So I havent seen  anything to show FICL did enough  to make 
this exclusion clear  to Ms S.
If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Ms S wouldve gone  
ahead with the policy if shed known she wasnt likely to have been  covered if shed needed  
time off work because  of her known  medical  condition. 
I think Ms S has lost out because of what FICL has done wrong and so it should  put things 
right.
Ref: DRN16924412Putting things  right
I understand Ms Ss account is closed.
FICL should put Ms S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms S wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI  Ms S 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balances, FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Ms S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Ms S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Ms S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1692441