K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained to deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited (referred to as deVere), about  not 
being informed  about issues with the Four Elements Strategic Growth  Fund  within his 
pension. This fund became illiquid  and incurred losses.  He says he was not informed about 
this at the time by deVere and it was several  years before he discovered that the fund was 
illiquid. He says he would  have taken action if he had known this  such as reducing  the 
income he was taking form his pension. In addition, Mr C complained  about  the charges 
being applied  to the pension.
background
Mr C had a Qualifying  Recognised Overseas  Pension Scheme (QROPS) which  was set up 
by deVere and Partners in South Africa. He became a client of deVere in the UK in 
December 2012  and received advice about  this pension on 3 January 2013.
At that time deVere  said Mr Cs existing pension portfolio was at a moderately adventurous 
level, compared to his assessed low to medium attitude to investment  risk.
Mr Cs pension investments were held in the following funds:
Four Elements Magma fund 12%
Miton  Optimal  Offshore Spec  Situations  fund 25% 
Four Elements Strategic Growth fund 51% 
VAM  Managed Funds Driehaus fund 11% 
The recommendation was to sell the entire  Four Elements Magma fund and 35% of the Four 
Elements Strategic Growth  fund.  The amounts  sold would be reinvested in the Invesco 
Perpetual High Income fund, M&G Corporate Bond fund and in cash. The fund changes  
were implemented.
When further advice  was provided in December 2014, it was noted the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund was suspended.  deVere has confirmed  to this service  that the fund 
was suspended in February  2013.
Mr C complained to deVere after he became aware  the Four Elements Strategic Growth 
fund was in administration. He said he should  have been informed about the issues  with the 
fund. Had he known  about the losses he was likely  to incur he wouldve adjusted the level of 
pension withdrawals he made.
deVere told Mr C that the suitability  of the pension plan, including  its charges and the initial 
underlying investments, werent its responsibility.  The plan was set up by the deVere  Group  
in South Africa,  not deVere UK. It couldnt have done anything  about the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund as it was suspended. When they found  out Mr C wasnt  on a mailing 
list from the South African division  of deVere (which  updated investors about the status  of 
the Strategic Growth  fund), it arranged for him to be included. The advisers reports in 2014 
and 2016 also stated the fund was suspended.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Cs complaint. His view was that Mr C had been informed that 
the fund was suspended  and the charging structure of the pension was the responsibility  of 
an overseas firm  the advice having  been given  by that firm to set up the pension  originally. 
However, in his view the advice  in January 2013 was unsuitable. The majority of Mr Cs 
Ref: DRN19134542pension was held in unregulated funds (UCIS) and the changes made were insufficient to 
make the resulting portfolio  suitable.
deVere disagreed.  In summary it:
Questioned the adjudicator considering the advice provided  to Mr C in January 2013. 
It suggested it was inappropriate to do so when  the Mr C had only complained about 
not being told of the Four Elements Strategic Growth  funds suspension, not the 
advice in 2013.
Said that Mr Cs loss was not as he had suggested when taking into account  the 
withdrawals he had made.
Questioned the adjudicators statements with respect to unregulated funds. It said the 
FCA guidance about unregulated funds only applied to new recommendations or 
promotions, not situations where the client already  held the fund. It did any event it 
did advise selling  some  of the unregulated funds. 
Said it did not sell unregulated investments  and agreed they would not be suitable  as 
new investments for the vast majority of its clients. When dealing  with existing 
holdings it said a different approach  is appropriate  considering the particular 
circumstances and then discussing  this with the client. 
It had not ignored the unregulated funds, it looked to gradually reduce  the exposure 
to these funds  over time and to reinvest  in mainstream UK investments.  It was 
unfortunate that the Strategic Growth fund became illiquid so soon after the advice in 
January 2013  - but that was outside  its control. 
The adjudicators view remained  that the advice  in January 2013 left Mr C with an unsuitable 
pension investment portfolio.
Mr C replied to the adjudicators assessment  and said that DeVere was ignoring the charges 
applicable to the pension.  He also said that the original pension value was much higher than 
was being set out. It was actually around £165,000.  Furthermore he only took the sums from 
the pension that deVere recommended - and this was on the basis that he wasnt reducing 
the value of his fund by taking withdrawals  he thought he was only taking the increase in 
pension value each  year. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would say that it was appropriate for the adjudicator to consider the advice Mr C had 
been provided with in January 2013.  As deVere may be aware,  this service has an 
inquisitorial remit. In any event, the adjudicator  did not, as deVere suggests, look  through 
an entire file to see if there is anything a client might want  to complain about.  He 
considered whether Mr C should have remained invested in a fund which subsequently 
resulted in the losses to his pension that Mr C complained about. This is clearly  closely 
associated with the complaint Mr C has made.   
Ref: DRN19134543deVere (UK) did not give the advice to set up the QROPS originally. Therefore it is not 
responsible for that advice or recommendation. So, the charging structure of the QROPS is 
not something that deVere had responsibility for and it did not determine  what charges would 
be applied. And the original investments  chosen  for that QROPS  would also not be the 
responsibility of deVere. deVere UK was receiving a fee from the QROPS  provider after 
2012, but that does not seem to me unreasonable, or of an unreasonable  level.   
Having said that, Mr C did become a client  of deVere in 2012  and it reviewed the QROPS in 
January 2013.  deVere undertook a risk assessment that resulted in Mr C being  defined as a 
low to medium risk investor. 
In the Annual  Portfolio  Report dated 3 January 2013 deVere set out that Mr Cs portfolio 
had a Moderately Adventurous risk grading. 
It risk graded the funds  as follows:
Four Elements Magma fund (12%) - adventurous
Miton Optimal Offshore Spec  Situations  fund (25%) - moderate
Four Elements Strategic  Growth  fund (51%) - moderate
VAM Managed Funds Driehaus fund (11%)  moderately adventurous 
(although in 2014 this was classified as adventurous)
As the adjudicator set out, deVere recommended that Mr C sell 100% of the Four Elements  
Magma fund and 35% of the Four Elements Strategic Growth  fund. These  were  to be 
replaced with lower risk income (which deVere classed as moderate  risk) and corporate 
bond funds (which deVere classed  as low risk).  
Assuming deVeres  risk gradings, this would appear  to have resulted in about  80% of the 
portfolio being  held in moderately adventurous and moderate risk investments with the 
remainder in lower risk investments.
With over 80% of the portfolio being  held in moderate and moderately adventurous risk 
investments, I do not believe  this recommendation led to Mr Cs portfolio being  realigned  
with his defined  low to moderate risk grading. This is bearing in mind that three retained 
original holdings were  UCIS. UCIS do not benefit  from the protections afforded  by UK 
regulation  such as cover by the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme - and are 
usually classed as higher  risk. 
I note that in December 2014, deVere  gave further advice to Mr C. His attitude to risk was 
defined as low-moderate. The report set out at the time that the Four Elements Strategic 
Growth fund now only made up 0.01%  of the portfolio  which was because  the fund had 
been suspended. The adviser  recommended  selling  the Miton fund and investing £10,000 in 
the JP Morgan Multi Asset Income fund and £10,000 in the Vanguard Life Strategy 40 fund.  
In January 2016, further advice was provided to sell part of the holdings  in the VAM
Managed Fund (LUX) Driehaus fund and hold them in cash. The report  did factually set out 
that the Four Elements  Strategic Growth fund was suspended. It also set out the current  
valuation of the QROPS   which  was significantly less than the value in 2012.
Whist I note deVere  says that it was reducing the risk and unregulated holdings  of the 
portfolio over time (which it did), bearing  in mind  Mr Cs risk tolerance,  the portfolio was still 
of a higher level of risk than was appropriate  for him after the changes  in 2013. Furthermore, 
Ref: DRN19134544he still had significant  holdings in unregulated funds which exacerbated the risks (and which 
persisted for some years). The value of Mr Cs pension was directly  affected by this because  
of the continuation of the holding  of the Four Elements Strategic Growth fund.  deVere  had 
the opportunity  of rebalancing  Mr Cs portfolio in 2013 to a risk level that met his attitude  to 
risk and also fully address  the risks of his holdings in unregulated funds. I would mention that 
I have not seen anything in Mr Cs background that would  indicate he was the kind of 
sophisticated investor for which  unregulated  funds  would be suitable. 
So, taking everything  into account, I believe deVere  should have gone further in January 
2013 and rebalance his portfolio  so that his holdings were of a risk level and type that were 
suitable for him  which I do not believe they were. The ramifications of that have continued 
until the present.  
I therefore uphold  the complaint on this basis.
I note that Mr C also complains about the lack of confirmation over time about the 
suspension of the Four Elements Strategic Growth fund and the pension  reduction  in value. 
The suspension of the fund was noted in the 2014  and 2016 reports, as was the pension 
value, although  the suspension was not specifically  discussed  in those reports.  Furthermore 
the valuations  by the QROPS provider do set out the overall value  and the Four Elements 
Strategic Growth fund value. So I could not say this information was not disclosed.  I would 
have expected that there would be more  documented comment from the adviser about the 
suspension and its consequent effect  on value and it is not clear why this was not set out. 
However, in any event, once the fund was suspended I do not believe there  was any further 
action that could practically be taken with it. Mr C could  have  reduced  or ceased to take 
income from the QROPS.  But he has had the benefit of that income, having simply 
withdrawn pension value  rather  than leave it within the QROPS. So I do not believe any 
further action  is necessary in this respect, bearing  in mind the redress  I will suggest in 
resolution of this complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr Cs QROPS portfolio should  have  been invested differently from 
January 2013.  But its not possible to say precisely what makeup that portfolio  should have 
had. But Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr C's 
circumstances, objectives and risk tolerance from January 2013. 
what should  deVere do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, deVere must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable. deVere  should also add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, deVere should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase  its value  by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
Ref: DRN19134545for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If deVere is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr C £250 for the upset  and inconvenience  caused  by the reduction in value of 
his pension and the suspension of his funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If deVere deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. deVere should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
QROPS mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  IndexJanuary 2013date of this 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the Four Elements Strategic Growth fund. So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. deVere  should 
take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as I set out above.
If deVere is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
Ref: DRN19134546for the purpose  of calculation. deVere may require that Mr C provides an undertaking to pay 
deVere any amount  he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. deVere will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if deVere  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C was willing to accept some  investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the  
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that deVere and Partners (UK) Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited  should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1913454