K820x#14complaint
B, a community association, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc credited a 
payment to its account that was due for its treasurer.
background
The treasurer of B had registered for mobile banking with NatWest to access  the accounts of 
B. A business client  of the treasurer wanted to make a payment to him. That client  made that 
through the mobile banking app using his mobile number. But as that number was registered 
for the accounts  of B the money was credited to one of its accounts. The treasurer said he 
faced embarrassment  as a result  and there  was inconvenience  as the money  had been 
wrongly credited.  He thinks  that there has been a data protection breach.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The treasurer had registered for the mobile banking app on 6 November 2017 using 
his mobile number.
-The mobile app has a payment service pay your contacts which can be used to 
make payments using  someones  mobile  phone number  rather  needing to know an 
account number.
-The terms and conditions for the mobile  app say that if someone  makes a payment in 
this way using  the app it will be credited to the account linked to that number on the 
system. Here the treasurers number was linked to B and so B received the payment 
sent using his mobile number details.
-A payment would have needed to be made  by Faster Payment to avoid this 
happening then.
B did not agree. The treasurer said he did not explicitly  consent to the use of this service.  
And NatWest did not inform B that he was automatically enrolled into this. He did not think  
that the terms and conditions  stated  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking  at the features of the product that existed when the payment  was made in July 
2018. At that time if a payment was made  using a mobile app from any part of the wider 
business grouping including NatWest  to another part of the group it would be directed 
according to the information registered on that mobile app. This was a feature of the app and 
was automatic. It did not need specific registration.  Ive noted that there is information about 
the features  of the mobile  banking app on the NatWest  website  now and Ive no reason to 
think that this wasnt  the case  when this payment was received.
I understand that the mobile banking terms and conditions are written  to explain what 
happens when  someone makes  rather  than receives  a payment using pay your contacts.  But 
I dont think that distinction  is significant  in reviewing this complaint. It is clear  to me that 
anyone who had registered for one of the apps would receive payments in this way and that 
the mobile phone  of the payee would be used to identify them.
It seems  that the person  making the payment wrongly assumed that it would get to the 
treasurer. And its clear  that the treasurer never asked for a business payment in this way. 
Ref: DRN19804622But unfortunately because he uses the same mobile  number for his business clients and had 
only registered it for mobile  banking for B the money was directed to B. Its important to note 
that the person making the payment wouldnt have discovered anything  about B as part of 
this  all that person  knew was the treasurers mobile number.
I dont doubt that this caused him embarrassment but I can see that in the final response 
letter NatWest explained clearly what had happened so that the treasurer  could explain it to 
his colleagues  at B. And I understand that the money was transferred from B to his business. 
At that time NatWest said that the only way to prevent this happening was to unregister for 
the app. Having looked at all the evidence I am not persuaded  that NatWest made an error 
or disclosed any information to a third party about B.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1980462