K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
in connection  with his motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes agents  acting for it.
background
Mr M was in an accident in 2016  when he said another driver reversed into him. The other 
driver blamed Mr M for the accident. Eventually Markerstudy agreed to pay the other  sides 
claim.
Mr M didn't think that was fair. Markerstudy thought it had handled  the claim reasonably. But 
it acknowledged there had been some delays; so it paid Mr M £150 compensation in 
recognition of that. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 25 October  2019.  For 
ease I've copied the key points from that decision below. I said:
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ms policy  allows 
Markerstudy to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Ms consent  to 
decide how to settle a claim and it may make  a decision that Mr M doesnt agree  with. But Ill 
look to see if its done so reasonably.
From the outset Mr M said the other  driver reversed into him. His account is that immediately  
after the accident she said that she didn't know why her car had gone into reverse. And an 
independent witness  said that, while he didn't see the accident happening, he did hear the 
other driver saying she didn't know why her car had reversed.  But the other driver later 
blamed Mr M for the accident.  She apparently said she was stationary in the road 
when Mr M tried to drive  round her, crashing into the rear of her car in the process.
The other drivers solicitors issued  liability proceedings on her behalf and Markerstudy 
passed the matter  to its legal representatives.  Some months later they sent Mr M a 
questionnaire with a deadline for completion. Mr M didn't return the questionnaire by that 
deadline. And although he telephoned them that day, the representatives said they felt that 
they couldn't defend  the claim,  so accepted  liability on Mr Ms behalf.
Mr M said that hed already signed a detailed  witness statement that provided all the 
information the representatives had asked for in the questionnaire. He added  that he phoned 
the representatives who told him he didn't need  to provide the information again. And while 
he did later submit the questionnaire,  Markerstudy  said that as the deadline  had passed,  it 
was too late to use that information to draft a statement for the court.  But it did agree the 
representatives could  have used information  already  on file to draft the statement. However, 
it said that even  if that had happened the most likely result would be that the court would 
have decided that the claim  would be concluded on a 50/50 basis.  
Ref: DRN19597002I've seen evidence  that Mr M spoke with the representatives on the morning of the deadline 
for submitting information to the court. So Im satisfied that call took place. He said that if the 
representatives had told him the importance  of the questionnaire he could have provided it 
that day. And I agree with him on that point.
Mr M had been consistent throughout that he wasn't responsible  for the accident.  And hed 
made it clear  he was happy to attend court and give evidence if required to do so. Hed 
already provided  a detailed statement that seemed to cover  all the key points on the 
representatives questionnaire. So I can understand why he questioned why they needed 
that again. Also, the representatives letter sent with the questionnaire  doesn't make it clear  
that the deadline included  on it was the deadline for submitting  evidence  to the court,  rather 
than for Mr M to contact  the representatives. And it's not clear why the representatives didn't 
set an earlier  return date,  to allow them time to prepare their submission to the court. That 
would also have allowed them time to send Mr M a reminder to return  the questionnaire  
before the courts  deadline date. And the letter  didnt  explain the apparent importance of 
returning the information promptly. So I don't think the representatives  handled the matter 
reasonably.
But in any event Mr M did contact the representatives by the deadline day, although that was 
on the phone. I note the representatives  have  no record of this call but Im satisfied it took 
place. And Im persuaded by Mr Ms evidence that the representatives didn't make it clear  
that they required his statement that day. I think if it had done so Mr M would have provided 
the questionnaire  without  further delay. The matter was clearly important to him and I think, 
on balance, that if the representatives had made  the importance  of the questionnaire clear 
Mr M would have provided it. However, even without the completed questionnaire the 
representatives had enough information  on file to draft a statement for the court.  But it 
seems they chose not to do so and instead conceded liability as the court  wouldn't  accept  
witness statements sent after that date. I don't think that was fair.
In response to our adjudicators assessment Markerstudy has now agreed that its 
representatives should have used the information Mr M had already provided to submit a 
witness statement to the court.  And Markerstudy  has accepted that the representatives 
shouldnt have conceded the case as they did. That is a welcome development because I 
think the representatives actions were both unfair  and unreasonable.
But, as we now know, because of the representatives errors they conceded  the case. As a 
result the claim was settled as a fault claim which has affected  Mr Ms insurance premiums,  
his NCD and it meant that he couldnt  recover any of his excess. But if the representatives 
had allowed the matter to progress to court there  was a distinct  possibility the court  would 
have found in Mr Ms favour.
As I've said above its not for me to make a liability decision. But because Markerstudy didn't 
deal with the matter fairly I need to consider  how it should put things right.  Im aware that its 
possible, if the case had gone  to a hearing,  the court could have found Mr M solely at fault, 
or it might have decided  in his favour.  Alternatively  Markerstudy now argue that the most 
likely outcome from the court would have been  a 50/50 split liability  decision. But Im not 
persuaded by its logic. 
In arriving at that conclusion Markerstudy noted  that the both drivers have blamed the other  
for the accident.  Its essentially said that this is one drivers word against the other. Hence its 
conclusion that a court would have settled on a 50/50 basis. But I think  theres enough 
Ref: DRN19597003evidence in Mr Ms favour to think he had a strong  prospect  of a successful outcome in 
court. 
For example the other driver apparently  claimed she was stationary at the time of the 
accident. She said Mr M tried to manoeuvre his car around hers causing the accident. But 
Ive seen photos of the damage to the cars. And from a lay perspective those don't appear to 
be consistent with the other drivers version  of events. Thats  because  the damage  shows a 
clear single area of impact on both cars, both with significant dents. That would seem more  
likely the result of a sudden impact  rather than scraping type damage that it would seem 
reasonable to expect  if Mr M had tried to drive his car round the back  of the other  one. But 
this evidence was never  put to a court for it or establish  if it supported Mr Ms version  of 
events.
Also theres an independent witness  statement  which  corroborates  Mr Ms account that the 
other driver said she didn't know why her car had gone into reverse.  That implies that she 
was out of control when she reversed into Mr Ms car. Its not now possible to know  what  
weight the court would  have given to this witness evidence.  But as Markerstudy 
inappropriately conceded the case without it going to court Mr M will never know what the 
outcome would have  been if the court had heard it. I don't think  thats fair, as its certainly 
possible that the court would have found the evidence compelling  in Mr Ms favour.
So although  I can't say what the outcome of a court claim would have been Im satisfied that 
Mr Ms position was significantly prejudiced  by Markerstudys handling of it. Indeed I think 
Mr M had a reasonable prospect of success had the matter  gone to court. But Markerstudys 
actions denied him the opportunity for a court to decide the claim. And I don't think thats  fair. 
In order to put things  right I think that Markerstudy should reclassify  the case as non-fault  
and take the action I've detailed below to put Mr M back in to the position he would 
otherwise have been in. It should also pay a further £500 compensation to address his 
distress and inconvenience arising  from its handling of the claim.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above its likely  Ill uphold this complaint. I will require Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Reclassify the incident as non-fault against  Mr M on internal and external databases.  
Refund Mr Ms excess and add simple interest to that at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date he paid it to the date it makes the refund. 
Reinstate his NCD as if it were unaffected by the accident.  
Give Mr M a letter that he can pass to his current and previous insurers to see if they 
are willing  to give him a refund  for the policies  hes taken  out since  his policy with 
Markerstudy lapsed based on the 2016 claim  being classified as non-fault  and the 
change to his NCD. If those insurers refuse to issue a refund  then Markerstudy 
should liaise  with them to find out what Mr Ms premium would have  been  if the claim 
had been recorded  as non-fault rather  than fault and with an extra years NCD. And 
Markerstudy should compensate him for that difference. It should add simple  interest  
to any refund calculated  from the dates Mr M paid the premiums to the date it refunds 
him. 
Pay him a further £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
suffered because of Markerstudys poor handling of the claim.
Markerstudy accepted  my provisional  decision.  Mr M didn't provide any further comment.
Ref: DRN19597004my findings
I've again  considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr M nor Markerstudy  objected to my provisional findings I see no reason to 
change them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Reclassify the incident as non-fault against  Mr M on internal and external databases.  
Refund Mr Ms excess and add simple interest to that at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date he paid it to the date it makes the refund1. 
Reinstate his NCD as if it were unaffected by the accident.  
Give Mr M a letter that he can pass to his current and previous insurers to see if they 
are willing  to give him a refund  for the policies  hes taken  out since  his policy with 
Markerstudy lapsed based on the 2016 claim  being classified as non-fault  and the 
change to his NCD. If those insurers refuse to issue a refund  then Markerstudy 
should liaise  with them to find out what Mr Ms premium would have  been  if the claim 
had been recorded  as non-fault rather  than fault and with an extra years NCD. And 
Markerstudy should compensate him for that difference. It should add simple  interest  
to any refund calculated  from the dates Mr M paid the premiums to the date it refunds 
him. 
Pay him a further £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
suffered because of Markerstudys poor handling of the claim.
Markerstudy should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr M has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Markerstudy considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1959700