K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a fair market 
value for his car and provided a poor service.  Mr G made  a claim under his car insurance  
policy.
background
Mr G made  a claim to his insurer, Advantage. Advantage said it wasnt economical to repair 
Mr Gs car as the estimated costs to repair it were much more than the cars market value. It 
gave Mr G a market value  for his car of £760.
Mr G wanted to keep  his car and asked if Advantage would repair it if he could get a lower  
estimate from another garage.  An engineer  said that if Mr G could  provide  an estimate from 
a garage to repair his car to its pre accident condition for £660 or less (as Mr G paid an 
excess of £100), it would  consider covering the costs and remove  the categorisation of the 
car  which the engineer recorded  as B. This categorisation meant that Mr Gs car wasnt 
suitable for repair.
Mr G was able to obtain an estimate  to repair his car for £760.  So this was more than the 
limit Advantage had set for it to consider repairing Mr Gs car. Mr G was unhappy that 
Advantage didnt  confirm  if this was acceptable. 
Advantage said that it had followed the correct  process when dealing with Mr Gs claim. It 
said the valuation  it paid Mr G was the highest  of the main motor trade guides.
Mr G asked us to look at his complaint. He provided a copy  of the estimate from a garage for 
£760. Our investigator  sent this to Advantage. Advantage said the estimate didnt given 
enough detail  to show that it represented repairs to bring Mr Gs car back to its pre accident 
condition.
Our investigator thought Advantage had acted reasonably.  
Mr G didnt agree. In summary he says:
He doesnt  agree with the market  value sum of £760.
He doesnt  believe his vehicle has been correctly categorised. The engineer 
made his decision  based on photographs. Other  mechanics have told Mr G his 
car isnt a category B write  off.
He wants Advantage  to not write off his car. Mr Gs car has sentimental  value  to 
him.
Advantage has provided  a poor service  and misled him with incorrect  information.
As Mr G didnt  agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN15529012Mr G has kept possession  of his car since the incident. Mr G says he doesnt agree  that his 
car is a Category  B write off. Advantage has provided a copy of the engineers report.  The 
engineer carried  out his report based on photos provided by Mr G. This doesnt mean that 
the engineers  report is therefore wrong. It isnt unusual  for a review to be carried out this 
way  if its clear enough for the engineer to make a decision  from the photos. 
I understand Mr G doesnt see why he should  have to pay for another engineer  to provide a 
report to say his car isnt a category B write off. But I think  Advantage acted reasonably in 
relying on the information from a qualified technical  expert. So I think  its equally reasonable 
that  if Mr G disagrees  the onus is on him to provide evidence that carries a similar weight  
to support his view at his own expense.  But - if Advantage accepts the evidence which leads 
to changing the categorisation of Mr Gs car  then I would expect Advantage to cover  the 
costs of the report. 
The engineers report gave an estimate to repair Mr Gs car at £5,146.42. This is a detailed 
estimate which includes costs for labour, paint, and parts.
The estimate that Mr G has provided  quotes  for a repair to the off side and near side front 
head lamp and rim, and a paint  and repair to the bonnet  and catch/lock. It doesnt provide a 
breakdown of labour or material costs.  It provides a total estimate of £760.  
I understand Mr G disagrees with the engineers estimate. He says theres no way it would  
cost anywhere near £5,000 to repair his car. But given the substantive  difference between 
the garage estimate provided by Mr G and the engineers report  - in both the estimated costs  
and detail  there isnt enough for me to conclude that Advantage should remove the 
category B marker from Mr Gs car  and therefore deciding that Mr Gs car is repairable  to 
go back on the road for £760.
We dont decide  a market value. But we look at whether an insurer  reached a valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr Gs policy with Advantage says the most it will pay 
in the event of a claim is the market value  for his car at the time of loss. 
We find the main motor trade guides are a reliable source as they provide valuations  based 
on likely  selling prices. And they can provide valuations for the same  make,  model, age, 
condition and mileage. We find they are more reliable than adverts  as adverts  tend to be a 
starting price  for the buyer to negotiate the price downward. 
The final market value  Advantage  paid Mr G was £760. We checked  the four main motor  
trade guides and found the highest valuation was £760 for a car similar to Mr Gs. So I think 
Advantage decided a market value in a reasonable  way and in line with the policy.  
Advantage agreed it had incorrectly told Mr G it wouldnt accept a quote for repairs using 
recycled parts. And it said there was a delay in replying to Mr Gs correspondence. For this it 
apologised and paid Mr G £75 compensation. I think this was fair and reasonable.  I can see 
that Mr G asked the engineer on 12 November 2018 if Advantage would be prepared  to 
cover repairs  for £760  but he didnt receive  a reply  until Advantage replied to his complaint 
on 27 November 2018. Advantage explained that because Mr Gs car has been  categorised  
as B it cannot be returned to the road as it is deemed unsuitable for repair. This means  
Advantage wont deduct a salvage  fee from the total loss settlement.
Ref: DRN15529013If Mr G wants to retain the salvage of his vehicle, he can as he is the owner of the car  even 
if its a category B. But its then the responsibility of Mr G to dispose  of it  as it cannot be 
returned to the road. However, I understand  this isnt what Mr G wants.  He wants  Advantage 
to accept the estimate hes provided  to repair his car for £760 and remove the category  B 
marker. But the evidence Mr G has provided isnt enough to persuade  me that Advantage 
has unreasonably recorded the categorisation of Mr Gs car.
Overall I think  Advantage has acted  reasonably.  Its offered to settle Mr Gs claim in line with 
the policy by providing a total loss settlement minus the excess. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed, but this means Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1552901