K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains as the sole proprietor of the former firm, L that Pen Underwriting Limited 
overcharged him for the run-off  premiums for professional indemnity insurance due after the 
closure of his firm.
background
Mr S bought his professional indemnity insurance  through an independent  broker.  In 
February 2018 he completed  a proposal  form for renewal of his policy to run for eighteen 
months from the beginning of April. In that form he said that 91% of the work his practice 
dealt with was Landlord  and Tenant law. He accepted the premium  and the policy started to 
run. In December 2018 he notified Pen that he was closing down his practice. Pen advised 
that the professional rules required Mr S to have run-off cover  for six years.  The cost for that 
is 300%  of the last annual premium. After  Mr S complained to Pen, it agreed to convert  the 
policy into a twelve month one and to set off six months premium  against the amount owed.
Mr S feels  that he was overcharged.  Although  he ticked the box for Landlord  and Tenant on 
the proposal form, he said that the majority of his business was social housing funded by 
legal aid. He felt that was a significantly lower risk. He agreed that the issue wasnt taken up 
with Pen until December 2018, but felt that if there  was a mistake in the risk he paid for that 
could be corrected in respect of the run-off premium.
Pen pointed  out that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy and that Mr S wasnt 
limited to buying his indemnity insurance  with it. It assessed the risk on the form completed 
by Mr S, and he had signed  an acceptance of the quotation. The premium  was calculated  
according to the fee income for the previous  policy year. It provided a statement from a 
senior underwriter confirming the premium was priced correctly. It pointed out that the policy  
set out the terms  for it providing a run-off  premium,  which given his profession,  Mr S should 
have been expected to know.  He was also advised by a broker.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Pen had acted reasonably. It wasnt  
responsible for the sale of the policy but he was satisfied that it had set out to us that it had 
calculated the premium correctly.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.  I requested further information 
from Pen specifically whether given the nature of Mr Ss business as more  recently  disclosed 
by him, it would have  set a lower premium. It has said it would not  it believes its premium 
was fair and acceptable. In fact given the nature of the actual client  base and its propensity 
to make a claim it may have charged  a higher  premium. It believes that setting the premium  
according to the income declared  was fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been pointed  out to Mr S, Pen wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy.  It had 
been asked to provide a quotation for the sale of a professional indemnity insurance based 
on a proposal form signed  by Mr S. It had provided  insurance in previous years  and Mr S 
had always indicated he dealt with Landlord and Tenant Law,  albeit not always  the same 
Ref: DRN19446102proportion of his practice.  So Pen had provided insurance in good faith and accepted  the risk 
it was asked to insure. So I cant consider the sale of the policy  here. 
We can look at the premium and see whether Mr S has been  treated fairly in relation to how 
the policy was priced  in comparison to other  customers. Mr S believes that the premium 
charged was on the basis  of his declaring  his firm to be dealing  with mostly Landlord and 
Tenant Law. He accepts  that that was an error  but points out that there wasnt a separate 
box on the proposal form for housing. He believes it was a lower risk as the client base  for 
this would be low income and legally aided  with much lower  rents  than for private 
landlords/tenants. He also says the fee income would have included amounts to be repaid to 
Legal Aid or clients. The proposal form itself was one used by the brokers rather  than a 
specific one used by Pen, so the lack of a housing category wasnt  due to Pen.
Generally it is up to the insurer to decide what the risk to it is and how much it wants  to set 
the premium for that specific risk. As long as customers of a similar type are treated alike,  its 
not something this service  would generally comment on. Pen has provided  us with a 
statement from a senior underwriter saying the premium has been  charged correctly, based  
on Mr Ss fee income for the previous  policy year. Ive seen no evidence that Mr S was 
overcharged or treated unfairly  he didnt have to accept the renewal quotation but didnt 
query it until he closed  his practice  and was asked for the premium to cover  the six years 
run-off. 
If the policy was set up with a higher  risk  and a higher premium  than was warranted, 
because of a mistake then it may well not be fair to base future premiums on that risk. But in 
this case Pens underwriters have specifically said that the information  now given by Mr S 
wouldnt have altered the premium. And that given the more  likely propensity of that client 
base to make claims it might well have charged a higher premium if it had known at the time. 
It also says that setting the premium according to the fee income  disclosed in the firms 
accounts is fair.
In view of what Pen says I think its unlikely that Mr S would have been quoted a lower  
premium than he was actually charged, if he had told it his main business was social  
housing rather than Landlord and Tenant Law. Its underwriters have confirmed that and 
indeed said that that category of client may have warranted a higher premium. So  I think  
Pen has acted fairly in this case.
Ive considered Mr Ss point about his fee income, but I dont think it unreasonable for Pen to 
base the premium on the income as disclosed by his accounts. Possible refunds  to clients or 
to Legal Aid seem to me to be rather uncertain  and would likely work  their way through the 
accounts from previous  years.
I further note that Mr S is a commercial client advised by a broker.  He would have known 
that professional  rules  require closing firms to take out run-off cover.  So I think  it can fairly be 
said that he should have understood the term in the policy setting the premium for that at 
300% of the last premium for six years.
Overall I think  Pen has acted fairly in setting the premium which it has charged  according to 
its own pricing criteria. I also dont think Mr S was disadvantaged by his declaring his work to 
be Landlord and Tenant rather than housing. And that it is fair to say he should have been 
aware of the term in the policy for run-off  cover. I should emphasise that I havent considered 
the sale of the policy,  or the advice  given to Mr S in respect of that sale - that was his 
brokers responsibility.
Ref: DRN19446103. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1944610