K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Bank  PLC, trading  as Yorkshire Bank,  has failed to 
agree a new mortgage with them or extend  the mortgage term as it had promised. They  also 
complain about  the impact this has had on their credit ratings.
background
Mr and Mrs H have a flexible mortgage   in other  words, a secured  overdraft  facility   with 
Yorkshire Bank. It was set up and being paid on an interest-only basis. Mr and Mrs H have 
made some extra payments over the years to reduce  the capital. 
The mortgage term ended in 2016, and the bank agreed a term extension of two years, until 
April 2018. Mr and Mrs H want to continue with the mortgage on an interest-only  basis  for 
the rest of their lives, and they believe theres  no good reason why the bank shouldnt  agree 
to that. The bank hasnt agreed.
Mr and Mrs H asked us to look into this in 2017. An ombudsman issued a final decision on 
that complaint  in April 2017. She didnt  uphold it.
Mr and Mrs H say the bank then offered them a settlement which they would find acceptable 
 but it reneged on that. And, after the two-year extension ended in 2018, it removed the 
limit on the borrowing facility. It has been  asking Mr and Mrs H to repay  the capital balance, 
which is around £80,000. It has also recorded information on their credit files which  Mr and 
Mrs H say has affected their borrowing with another lender.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He explained that he could only look into 
what had happened  since an ombudsman issued a final decision on Mr and Mrs Hs earlier  
complaint in April 2017.  He concluded that the bank hadnt agreed to grant Mr and Mrs H an 
open-ended or lifetime mortgage,  and that it had tried to come  to a solution with them. He 
also said the bank  had put the right information  on Mr and Mrs Hs credit  files, because it 
had recorded  the balance  they owe as still outstanding once the extended mortgage  term 
had ended.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept that conclusion. They repeated some  of their earlier arguments, 
and referred again  to a newspaper article which they consider sets out the correct position  
that lenders should extend  interest-only  mortgages for life for borrowers  in their situation. 
They still thought  the bank had reneged  on its promises and that they should receive 
substantial compensation for the way it had treated them.
They also said the bank  had mis-sold  their mortgage to them in 2014, when they ported it to 
their current  property, because the term should have been extended for life then.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs H are very unhappy  with earlier  decisions they have received 
from this service, but its not for me to reconsider those decisions or the complaints that led 
to them.  Neither I nor any other ombudsman at this service can overturn those earlier  
decisions.
Ref: DRN13943222We consider each complaint that is brought  to us on its individual  facts and merits. We dont 
regulate the financial businesses we cover, so its not for us to require all mortgage  lenders 
to take a blanket approach and, for example, grant a particular  group  of borrowers interest-
only mortgages for life  which  is what  Mr and Mrs H had understood from a newspaper 
article. 
In some cases, it will be appropriate for a lender to extend a mortgage term. Here,  the bank 
has already given Mr and Mrs H a two-year extension, followed by other,  shorter-term  
arrangements under  which  it agreed  to continue  accepting  payments of interest-only. 
I can certainly see that Mr and Mrs H are in a difficult and stressful situation; they say they 
have no means to repay the capital in the short term,  and they dont want to sell their home. 
The bank must  treat them fairly  in this situation, consider their best interests, and give proper 
consideration to their proposals to repay the money  they borrowed. 
Im satisfied that the bank has done all of that. I find it has tried to engage with Mr and Mrs H 
about their financial  circumstances  and their plans to repay the debt. While Mr and Mrs H 
have said they plan to make  extra  payments when they can to reduce the capital, I find 
nothing to indicate that theyve agreed to a regular monthly amount or a date by which they 
will repay. Instead, they have remained set on an interest-only mortgage for life  which the 
bank has said it doesnt offer.
I have looked  carefully  at the banks communications  with Mr and Mrs H, and Im not 
satisfied that it agreed to extend the term indefinitely.  It has said it would discuss  options 
with them,  but that is not the same  as giving them a guarantee they can have  a mortgage for 
life  which I think it has been clear with them  that it wont do. So I dont consider that the 
bank has broken its promises to Mr and Mrs H.
The bank has written  to Mr and Mrs H regularly  saying  the balance  needs to be repaid. Mr 
and Mrs H have found this inappropriate, annoying and stressful  particularly as the letters  
invited them to get in touch for help but they dont  think  the bank has helped them. However, 
the banks offers of help dont necessarily  mean  it will agree to what Mr and Mrs H want. The 
banks records satisfy  me that it has been  open  to discussing various options, including 
switching the mortgage to a capital and interest repayment basis and short  extensions  to the 
term on an interest-only basis. I think all of that was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage came  to the end of the extended term last year, and since then the 
bank has recorded  the balance as outstanding  with no overdraft limit. That is the position, 
and some of the banks  letters to Mr and Mrs H said their credit files would be affected. So I 
dont require the bank to amend the information, and I dont find its down to any mistakes in 
how the bank  has applied Mr and Mrs Hs payments  to their account.
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage  which came to the end of its term some time ago, and when 
they took it out they agreed to repay it at the end of the term. I must be fair to both parties 
and, in all the circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair for me to require the bank to 
grant a lifetime mortgage. That is something  Mr and Mrs H may be able to explore with other 
lenders. I would encourage them to keep the bank informed of their progress and any 
proposals they wish to make to repay  the capital. I make no award of compensation.
Finally, Mr and Mrs H told us after our investigator  had set out his view of the complaint that 
they think the bank should  never  have  agreed a term of only two years when they moved  
Ref: DRN13943223house in 2014; it should have granted a lifetime  mortgage then. This is a new point which the 
bank may not know about and which it doesnt  yet appear to have considered. It should fairly 
have the opportunity to do so first; we may then be able to look into that particular issue as a 
fresh complaint if Mr and Mrs H ask us to. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1394322