K821x#15complaint
Ms P is unhappy because  her home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc declined  her claim 
made after she suffered  a water leak. It said the damage  had occurred gradually.
background
Ms P, around Christmas  2018, had a contractor visit the property, he said there was a 
leak. Ms P contacted  AXAs home  emergency  department. A contractor was sent out 
(between Christmas and New Year) and the water  supply  to the home  was switched off. 
The contractor didnt  return and on 3 January 2019 Ms P paid for a plumber to trace  and 
fix the leak. She called  AXA to make a claim for the water damage.
AXA sent an assessor to the property on 7 January 2019. He concluded that the leak,  
from a pipe under the kitchen floor, had been  going on over a period of time. He noted the 
sub-floor and joists  were saturated, walls in the lounge  and kitchen  were  stained and wet, 
and the laminate flooring  in the lounge and hallway was distorted (cupping). AXA received 
his report on 8 January  and declined Ms Ps claim on 9 January. It considered a challenge 
she made but issued  a final response declining the claim on 5 February 2019.
Ms P thought the decision  was unfair and complained to us. Our investigator noted the 
policy exclusion for gradual cause, that the evidence suggested the leak had been on-
going for a long time, and that a patch of damage  on the kitchen  wall, along with the 
cupped flooring, should have alerted Ms P to the fact of on-going  damage. He said,  that 
being the case, AXAs decision  to rely on the exclusion to defeat the claim was fair.
Ms P didnt agree. The complaint was passed to me to for a decision to be made.  I felt 
AXA should  re-consider Ms Ps claim and pay her compensation.  So I issued a provisional 
decision. Both parties agreed with my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally that, having considered the matter, I wasnt  persuaded that AXAs  
reliance on the gradual cause exclusion  had resulted in a fair outcome. I went on to 
explain why I felt this was the case:
Our investigator was correct in his explanation  about the policy  terms. In short  Ms Ps 
policy doesnt cover  gradual  damage, and this damage occurred gradually. So strictly 
speaking AXA can decline liability for it. I have to consider then whether,  in all of the 
circumstances, that creates  a fair outcome.
As our investigator also explained, where an insurer seeks  to decline a claim like this, we 
look at whether the policyholder knew or should  reasonably have known there  was on-going  
damage occurring.  Ms P hasnt always been clear  here about what she knew when, or what  
happened and when. But from what she says it seems that any damage noticed does seem 
to have only been seen within a week or two of the leak being identified.
Im also mindful here that the visible  damage appears quite limited. Reading  the report 
issued on 8 January,  the damage seems  quite extensive  and anyone reading it might  
Ref: DRN18760632well be forgiven for thinking the leak must have been obvious. But the report  only includes 
four photographs to support the findings,  only two of which  have been taken to evidence  
the water  damage.
The report  refers to the laminate cupping and being scuffed. But the photos  dont  show  
this. And the laminate actually looks in quite good condition  for example it is still shiny 
and often water damaged  laminate loses its finish. The cupping  isnt evident.
There is a white mould/damp patch showing on a wall in the kitchen. There  doesnt seem 
to be any evidence of staining  or of the walls being visibly saturated   and there  arent 
photos of any other  walls.
So the photos  dont leave me thinking  that there was obviously and clearly  something  
going on at the property which Ms P should have taken more affirmative action to deal 
with and at a much earlier stage.
Im also mindful that AXAs report identifies significant water  damage below the floor 
finishes. This is in the area of the leaking pipe. And Im mindful that the sub-floor,  at least 
in the immediate vicinity  of the pipe,  would have been soaked before  the point any water 
travelled to and began affecting the walls,  or the laminate in other rooms. The mould on 
the wall would only have  occurred after it had been wet for a time (and there  is no sign it 
was wet). Im further mindful that cupping of laminate  occurs  only after flooring has been  
exposed to moisture (which in this case affected it from below). So in both cases  of the 
visible damage, which Ms P possibly could have  noticed and acted upon sooner,  the 
damage to the fabric  of those items, as well as that to the sub-floor and joists, had most 
likely already occurred.
In these circumstances, and given the relatively  limited clearly visible damage present at 
Ms Ps home, Im not persuaded that for AXA to rely on the gradual  cause exclusion to
defeat the claim would  be fair or reasonable. I think it needs to consider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If any damage has gotten  worse 
because, for example, the sub-floor hasnt been  opened up to allow it to dry, AXA will 
have to accept  liability for the additional  repair needed.
AXAs decline has been  upsetting for Ms P. I know shes been worried  about finding  the 
money to have the work done. If shes had any work done or bought  any materials shell 
have to submit evidence of costs  to AXA for it to consider as part of the claim. In making 
any settlement for costs Ms P has already incurred AXA wont  be able to rely on any 
clause that generally  allows it to settle  in cash based  on what  it would have  cost it to do 
the work  or buy materials.  It will have to add interest* from the date Ms P paid for any item 
or work and until settlement is made.
For the worry and inconvenience AXAs decision to decline the claim caused Ms P, I think 
it should pay £250 compensation. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, I have  no reason to change  them.  
My provisional findings are now the findings of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Ref: DRN18760633re-consider  Ms Ps claim in line with my comments above,  including  those regarding 
Ms Ps costs and interest*.
pay her £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If AXA Insurance 
UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest due to Ms P, it 
should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1876063