K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out the PPI at the same  time as arranging his mortgage in 2003 in a branch of 
Nationwide. The policy covered Mr G for accident  and sickness only,  not unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no suggestion that Mr G didnt know about the policy  being added. He says that he 
was aware of it, but as a first time buyer he just went along with what  he was told by the 
adviser. Looking  at the paperwork  from the sale, it does appear  that the policy was 
presented as optional. The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if 
Mr Gs recollection  of events has faded over time.  I think its likely that Mr G was told it might  
be a good idea for him to take out the policy, rather than being told he had to have it. Overall  
Im satisfied that Mr G decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt  have to.
The parties disagree about whether  or not this was an advised sale. Nationwide says it didnt  
advise Mr G to buy the policy. Mr G says he was advised to buy the policy because he was 
self-employed and as such wouldnt have had the funds to make his mortgage repayments if 
he was unable to work.  Certainly, from what Mr G has said about the sale,  it sounds like 
Nationwide might have  drifted into giving advice  about the policy. But I dont need to make  a 
finding about this issue as it makes  no difference to my decision.  If Nationwide did advise Mr 
G to buy the policy, then in recommending it to him, it needed  to ensure that it met his 
needs. And from what I know of Mr Gs circumstances at the time, the policy  was suitable.
Mr G has said that hes since become aware that PPI isnt suitable for self-employed people. 
It is the case that the unemployment part of the cover wasnt always  suitable for the self-
employed because  it might have made it harder for someone in that position to claim than an 
employed person.  But Mr G did not take out unemployment cover, he bought accident and 
sickness cover only. And there  is nothing  about  the accident and sickness  cover that made it 
unsuitable for a self-employed person. As Mr G wouldnt  have received any sick pay from his 
job, the policy could  have provided a useful benefit  at a difficult time.
Mr G has said that he had some  savings and could have taken money  out of his business. 
But having  the policy would have meant that he could have retained his savings or avoided  
using his business funds, or used his savings to cover any other outgoings.  Overall  I think 
that Mr G had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it, so if Nationwide  did 
recommend the policy to him, then it was reasonable that it did so.
Ref: DRN10345342A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr G, as a first time buyer  
running his own business, had an interest  in protecting his mortgage repayments.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of the significant terms or exclusions (for example he 
did not have a pre-existing medical  condition),  so I dont think  that more information  would 
have caused Mr G to change his mind  about  buying the policy. That means  Mr G is no worse  
off as a result of anything  Nationwide  may have  done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Nationwide needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1034534