K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled his claim under the home 
emergency section  of his home insurance policy.
background
Mr W lives with his wife. He has said they each work from home  on a regular basis
The home emergency section covered repairs to their central  heating  boiler. But it didnt 
cover repairs  to a boiler that was beyond economic repair  (BER). It provided as follows:
If we find out your  boiler is beyond  economic  repair, we will pay £250 towards the 
cost of a new one.
UKI was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI I include other 
companies and individuals insofar  as I hold UKI responsible for their actions. 
This final decision names UKI. It doesnt name any other company or individual.
Mr Ws boiler stopped working  on about 1 March. But instead  of contacting UKI, he 
contacted an unrelated  company, which I will call the other company.  It visited and  on 
about 2 March  installed  a new boiler. At that stage Mr W contacted UKI. He complained 
that UKI wouldnt pay him £250.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  the 
insurer had dealt with Mr Ws claim in a fair and reasonable  way. She recommended  that the 
insurer should:
1.pay Mr Ws claim; and 
2.pay 8% interest from the date the claim was payable  to the date of settlement; and 
3.pay Mr W £50.00 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to UKI on 14 January 2020. I summarise  my findings:
Mr Ws delay in reporting to UKI negatively affected UKIs position such  that it wasnt  
unfair for UKI to decline to pay the £250.00. 
I wasnt satisfied that the old boiler was BER as defined  by the policy.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from UKI, my provisional  decision was that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt  intend to direct  U K Insurance  Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint.  
UKI had nothing to add in response  to the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN17151192Mr W disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The old boiler  was fitted in 1991;  it was coming  up to thirty  years old.
Most  boilers have  a life expectancy of 15 to 20 years.
The policy  a legal document  stated as follows:
If we find out your boiler is beyond economic repair, we will pay £250 
towards the cost of a new one.
Mr W and his wife work  long unsocial  hours. Fortunately the other company could 
assess and fit the boiler in days and on a date he was available.
The other company is a reputable company with qualified  engineers. It assessed the 
boiler and stated it was BER.  Mr W had no reason to doubt  that finding.
When the other company arrived the boiler  was attached  to the gas, water and 
central heating system.
Mr W phoned UKI. He offered  UKI the chance to speak to the other company. And he 
asked that company to keep  the old boiler  at his home  for a month  so that UKI could 
verify its age. UKI declined. But UKI did find out his boiler was BER.
His claim has never been for spare  parts, repair, or cost of a new boiler.
The decision depends on which aspect  of the policy document  is judged  to be most  
relevant and applicable to this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy terms
The UKI policy terms included the following:
Heating
We will pay for emergency assistance  needed  if the main  source  of heating in 
your home fails.
If we find out your boiler is beyond economic repair, we will pay £250 towards the 
cost of a new one.
We wont pay:

 to repair a boiler that is beyond economic repair
 to replace  your main source of heating

Ref: DRN17151193We wont pay for:

 the cost of work carried out by anyone except the authorised repairer we have 
sent
Asking for emergency assistance
If an emergency happens that may need an emergency assistance call out, you 
must contact us straight away on 0345
Im satisfied that Mr Ws boiler was his main source of heating  as defined in the policy.
I see that emergency assistance is defined as follows:
Work carried  out by an authorised repairer  or suitably qualified repairer  to 
temporarily or permanently deal with an emergency,  carry out emergency  repairs  or 
prevent further  damage.
So emergency assistance means  work carried out.
The policy said the insurer wouldnt replace the main source of heating. Rather  it would  if it 
found out the boiler was BER - pay £250.00  towards the cost of a new one. So I find that the 
£250.00 would be a financial contribution rather than work carried out or emergency 
assistance.
Therefore I dont find that the £250.00  contribution  could be affected by the terms relating to 
work carried out or emergency assistance.
However, the policy terms also included the following:
Claims conditions

Reporting claims
When you find out about anything you need  to claim for, or may need to claim for, 
you must  tell us as soon as possible.
If you dont follow our claim conditions,  and this negatively affects our 
position:
 we will reject your  claim or be unable to deal with it, or
 we will not pay your claim in full.
So the claims conditions  about reporting claims mean that where,  for example,  delay  in 
reporting a claim prejudices UKIs position,  it may reject the claim or not pay it in full. The 
claims conditions about reporting claims apply to claims that would otherwise succeed. That 
includes claims that UKI had found out that the old boiler was BER.
The UKI policy defined  BER as follows:
When  the cost of repairing your boiler  exceeds 85% of the manufacturers current  
retail price  (or if this is not available,  the average current  retail price available through 
leading UK suppliers) for a boiler of the same  or similar make  and model to your  
boiler.
Ref: DRN17151194In other  policies I have  seen different  definitions  of BER. 
What happened
I accept Mr Ws statement  that the old boiler was fitted when the house was built in 1991.
I have noted the make  and model of the old boiler.
In 2019 Mr W had a boiler breakdown. That was an event for which  he might have (and did) 
have a need to make a claim on UKI. But he called  in an engineer from the other company 
that was nothing to do with UKI. He only contacted UKI on the day the other company was 
replacing his boiler. So Im not satisfied that he told UKI about  his claim as soon as possible.
In my view his delay in reporting to UKI had the effect that it could no longer send an 
engineer to look at the old boiler while it was still connected  to gas, electricity and the central  
heating system. 
Further, Mr W didnt  provide UKI (and still hasnt provided us) with enough evidence  to show  
what had been  wrong with the old boiler,  what spare  parts  it needed, the cost of repairing it 
or the retail price of a similar make and model. Without such information  I cant  say that the 
old boiler was BER as defined  by the policy.
I consider that Mr Ws delay in reporting  to UKI negatively  affected UKIs position such that it 
wasnt unfair for UKI to decline to pay the £250.00.  And Im not satisfied  that the old boiler 
was BER as defined by the policy.
For these reasons I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mr W £250.00 or to 
do anything further  in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited  to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1715119