K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the condition of a car she bought using a hire purchase agreement
financed by First Response Finance Ltd (First Response). Miss P wants to return the car and
have her finance agreement unwound.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February. In that I said I was minded to 
uphold Miss Ps complaint, but that I wasnt going  to go as far as allowing her to return the 
car. Instead  I said First Response should pay for some repairs.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this decision. Ive 
anonymised the car make as this decision will be published.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Response has accepted my provisional decision.
Miss P has said shes disappointed with my conclusions, and has made a couple of points.  
She says First Response has argued about any quotes shes previously provided and is 
worried this will carry on. I dont think theres  any need for that. I suggested a reasonable 
quote would  be within 10% of the amounts on the quote prepared in June 2018.  The list of 
items Ive said First Response should  pay for comes to £1,409.68 including VAT  adding 
10% makes that £1,550 in round figures.  So I wouldnt expect First Response to question  
any quote up to that amount. I can see that one part of the work  checking  the wiring  for the 
starter motor  might  potentially lead to extra work.  In that case  Id expect First Response  to 
pay any additional labour costs at the same  rate as on the quote (£150 an hour plus VAT) 
and for any parts at retail  cost plus VAT.  The labour rate can increase by 10% as before. 
Theres no need to increase any parts cost as the quote will be up to date.
First Response should either pay Miss P the relevant amount so she can arrange repairs at 
her convenience, or pay the garage completing  the repairs.  Ill leave that choice to Miss P. 
Miss P might  want to bear in mind  that if she accepts a cash  settlement, that will end First 
Responses involvement  in these repairs  so if they werent to her satisfaction  shed  need  to 
take that up with the repairing garage. 
Miss P says she needs  a car for work, so I think it also appropriate that First Response 
arranges for her to have a car whilst hers is being  repaired. It might be that the garage she 
chooses can provide  a courtesy car, but if not First Response  should pay for a hire car 
(similar in size to the one she normally drives) for Miss P. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order First Response  Finance Ltd to:
Pay for the necessary repairs to the ignition and start/stop system, the heated seat,
            wiper motor and jet, the engine tray and any repairs  needed  for the safety belts.
Ref: DRN10956862Pay £200 for the trouble and inconvenience Miss Ps had.
Pay Miss Ps car hire costs whist her car is being  repaired.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10956863complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the condition of a car she bought using a hire purchase agreement
financed by First Response Finance Ltd (First Response). Miss P wants to return the car and
have her finance agreement unwound.
background
Miss P bought  an 8 year old car at the end of February 2018. She says there were
problems with the car the very next day  in particular there was a problem with the
stop/start system and the ignition. She says she contacted the dealer that sold the car, who
carried out some work but it didnt resolve anything.  In April Miss P got in touch with First
Response. By this time there was a list of things wrong with the car. After some  initial
investigation by a garage, it was decided to send the car to an appropriate specialist to find 
out what needed to be done. That produced  a long list of things wrong with the car  some
required urgent  attention  and others  were  more minor.
First Response offered to pay for some of the repairs. And it offered Miss P a loan to pay for
others if she wanted that. It says it did this because although it would accept that some of
the faults might have  been pre-existing, most  of them  were  caused by wear  and tear and to
be expected in a car of this age.
Miss P refused one offer of repairs because she thought the garage in question  had made
things worse.
Our investigator initially thought First Response should complete all the repairs. First
Response objected to this as it said many were  due to age and wear and tear. It also said
the cost of all the repairs  was uneconomic,  given the value of the car.
Our investigator then said that, as the relationship between  Miss P, the dealer and First
Response had broken down, the best option was for First Response  to take back the car and
unwind Miss Ps finance agreement.
First Response says thats unfair  as it should  have an option to repair the car first  and it
still says many of the faults are down to wear and tear.
Ive been asked to conclude this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive currently come to a different decision to our investigator.  Im aware  this
will disappoint Miss P, so Ill explain why.
The general rule of thumb when looking at whether faults were  present at the point of sale is
that if a fault is found within six months  of purchase, its for the seller (or First Response) to
show that they werent present. If First Response cant do that then it should  either  repair the
car or allow  it to be returned.
Miss P says problems occurred within days.  And indeed,  even  after First Response got a
Ref: DRN10956864report from an appropriate specialist,  this was within the six month  period. And by this time 
there
was a long list of things that needed  repair.
First Response says its offered to pay for some of the things wrong with the car and thats
fair. It also says some  things  are caused by wear and tear. It doesnt want to pay for these,
although it says its offered  to lend Miss P some more money to pay for them  if thats what
she wants. It says its unfair  to ask it to accept the return  of the car without it being first given
the chance to repair  the things its responsible for. Miss P says shes  lost faith in the dealer
and First Response and that there are so many things wrong with the car she wants  to return
it.
Firstly, I do think  First Response should be given a chance to put things right before its
expected to accept the car back.  Thats what Id normally expect a business to do. And I
think there are options available to Miss P about who carries  out the repairs  which  Ill come
to later.
Because the two parties cant agree on a way forward,  I need to consider what  I think  is a
fair resolution to this situation. Essentially thats to decide what  faults were most  likely
present when Miss P bought the car, which means  First Response  should get repaired.
To do that I have to take into account what the problems were,  given the age of the car. I
also take into account how much use Miss Ps had of the car  in particular how many miles
shes been able to drive as thats  a good indication of whether the car is useable. Finally  Ive
been able to look at the result of the MOT carried out only a couple  of weeks after Miss P
bought the car, although I am aware that some things (the carpet  and heated seat for
example) wouldnt be checked.
These are my current thoughts:
Some things  such as the ignition,  a start/stop system, wiper motors,  heated  seats and
safety belts, Id expect  to be working  when  the car was purchased. And Id expect them to
remain functional during (at least) the early  months  of ownership. Id also expect things
normally found on the car  such as the engine tray  to be present and unbroken.
Other components are always going  to be items  that are covered by regular maintenance
and do need to be replaced as they wear  out with use. Id include things like tyres, oil, brake
fluid, brake pads and discs and windscreen  wiper blades in this category.
Finally there is a class  of problems where components  do fail over time even if they dont fall
into the regular wear  and tear category. That would include things like cam belts  (which
should normally be replaced after either  a number of years  or miles), coil springs (which are
often affected by driving styles and pot holes) and the worn carpet. These  are things  that an
owner would  reasonably  expect to pay out for over a number  of years.  I dont know if a
previous owner  had  for example  the cam belt replaced when that fell due. That might
help me decide  if the belt is faulty  or simply due for replacement. Miss P and/or First
Response can send  me any evidence about this sort of maintenance if its available, and Ill
consider it before I make my final decision.
I dont think First Response should  have to repair and/or replace either  regular or occasional
maintenance items unless they were  present when the car was sold.  An MOT was carried
out a couple of weeks after Miss P bought the car and none  of these things were mentioned,
even in an advisory capacity (which  doesnt mean the cars fails the test but that
Ref: DRN10956865maintenance is needed in the near future).  So I dont currently think  the problems with items
subject to wear and tear can have been  present   or so worn they needed immediate
replacement  when  Miss P bought  the car.
Im intending  to ask First Repair  to pay to repair the following items: the start/stop system,
the ignition issue, the under engine tray (because that should have been there when Miss P
bought the car), the rear wiper motor  and jet and the faulty heating element (and wiring) on
the heated seat. It should also ensure the safety  belts and warning lights  are working  as they
should.
I dont however, think it should  have to pay for items  that are part of the normal  maintenance
carried out by an owner.
I accept that Miss P is unhappy  with some of the garages that have looked at the car, so I
think it reasonable she chooses  a garage shes happy with and gets a quote for the work
listed above. If thats reasonable then First Response can either give Miss P the money to
get the repairs done or pay a garage  of her choosing  once the repairs  are complete. Id
suggest  to avoid delay   that reasonable is within 10% of the amounts quoted by the
car type expert in June 2018.
Ive also taken into account the fact that in the first four months of owning the car (so
between purchase  and the June  inspection)  Miss P drove about 5,000  miles. Between  then
and mid December she drove a further  7,000  miles.  To work that out Ive used mileage
recorded on the MOT  date in mid March and Miss Ps confirmation of mileage in December:
104,576 and 116,800 respectively. Miss P says shes  only used the car for school runs since
September  so much of the mileage (about 12,000 miles overall)  seems to have been  done
in the first seven months. Thats a substantial amount of mileage given the yearly average
for many drivers  is about 8,000  10,000. Overall this suggests Miss P has been able to use
the car despite  the issues shes reported.
I can see from the notes made  by First Response  that Miss P used a hire car for some  of the
time while her car was being inspected (thats between April and June). I think  it took a long
time to establish what was wrong  with the car, and I think First Response could have been
more pro-active in helping things to move  forwards. I dont know  for how much  of this time
the car was off the road,  but Ive seen that First Response did refund a part payment (just
over £100) for this. Im prepared to consider any additional costs Miss P might  have incurred
if she sends me receipts or the equivalent. Ill also consider anything extra First Response
wants to say on this point, and well share  this information between  the parties  before I reach
my final decision.
From what  I can see of how First Response  has dealt with this complaint, I do think its
caused Miss P some trouble and inconvenience. So Im intending to order First Response to
pay the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator.
I realise my current proposals  will disappoint Miss P, and I will take into account any more
evidence she provides before I reach  a final decision.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  and ask First Response Finance Ltd to:
Pay for the necessary repairs to the ignition and start/stop system, the heated seat,
Ref: DRN10956866            wiper motor and jet, the engine tray and any repairs  needed  for the safety belts.
Pay £200 for the trouble and inconvenience Miss Ps had.
Pay a reasonable amount towards  car hire if I find this to be appropriate
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1095686