K820x#14complaint
Ms C, on behalf of the late Mr C, is unhappy  that she and Mr C Jnr were unable to access  
the business funds in their late fathers sole trader account, after notifying The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) of his passing. Ms C says the account being frozen forced  the business 
to a standstill. 
background
As I understand Ms C notified RBS of the late Mr Cs passing around July 2018 and provided 
a certification of his death. RBS froze the account  which presented  various difficulties for the 
business. RBS claim  their records only show that the late Mr C had a sole trader account  
and that he was the only signatory. RBS say they followed  the correct process for sole trader  
accounts upon being advised of the late Mr Cs passing. 
Ms C and Mr C Jnr are unhappy with the actions of RBS. They claim Mr C Jnr has been 
operating the account for many years and signing cheques. They also say RBS was advised 
that the business was been  handed over to Mr C Jnr around 2008. 
RBS however remain firm that their records were never amended and always  remained to 
reflect that the late Mr C was a sole trader and sole signatory  for the account  in question. 
Theyve also suggested a name and signature similarity between the late Mr C and Mr C Jnr 
contributed to the activity on the account  not being  flagged with them sooner.
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Overall she felt RBS had acted  fairly  and in 
line with their processes.  So she didnt think RBS needed to do anything further.
As Ms C and Mr C Jnr remain disappointed with this outcome, the case has now been 
passed to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS processes state that once an account  holder has passed, the account should  be frozen 
as they no longer have authority for the continued  operation of the account. I therefore  dont  
think that RBS acted unfairly by freezing the account  upon receiving notice of the late Mr Cs 
passing.
RBS has advised  that they have no records to suggest a request had been  made  to add Mr 
C Jnr to the account. Im afraid having  reviewed  all the evidence, despite  any meetings that 
may have  taken place  some time ago, Ive seen nothing to show Mr C Jnr was ever added  to 
the account. And as has already been explained   the account in question  was a sole trader  
account. So either Mr C Jnr would  have needed to set up his own account or perhaps  set up 
a new partnership account with the late Mr C. I note RBS has offered £200 compensation in 
recognition that Mr C Jnr should have been  advised this at the time in any event. RBS also 
seem to appreciate  that whilst Mr C Jnr may have operated the account  for many years, this 
is only because his name and signature failed to alert them  to what  was actually  happening.  
I do understand how frustrating this whole situation  is likely  to have been. And I can see 
Ms C wanted the account to be closed and funds transferred to her around  22 August. But I 
Ref: DRN14811412think RBS could only have released  funds to the executor  of the estate.  I can see that once 
RBS received a certified copy of the will, the account was duly closed shortly after. So 
overall I think RBS did act reasonably and followed their internal processes  fairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C, on behalf  of 
the late Mr C, to accept or reject  my decision before 20 August 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1481141