K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC reinvested dividends  in his employers  share 
plan instead of these being  paid to him as cash because it failed to give him suitable  notice 
of his right to elect to accept cash when it took over administration of his account.
background
Mr B is a member of his employers matching share  plan through which he holds shares. 
Barclays took over the administration of the account in 2018.  On becoming responsible for 
administration of the account the shares were transferred to Barclays, but the dividend 
selection of account holders wasnt information that transferred.
Barclays wrote to account holders in October  2018 informing them  of the change  in 
administrator. Dividends  were paid on shares  in May 2019. As Mr B had not specified that he 
wanted the dividends as cash  they were reinvested. Barclays has said that the dividend was 
used to purchase an additional 161 shares  in the scheme.
Mr B complained to Barclays,  but it said he had not responded  to its email of October  2018  
to inform it of his dividend selection.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought the complaint should  be 
upheld. In summary he made the following findings:
The email of October 2018 had warned that some of the information  from the 
previous administrator hadnt  been  migrated to them and also that Mr B needed to 
update his dividend selection  choice.
The need to take action wasnt highlighted and wasnt the first point in the email.
A further  email was sent after May 2019  which provided much clearer information 
about the fact the dividend election had not migrated and if no action was taken the 
default would be to reinvest.
The October 2018 email didnt provide  clear  information about  the need  for action 
regarding dividend  selection.
This appears to be acknowledged by Barclays given the further email in May 2019 
which was much clearer.
Mr B should be put back in the position he wouldve been in if he taken the dividend 
as cash.
Barclays should put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in if he had opted to 
take the dividend as cash.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator. In short it said:
Mr B was informed twice that the dividend would  be reinvested if he didnt notify it to 
the contrary
It isnt fair to hold it responsible for him not reading the information  it sent.
The first email contained various information  including a section that was headed 
important details  to update in your Barclays account.
The investigator didnt  change his opinion but said the following:
The email of October 2018 was headed  Exciting News and there was a significant  
risk this would be identified simply as marketing material  and given little attention.
Ref: DRN12913322A customer might reasonably expect that if they needed to take action this would be 
at the beginning and highlighted.
Barclays didnt need to provide a separate email just in relation to dividend  selection, 
but it did need to make clear action needed to be taken.
It seems  to be acknowledged that the first email  didnt do what it needed to do, given 
that the second email which did make clear the need for action.
Barclays stated that it still didnt agree on the basis that the email  in October 2018 could not 
have pushed the action required beyond what was set out in the email  as it could be seen  to 
be giving  advice that the dividend should  be taken as cash. It also said that the email  was 
clear and concise.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.  
I think the initial email wasnt sufficiently clear that Mr B needed to take action. I am unable  
to see the banner  on the template email Barclays has provided. But Mr B has said that this 
was a girl and dog with a heading a perfect match MS Plan  and a subheading your shares 
have moved. The email then started with Exciting News.
Mr B has referred to this as promotional public relations material that was related to wider 
knowledge that plans were moving  platform. I agree  with Mr B that the email looks  more like 
promotional material about a known move of platform. The email  did then have a heading 
Important details to update in your Barclays account. But I think  even this heading  was 
unclear as I dont  think the word update necessarily  makes  clear that urgent action needs to 
be taken. 
The email  did go on to state that the dividend election had not been  migrated  and explained 
what Mr B needed to do to update his election.  But there was nothing  to suggest there was 
any urgency required  and, I think importantly, no indication that if no election was made  that 
the default option would be that dividends would  be re-invested.
Barclays has said it shouldnt be held responsible for Mr B not reading the email, but I dont 
agree. I think  it is responsible for him not giving  it the attention it needed  because  of the way 
it was laid out and the information it contained.  
Barclays has referred to the follow-up  email that was sent. But this was sent after the 
dividend payment was made on 27 May 2019  so after it was already too late for Mr B to 
elect to have his dividend paid as cash.  Mr B had realised within a short time after the 
dividend was due that something  had gone wrong  and complained to Barclays. The second  
email was therefore of no help to him. I note the second email  states that it has been  sent 
because there had been some questions about  dividend  payments. Barclays  has also 
confirmed to us that the second  email  was sent because of a number of queries from 
customers after the May 2019 dividend
It is of note that the second email explained in more detail what needed to be done to view 
and change the dividend election  and, I think importantly, warned in bold that:
Ref: DRN12913323Your dividend election was not migrated to Barclays and, if no action is taken, the default 
will be dividend  re-investment.
I can see no reason this warning was not part of the original email  in October 2018. Instead 
the first email gave  no sense that there was an urgent need to do anything and said nothing 
about any default option. And the fact that Barclays chose to send  a second email following 
a number of queries  from customers after the May 2019 dividend suggests  the October 
2018 was far from clear  and concise. 
I think it is more  likely than not that if Barclays had made  in the October  2018  email that Mr B 
needed to take action  on his account and warned him about the default option   as it did 
after the May 2019 dividend - he wouldve taken note of what  he needed  to do and wouldve 
instructed it that he wanted his dividends as cash  rather  than for them  to be reinvested.
Barclays has suggested that if it had said anything different  in the email this couldve been  
considered as advice.  I can see no basis for this suggestion. It didnt need to give Mr B any 
indication as to which option he should  choose for his dividends in its initial email. I think it 
just needed to avoid this looking like promotional material, make clear  he needed to take 
action and warn him that if he didnt do anything his dividend would be reinvested.  This is 
what it did in the further email sent after the May 2019 dividend and I can see no reason this 
email couldnt have been sent initially.
What Barclays need to do to put things right.
If Barclays hadnt got things wrong Mr B wouldve have received the dividend as cash  rather  
than it being used to purchase  additional  shares. So, to put things right he should  be paid in 
cash the value  of the dividend.
But account has to be taken of the additional shares  that were  purchased  with the dividend  - 
Mr B isnt entitled to retain the additional shares at the same time as being paid the cash that 
was used to purchase  those shares.  
Barclays has confirmed that the value of the shares is less than the dividend  amount. So, to 
put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been  in if Barclays hadnt got things wrong the 
shares need to be sold at current market value with Mr B to have the benefit of the sale 
proceeds. Barclays also needs to pay Mr B the difference between the current sale value of 
the shares and the dividend amount. 
In addition, Barclays has to pay simple interest  at 8% on the dividend amount from the date 
this shouldve been paid to Mr B in 2019 to the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Barclays  Bank UK PLC has to 
calculate and pay redress to Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B before 
14 November 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1291332