K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited hasnt dealt properly 
with his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr T ordered a sofa online from a retailer for £199. He waited  for delivery  of the item at his 
home on the day the retailer  set. The sofa didnt turn up.
The retailer  had cancelled the order and made a refund to Mr Ts American Express  credit 
card. Mr T says this happened without him being  told by the retailer.  
Mr T raised  queries with the retailer but says he was ignored. So he made a claim under 
section 75 to American Express. He said the retailer had breached the contract  for the 
supply of the sofa and American  Express should put this right by:
arranging itself the re-ordering and delivery of the sofa or
crediting his account with enough points to cover the financial equivalent of his costs 
of re-arranging  the order and delivery  of the sofa or 
paying him £1,999.99 as his costs  for re-arranging  the order and delivery.
American Express considered Mr Ts claim  but decided it didnt need  to do anything  to 
compensate him. This was because the retailer hadnt, in American  Expresss  view, 
committed a breach of contract. American Express said the terms and conditions of the 
retailer allowed it not to proceed with Mr Ts order. 
Mr T disagreed with this assessment and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. She concluded American  Express  had dealt 
with Mr Ts claim fairly. She later accepted the retailer had committed a minor breach of 
contract by not telling Mr T it wasnt going to fulfil his order. But this made no material 
difference.
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. His main point is that the retailer  did indeed  
commit a major breach of contract  which caused  him substantial consequential losses  of 
around £1,800,  and its these losses that he says American Express  should compensate him 
for.
Mr T says a contract  term that would allow the retailer to cancel an accepted order, as he 
thought the retailer had done in his case,  would be unfair and invalid.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I too have 
decided his complaint doesnt succeed.  
The relevant  term of the contract says:
Completion of the online checkout process does not constitute our acceptance of your offer 
to purchase products or services from us. We will notify you by email as soon as possible to 
Ref: DRN16798242acknowledge that we have received and are processing your order. Our acceptance of 
your order will take place only when we despatch the product This will be no later 
than one week after we have received payment  from you. Prior to the despatch of the 
product, [the retailer] has the right to decline  an order for any reason
The words  in bold are my emphasis. 
On this basis, Im satisfied American  Express took a reasonable view when saying the 
retailer hadnt committed a breach  of contract. On the apparent facts, there was no binding 
contract for the sale and purchase of the sofa, because the retailer, which  never despatched 
the sofa to Mr T, hadnt accepted Mr Ts order. 
The ombudsman service  isnt a court and we have no power to decide  whats  an unfair  
contract term. But its a feature of the law of the sale of retail goods that its the customer  
who makes an offer to buy, and the retailer then has the final word of deciding  whether or 
not to accept the customers offer.  Only when acceptance takes place  does a binding 
contract come into being. The retailers standard terms  appear  to reflect  this feature, 
adapted to the online  environment.
If the retailer failed  to inform Mr T his order hadnt  been accepted,  I regard that as effectively 
a customer services issue to be addressed by the retailer. I dont think theres a case for 
American Express to have to pay financial compensation  for the lapse. 
The important point  is that the retailer promptly repaid the £199 and re-credited Mr Ts credit  
card account  with American  Express.  On the facts, I dont think anything  more was required.  
Although its not strictly  necessary  for me to say more, Id add that, even if Id thought a 
breach of contract had occurred, I wouldnt necessarily have concluded  the retailer  had to do 
more than repay the purchase price. These  were generic  goods  with no unique qualities. 
Specific performance of the contract   thats  to say the physical delivery of the goods as a 
remedy  would therefore have been out of the question. It would normally  be enough  for the 
buyer to go back to the market with the refunded  money and buy the same or a similar 
generic product, without suffering any financial loss. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1679824