K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Embark Services Limited (trading as Hornbuckle) did not identify 
an issue with the anticipated rent to be paid to his pension scheme from the letting of a 
commercial property. Mr F says that the error was that it failed to notice a discrepancy  
between the actual rent that the company renting the commercial property had agreed to pay 
and the market value rent determined by a surveyor. The rent determined  by the surveyor 
(and therefore essentially permitted by pension  legislation) was lower  than the agreed rent. 
This was only identified after the property  purchase by the pension scheme had taken place. 
Mr F says this has resulted in potential future loss of annual rent over a 15 year lease.
background
Mr F is a director of a company along  with four other directors  who are also members of a 
group SIPP. The company  was the owner of its registered office  and this was being leased  
by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mr Fs company. Since 2008 the subsidiary paid an annual 
rent of £330,000 to Mr Fs company.
Around June 2017, the members of the SIPP approached their financial advisers,  saying that 
they would  like the group SIPP to purchase  the registered office.
A survey was conducted by property surveyors in September  2017  which  concluded that the 
market value rent was £250,000 a year.
Following this, the financial advisers  produced  a letter on 9 November 2017. The letter  set 
out that, The independent valuation carried out by (valuers) on 13th September 2017 valued 
the property at a market  value of £2,650,000 and at an insurance reinstatement cost of 
£4,500,000. The valuation stated that the market  rental value would be in the region of 
£250,000 per annum.
The directors of FES Limited  involved in the property purchase  wish to pay the same  level
of rental  income  for the property of £330,000 rather than the £250,000 market  value. The
SIPP provider Hornbuckle has advised  that this is acceptable and a new 15 year rental
lease is being  drawn up at an annual  rent of £330,000 per annum.
The sale of the registered office was completed in December 2017. A lease was prepared 
stipulating the rental  income of £330,000.
Hornbuckle raised a rent invoice  on 15 January 2018 for about  £62,000  for the period 
covering 21 December 2017 to 27 February  2018.  A second invoice was raised by 
Hornbuckle on 5 April 2018 for about £82,000 for the period covering 28 February 2018 to
27 May 2018.
The financial  adviser then informed Mr F and the other members that Hornbuckle would not 
sign the lease  as prepared. It advised the rent would have to be £250,000 per annum in line 
with the market valuation. 
A letter of complaint was then sent to Hornbuckle, saying that it had been  remiss it not 
identifying the issue with the level of rent to be paid before the property purchase. It upheld  
the complaint  partially and suggested that a new valuation be conducted by a new RICS 
surveyor. The second valuation  of July 2018 confirmed  the market  value rent as being about 
£258,000 a year.
Ref: DRN14279152Hornbuckle then issued a final response letter rejecting the complaint. It said it was not 
solely responsible  for identifying the potential issue with the level of rent. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service  and it was considered by an adjudicator. 
She said that Mr F and the other pension members were buying a connected property, 
through their group SIPP.  This made  Hornbuckle  the legal owners of the property. 
She said that HMRC  had strict guidelines about  the receipt of rental payments from 
connected parties. She set out that the pension tax manual says that, A member of a 
scheme could rent a property owned  by the pension  scheme but would have  to pay the 
commercial rent due on the property. Failure to pay the commercial amount of rent for the 
property would lead to an unauthorised payment  tax charge. 
She said that Hornbuckle was the Scheme  Administrator of the SIPP and acted  on 
instructions provided  by either the member of the SIPP or their appointed professional  
advisers. It was also responsible for running  the scheme in line with the applicable rules.
She considered that whilst the total rental  of £330,000 per annum had been paid for the last 
10 years,  there was no formal lease in place  between  the inter group companies for rental of 
the property. In such circumstances she couldnt expect Hornbuckle as an administrator to 
accept rental  payments  over and above the market  value confirmed by the chartered 
surveyor as this would lead into an unauthorised payment tax charge.  
She also noted that whilst  Hornbuckle  had not noticed the difference  in rent on the purchase 
documentation, it was known to the members financial adviser and was communicated  to 
the members through its suitability letter. It was her opinion that at this point  the members  
and the IFA should have  explored the situation a bit further and checked  the rules  and 
requirements for connected parties before proceeding with the purchase.
She considered that in its role as administrators, Hornbuckle were  not required  to provide 
any investment advice to financial advisers  or members. Nor was it responsible  for the 
suitability of the investments held within the SIPP.  Its role was to ensure that the commercial  
property held within the SIPP is a permitted asset  and is held in line with the legislation  and 
the HMRC rules.
As an administrator Hornbuckle had tried to resolve  matters by organising a second
independent valuation and also by considering if they could accept the historic payments,
provided there was a formal lease in place.  
She was satisfied that although higher rental  payments  had been accepted by the SIPP
for the period covering December 2017  to May 2018, Hornbuckle had taken measures to
ensure that the SIPP remained in the correct position avoiding unauthorised payment  tax
charges by HMRC.
Whilst she agreed that the issue of the rent could have been identified  by Hornbuckle during  
the process prior to the purchase she didnt think it wasnt responsible for doing so. 
Especially considering that the members and their financial adviser  had proceeded with the 
transaction in the knowledge  that there  was a disparity. So she did not hold Hornbuckle
responsible for the error.
Ref: DRN14279153The representative of the SIPP members responded,  disagreeing with the adjudicators 
response. In summary it said:
Hornbuckle should never have allowed the transaction to complete. It had 
professional and trustee responsibilities to be satisfied  that the proposed purchase 
did comply with the scheme  and the law including HMRC Regulations - which are 
part of legislation  and enforceable.
It was the responsibility  of Hornbuckle to require,  prior to the purchase,  that the 
independent valuation was available which detailed the market rental position. It did 
not do that. Hornbuckle failed in its duty and allowed the transaction  to go ahead  
without identifying what the law required  as rental.
Embark/Hornbuckle allowed the transaction to take place even although it was not a 
permitted asset.  This is not just a matter  of providing financial advice. It was its 
obligation to comply with the HMRC Rules in which they are the expert.
Hornbuckle did not ask any of the members for a copy of the lease showing the 
rental payment  of £330,000.
It was because of the actions  of Embark/Hornbuckle that there  was agreement to the 
higher rent from the outset. It acted so as to issue erroneous  invoices and collected 
the payments.  The lease was also drafted to include the higher rental. Accordingly, 
Embark/Hornbuckle was well aware of the position  before the transaction completed.
The adjudicator considered the points raised by the representative. However, she was not 
persuaded to change  her opinion. 
She was satisfied that Hornbuckle had played its part as an administrator in the completion 
of the property purchase. It had a responsibility to ensure  that the commercial property the 
members were purchasing was a permitted asset,  which it was. 
The independent valuation by the first surveyor was carried out in September  2017 and the 
property purchase was completed  in December 2017. So she was satisfied that the valuation 
was completed well ahead of the purchase.  
Hornbuckle had requested  a copy of the lease showing a rental payment of £330,000. The 
adjudicator had seen evidence that the financial adviser had asked for this from Mr F but 
there wasnt a formal lease in place between the inter-group companies for rental of the 
property.
She had considered Hornbuckles actions in line with the terms and conditions  and was 
satisfied that it had performed its duties. 
Mr Fs representative  requested that the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the findings 
of the adjudicator. 
Ref: DRN14279154It does not seem to be disputed that HMRC regulation  with respect  to connected parties  
applies here. But in any event, given the nature  of the lease, the lessor,  the lessee,  the 
members of the pension  scheme, the companies  involved and the directors of those 
companies, I believe it likely that the connected  provisions  apply  here and it is, and was, 
reasonable for Hornbuckle to consider the issue of the rent to be paid on that basis.
Two independent  valuations  have  been  provided  which both value the market rent of the 
property concerned at approximately  £250,000. This is clearly less than the £330,000 rent 
that had previously been paid before the purchase  of the property by the pension scheme. 
Put simply, because  the connected  party provisions apply, a market  rent is applicable (rather 
than necessarily any other agreed rent between the lessor and the lessee). Otherwise  there 
will likely be consequences - such as unauthorised pension payment charges. 
It seems  to be submitted  that Hornbuckle are liable because it should have noticed the 
discrepancy between  the rent payable and the market rent before it carried  out the property 
transaction. I do agree that Hornbuckle has its own responsibilities and indeed it did identify 
the issue with the level of rent, albeit  after the property purchase had been made. But the 
matter should  have been identified before  the request was made of Hornbuckle to proceed 
with the purchase. 
In my view this issue should have been  identified before the request for Hornbuckle to 
complete the transaction. Mr F as a pension scheme  member and his financial adviser were 
aware of the difference between the rent to be paid and the market  rent and therefore were  
in an informed position to identify this issue before  Hornbuckle was asked to complete the 
purchase. I have seen  an email from Mr Fs financial adviser  dated  13 November 2017 to the 
pension scheme  members which enclosed the market  valuation. I have also seen a letter  
dated of 9 November 2017 from the scheme  members financial adviser which  sets out he is 
facilitating and giving  advice as to the property purchase. The letter sets out that the market  
valuation rent is £250,000  but that £330,000 is to be paid. So the members and their 
financial adviser should have been aware this was an issue before the transaction 
completed. I do note that the letter also says that Hornbuckle has said that the payment of 
£330,000 is acceptable but I have not seen  any evidence to corroborate  that. In any event, 
the members and their firm of financial advisers were aware of the rental valuation and had 
the opportunity  to explore  and check this further.  It is not in my view reasonable to place the 
liability for this matter on Hornbuckle in these circumstances   it was not the party  materially  
responsible for the issue that arose with respect  to the rent level.   
It should be noted that Hornbuckle is not Mr Fs financial adviser and it does not, and did not, 
provide him with advice as to the suitability of the property purchase by the pension.  It acts 
as administrator of the pension scheme  and takes  instructions  from the pension  member. It 
does have its own responsibilities in terms of administering the scheme correctly in line with 
the applicable regulations.  But, as I have discussed, it is not liable for the issue  that has 
arisen with the rent level that is complained  of here.  
I note that Hornbuckle  did explore, after the issue with rent became apparent, whether there 
was evidence that could lead to the £330,000 rent level being acceptable. But there was 
insufficient evidence  to support that.
I would note that even if this complaint  was upheld, which I dont believe it should be, the 
redress wouldnt be the shortfall in the rent payment.  That higher level wouldnt have been  
paid to the pension scheme if Hornbuckle  had identified  the discrepancy  earlier.  The most 
Ref: DRN14279155likely scenario would be that the pension scheme  members  would  have been  faced with a 
choice of either proceeding with the purchase  and accepting  the lower  rent (which  is the 
position I believe exists  now) or not proceeding with the purchase. If the latter, then the 
remediation would be to unwind  the purchase, not for Hornbuckle  to pay the shortfall in rent. 
Any potential unwinding  of the property purchase is something Mr F could discuss with 
Hornbuckle.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out in this decision, I do not uphold the complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN1427915