K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about the set up and administration of his annuity.  In August 2018 ReAssure 
Limited (ReAssure) provided him with a quotation for a non-escalating joint life annuity 
guaranteed for 10 years, together with a tax-fee  lump sum. Mr J has said that, in October  
2018, after he had agreed to start the annuity, ReAssure provided him with a new reduced 
annual income  figure  even though  the value of his plan had increased.
He also complains ReAssure sent him two letters in October 2018 with different guarantee 
periods but the same  annuity amount. 
Mr J believes  that ReAssure calculated  his annuity  income incorrectly. Specifically, he 
doesnt accept  its explanation that figures  provided in August 2018  were incorrect because 
an incorrect birth date was used for his spouse.  
background 
Mr J held a pension plan that paid a guaranteed annual pension at an assumed retirement 
age of 75 years old. He contacted ReAssure in 2018 to find out about taking an income from 
the plan at the earlier age of 65 years. ReAssure sent him a quotation in August 2018 for a 
non-escalating joint life annuity.  It quoted a tax- free lump sum and different annual  incomes 
depending on whether the guarantee period was five or ten years. Mr J decided to go ahead 
with setting up the annuity and he also decided to take a tax-free  lump  sum.
In October  2018 ReAssure sent Mr J two further  letters confirming his annuity  had started.  
Those letters gave  the same pension figures  (albeit different to that sent in August), but one 
was described as based on a five-year guarantee period and the other on a ten-year 
guarantee period. 
Mr J contacted ReAssure  and complained that he had received two contradictory letters.  He 
also complained  that while the lump sum had increased slightly  in these more recent letters  
in comparison with the figure provided  to him in August,  his annual income had reduced.    
Mr J said that must be wrong  as he had a fixed annuity rate. He also pointed out that the 
plan value had increased, so he didnt  think the annual income figure was correct.  
ReAssure apologised  for sending Mr J two conflicting letters  and confirmed that the five-year 
guarantee period letter was incorrect.  But it explained that it had checked  its calculations 
and the annual income figure provided  in the ten-year guarantee letter  was correct. 
Mr J was not satisfied with the explanation  provided by ReAssure and referred his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator considered his complaint and felt it should be upheld  in part. She asked  
ReAssure for more information  about how it had calculated Mr Js annual  income. ReAssure  
explained it had used an assumed birth date for Mr Js spouse when carrying  out the annual  
income calculation  in August 2018, rather than her actual birth date.
The investigator noted the guaranteed  income figures for the plan were  based on a single 
life, level basis without  escalation or guarantee. She said it was open  for Mr J to take his 
benefits on a different  basis  (as he had done) but that would be factored into the income  he 
would receive.
The investigator was satisfied on balance that ReAssure  had set up Mr Js annuity correctly.  
But she felt ReAssure hadnt provided Mr J with sufficient explanation about what  had gone 
Ref: DRN17607032wrong, in its response  to his complaint. She also took into account that it had provided  Mr J 
with incorrect information in October 2018.  So, the investigator said ReAssure  should  pay  
Mr J £200 for the trouble and upset  caused. 
Mr J didnt agree with the amount of compensation offered. He also didnt accept ReAssures 
explanation, because his wife was older  than him. So, he said as the annuity was 
recalculated in October using her correct (older)  birth date, it should have resulted in a 
higher income  amount,  rather  than the lower amount quoted by ReAssure. 
The investigator asked  ReAssure to explain how the annual  income  had reduced when the 
calculation was carried out correctly using the correct older birth date (older than Mr J) as 
opposed to the assumed birth date (three years younger than Mr J).
ReAssure responded and said it had provided  incorrect figures in August 2018. It repeated 
its stance that in those  calculations  it had used its standard basis of assuming that Mr J's 
spouse was three years  younger than him, so the figures were incorrect.
ReAssure then gave  the figures it should  have quoted on 20 August 2018 using Mr J's 
spouse correct  date of birth. Those figures were  lower.  It confirmed that the value of the plan 
had increased  between that date and the retirement  benefits being taken. So, it said the 
annual income  figure  had increased if it was compared with the correct figure that should  
have been given in August.
ReAssure acknowledged  that incorrect details had been  given  to Mr J and agreed  to pay 
£200 in compensation. 
Mr J didnt agree with the proposal and as no agreement could be reached between the 
parties Mr Js complaint was referred  to me for review.
We asked ReAssure for further  clarification as to the nature of the error it had made in its 
calculations and how that had resulted in a lower  income, taking into account what it had 
said about using  an incorrect  younger birth date for Mr Js wife.
ReAssure said it had used an incorrect birth date in one of the steps of the annuity 
conversion. It had produced an incorrect amount  when it converted  from a joint life annuity  
with a five-year guarantee with a spouse of three  years younger, to a joint life annuity with a 
ten-year guarantee  with the correct spouse  date of birth.  It also provided some further details 
of the incorrect and correct calculations. 
We again asked  ReAssure for some further  clarification about the errors in its calculation 
and the annuity figure  for the five-year guaranteed period  provided  in the August 2018 
quote. ReAssure  confirmed that the £3,343 figure  in the August 2018 correspondence  
should never had been  quoted and that it was not a valid calculation.  
Ref: DRN17607033It also confirmed that there  was, in effect,  an extra step in the calculations  that shouldnt  
have taken place,  whereby the five-year guaranteed period figure was adjusted for the 
spouses age when it shouldnt have been.  It said that the standard basis should have been  
used. So, it wasnt just the incorrect birth date being used  it was the calculation  itself that 
was incorrect. And this was the result of human error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J held a buy out pension plan. It provided  a guaranteed pension  at an assumed 
retirement age of 75 years. Mr J was looking to take the annual income from his pension  at 
an earlier age, of 65 years. So, he contacted ReAssure to ask for a quote and to arrange 
this. Because  the guaranteed pension under the plan was provided  at a later age, ReAssure  
had to work out what the benefits  would be if they were taken at 65.
This was not a straight  forward calculation as the plan provided  a guaranteed benefit  at a 
specified age. The cost of providing  that guaranteed  income  at 75 years  would have  a value 
that could be calculated as a transfer value. Part of that transfer value would then be 
commuted to give a tax-free cash sum. There would then be a reduced annuity to account 
for the tax- free lump sum.
ReAssure has explained it had to apply a hybrid  annuity rate to work out what that 
guaranteed income should  be at 65. It also offered two different guaranteed periods and the 
number of guaranteed years would affect  the amount  of income  provided.  So, the ten- year 
guaranteed period would  provide a smaller income  than the five-year guaranteed period. 
There were several stages in the calculation. During  those stages  the values would need to 
be converted from the original guaranteed amounts to the relevant amounts for the new 
earlier age. There was also an added complication in that two sets of calculations  were 
produced to cover both the five-year and ten-year  guaranteed  periods.
ReAssure has explained it made  an error at one stage of the calculation when it used an 
assumed age for Mr Js spouse of three years younger than Mr J. But it has said it then used  
the correct birth date for Mr Js wife at a later stage in the calculation. 
ReAssure has also clarified  that the calculation itself was not carried out correctly.  It has said 
the joint life annuity with a five-year guaranteed period was adjusted for the spouses  age 
when it shouldnt have  been because the standard basis  should have been used.  It has 
explained that the five-year guaranteed  period figure  in the August 2018 correspondence  
should never have  been  quoted because  it wasnt a valid calculation. And I am satisfied this 
had a knock-on  effect on the ten-year  guaranteed period figure.  Because the five-year 
guaranteed period figure was converted to produce  the ten-year guarantee period amount.
I do appreciate Mr Js point that when  calculating an annuity, you would normally expect the 
correction of the birth date from a younger person to an older  person  to result in a higher 
annuity amount.  Generally, an older  person is likely  to receive a larger annuity than a 
younger person  because  their life expectancy is less. But I dont think in his case it was as 
simple as that, because  other aspects of the calculation were carried out incorrectly.
Ref: DRN17607034I am satisfied on balance that ReAssure has now carried out the calculation correctly. I note 
it has checked the relevant figures  on several  occasions during the complaint process.  And 
weve interrogated the calculation and its methodology on several occasions now.
ReAssure has set out what the correct  amounts should have been  in the August 2018 
calculation, if it had been carried out correctly.  The relevant figure is lower than the amount  
Mr J received, which now makes more sense. 
Mr J has also questioned  why the annual income figures went down while the overall value 
of the plan went up. The value of a plan such as this can, and does often fluctuate, because  
the value is the cost of providing  the benefits  under the plan. And that can change, for 
example if annuity  rates  change. 
But in any case,  here I can see that if you look at what  the correct  quoted  annuity  figure  
should have been in August 2018 and compare it with the annuity figure Mr J received in 
November 2018,  there  is a small increase  which is broadly in line with the increase in the 
fund value.
I take into account that ReAssure accepted  it made  a mistake in August 2018 and it has 
since checked those  calculations on more than one occasion.  It has also now given  some  
further detail as to how this error  led to the incorrect figures.  So, as Ive said, I am satisfied 
on balance that it has carried  out those checks and that the annuity has now been  set up 
correctly. 
But I dont think a sufficiently full explanation was provided to Mr J by ReAssure when  he 
made his complaint. 
In its response letter  of 31 October  2018 ReAssure said:
Any figures that we quote are never guaranteed and we calculate  the final value of your 
policy and payments on your retirement date. So although the final policy value and tax free 
cash amounts were higher, your annuity  payments are calculated using our annuity rates  at 
the time These can change and it is feasible  that your annuity payments can be lower, even 
if the fund value has increased.
It then said in its later response  letter of 5 November 2018:
Regarding your annuity payments Im unable to add anything to the comments in my letter 
dated 31 October 2018. The payments you are receiving are correct  and the figures have 
been checked by our Actuarial Department.  The confirmation we sent to you on 05 October 
2018 states that we have worked  out your pension  using our annuity  rates  and that the rates  
used to convert a pension  into an annuity, may vary between insurance companies. Were 
not able to provide the calculations we use to our customers, as this is industry sensitive 
information.
So, it appears at that stage ReAssure wasnt aware that there  had been an error in 
calculating Mr Js annuity income in August 2018.  It just confirmed that the amounts  were  
correct without giving further explanation in relation to the change.  
It was later that ReAssure  informed  Mr J that there had been an error in calculating  the 
original quote,  because it had used an incorrect assumed  birth date for his wife rather than 
her actual birth date. 
Ref: DRN17607035Mr J received two letters  in October  2018 with conflicting information and a smaller annual  
income figure then previously quoted  despite having  an increase in his tax-free  lump  sum. 
So, I think it was reasonable for him to be concerned at this, to raise  these issues  and be 
provided with an explanation.  
I wouldnt necessarily expect ReAssure  to have given Mr J commercially  sensitive 
information about its annuity rates. However, I dont think it addressed the legitimate query 
raised by Mr J about a perceived anomaly in how ReAssure arrived at a smaller annual 
income. I also dont consider it properly explained to Mr J how the spouse birth date had 
impacted the calculations,  so the result  was a lower income  figure, when he questioned this.
It also took some time, and repeated requests  from this service, to receive a more  
comprehensive explanation of what had happened.
I think Mr J was quite understandably caused trouble and upset by being  provided with 
incorrect information in August  2018  and then contradictory information in the letters  sent to 
him in October  2018. It would have been  very disappointing for Mr J to receive less than he 
anticipated for his annual  pension income. I consider it would also have been  frustrating  to 
have to wait for a clear explanation to his questions. So overall,  I think £300 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Js complaint  against ReAssure Limited is upheld in part for the 
reasons outlined and it should  pay £300  compensation  to Mr J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1760703