K820x#14Complaint
Ms G complains that Sytner Group  Ltd mis-sold her insurance in conjunction  with a hire 
purchase (HP) agreement.
The insurance in question was a regular  premium policy that included life and critical  illness 
(LCI) cover  and guaranteed asset  protection (GAP) cover.
Background
Ms G entered into a HP agreement when she bought a car in 2009. At the same time, Sytner 
sold her the insurance  policy.
The policy cost £17.01 a month. The LCI covered Ms G in the event of her death or her 
diagnosis with a critical illness   and it would have  provided a lump  sum equal to the 
outstanding balance on her HP agreement following a successful claim.
The GAP  covered Ms G for any shortfall between her motor insurers  settlement and the 
outstanding balance on her HP agreement if her car was written off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LCI sale
Ive decided this cover wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Sytner ought to have  explained to Ms G that she had a choice about taking out the cover  
and get her agreement  for it to be added.
I dont know for sure what was said during the sale, but I can see Ms G signed a form 
headed Payment Protection  Insurance, which included six different insurance options  
available to her. The first option was No Cover  and the last  and most expensive   option 
was for LCI and GAP  cover together with accident,  sickness and unemployment cover (also 
knows as payment protection cover  or PPI). Theres a handwritten tick next to the option  for 
LCI and GAP cover.  PPI cover wasnt selected.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that Sytner gave Ms G a choice about 
purchasing LCI and GAP  cover and that she agreed to buy it.
If Sytner recommended the policy to Ms G, it had to check  that it was right for her. I dont 
know what checks it made but, based on what  Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was right for her. For example:
 
Ms G was eligible  for the policy. And she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, 
or limits on, the cover. 
Ref: DRN11714532Ms G seems  to have had a need for the cover   although she may have had life 
cover elsewhere, she was married and had a financial dependent to support. It could 
have been useful for her and her family to have  additional protection  to specifically 
cover the outstanding  balance of the HP agreement. And I cant see that Ms G had 
critical illness cover elsewhere. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the LCI was unaffordable for Ms G. And it was flexible in 
that Ms G could have  cancelled the cover at any time if she decided  it was no longer 
suitable for her.
Sytner also had to ensure it gave Ms G clear  information about the LCI to allow  her to make 
an informed decision about  whether  to take it. As Ive said, I think that Ms G chose to take it 
out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have provided 
useful and affordable protection for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think better  
information about the LCI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
GAP sale
Ms G hasnt given a detailed explanation as to why she believes this cover was mis-sold. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered all of the evidence surrounding the sale.
Having done so, I dont believe the GAP insurance was mis-sold. I say that because, for 
instance, for the reasons  set out above  I think Ms G was aware she had a choice about 
taking the cover and she decided  to go ahead with it.
And I cant see that Ms G didnt have a need  for protection against  there  being  a shortfall 
between any settlement in the event of the car being  written off and the amount shed have 
owed under the HP agreement. The GAP policy appears to have  met that need.
Im satisfied Sytner told Ms G how much  the monthly premium for the policy was (including 
LCI cover), and also told her the total shed pay for the policy  over the term of the HP 
agreement. And I havent seen anything to indicate  that the policy was otherwise unsuitable 
for her.
summary
Overall, I dont  think Ms Gs lost out because of how Sytner sold her the LCI and GAP  cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1171453