K821x#15Complaint
Mr J has complained that Morses Club PLC acted irresponsibly when it provided him with 
unaffordable home credit  loans. 
Background
This complaint is about five home collected credit  loans Morses Club provided to Mr J 
between October 2013 and September 2015. Mr J was also provided  with a loan prior to the 
first one thats the subject of this complaint. But, for reasons that have already been  
explained to the parties,  the complaint about  that loan hasnt been looked  at as part of this 
complaint. However,  Ive taken it into consideration when looking at the overall  lending  
pattern.
This table  includes  some  of the information provided to us by Morses  Club about Mr Js 
loans. Loan 1 is not subject to this complaint.
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 10/06/2013 27/02/2014 50 weeks £350.00
2 17/10/2013 14/08/2014 50 weeks £300.00
3 27/06/2014 16/12/2014 50 weeks £400.00
4 14/08/2014 02/09/2015 50 weeks £300.00
5 16/12/2014 30/05/2017 50 weeks £400.00
6 02/09/2015 31/10/2017 50 weeks £300.00
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint about  loans  3-6. She considered that if Morses Club 
had done proportionate  checks, it would likely have discovered that Mr J was having 
problems managing his money  and by loan 6 the pattern of borrowing suggested he had 
become reliant  on this form of loan.
Mr J didnt disagree with our adjudicators view. Morses Club agreed  to make an offer on 
loan 6 but didnt agree with the conclusion in respect  of loans 3-5 and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account all the key 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Morses  Club lent loans 3-6 
to Mr J. The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for 
credit-related regulated  activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer 
credit providers, such as Morses Club. 
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN14070872But certain factors might  point to the fact that Morses  Club should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Morses Club says its checks were  proportionate  at the time it provided these loans to Mr J. It 
says it asked Mr J for his income and outgoings and this showed he had disposable income  
of £266 per week. It says his income was high in relation to the highest repayment of £10.50  
per week.
Ive carefully thought  about what Morses Club has said.  But I think that it is overlooking the 
fact that loan 3 was provided while Mr J was still making payments to loan 2. And, by the 
time Mr J took out loan 3, he had been borrowing  continuously for over 12 months. In 
addition, he needed  to sustain his repayments  for loan 3 over a further  50 weeks. I also think  
Morses Club ought to have realised by this point, that Mr J did not truly have the weekly  
disposable income of £266, otherwise he wouldnt  have needed  to borrow  a loan of £400.
So by the time Mr J asked  for loan 3, Morses  Club should have done more than rely on the 
information Mr J was providing about his finances.  I think it should have taken steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Js actual financial position. As Morses  Club chose to 
continue proceeding with an over-optimistic declaration of Mr Js disposable  income, I dont 
think that Morses Clubs  checks  before providing Mr J with loans 3 -6 were  fair, reasonable 
or proportionate.
I dont know exactly what proportionate  checks would have shown. Mr J provided  us with his 
bank statements and his credit file. And I think this information is the best indication  I have of 
what Mr Js actual financial circumstances were like at the time.
Morses Club was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
Ref: DRN14070873It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, although  Mr J had a good payment history, it doesnt automatically  follow  that he 
managed to repay his loans in a sustainable  way. And the regulations are quite clear that 
Morses Club needed to assess the whether the credit it agreed  was affordable in a 
sustainable manner.  
Looking at Mr Js actual  financial  circumstances  at the time he took loans 3 -5 (June 2014- 
December 2014), I can see he had a substantial  pay day loan outstanding at the time loan 3 
was agreed. In fact, he had been borrowing  £1,000  more or less each month  back to back 
for the previous six months  and this relationship continued throughout 2014.  There  were 
other (perhaps less significant in terms of upholding the complaint) indications that Mr J was 
having problems  managing his money. Apart  from a few days each month  after his income 
was paid into the account, along with the payday  loan mentioned above, he spent most of 
the month overdrawn;  incurring overdraft usage fees.  As the adjudicator mentioned, there  
some transactions to online  betting  sites; although  these varied in frequency  and were more  
significant in the run up to loan 5.
But overall, I think there is enough here to safely conclude that Mr J was having problems 
managing his money and Morses Club ought  reasonably to have discovered that through  
proportionate checks. So, I am upholding Mr Js complaint about  loans  3-5.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Morse Clubs  lending  history with Mr J, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Morses  Club should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses Club should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1 and 5 of Mr J taking new loans 
shortly after taking  out or repaying the previous ones  and often  overlapping with one 
another. I think that by loan 6, Morses  Club ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have 
regarded that pattern  as established.
So Morses Club ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr J was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans were  leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Js indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr J wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Morses  Club.  
Loan 6 was taken out over two years  after loan 1. It (along with overlapping loan 5) 
was twice the amount Mr J borrowed on loan 1. 
Ref: DRN14070874I think that Mr J lost out because Morses  Club continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6. 
This loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit. The number of loans  and length of time over which  they were taken was 
more likely than not to have had negative  implications  on Mr Js ability  to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 6 as well as loans  3 to 5 and Morses  Club should  
put things right as set out below:
Putting things  right
Morses Club shouldnt  have given Mr J loans 3-6. In order  to put things right for Mr J.
A.Morses Club should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans
B.Morses Club should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  
by Mr J which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.Morses Club should pay Mr J the total of A plus B.
D.Morses Club should remove  any adverse  information it has recorded on Mr Js credit  
file in relation  to loans 3-5. The overall pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about  it is adverse, so Morses Club should remove this 
loan entirely from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses  Club to deduct tax from this interest. Morses Club 
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Js complaint as Ive explained  above,  and I 
require Morses Club PLC to put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1407087