K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the way Vitality Health Limited administered her private medical 
insurance policy and because they declined  a claim she made on it. 
background
In 2016 Mrs M took out a private  medical  insurance  policy with Vitality. She explained shed  
previously had skin cancer and an exclusion  was applied to the policy.  The following year, 
around the time the policy was due for renewal, Mrs M says she was contacted  by a broker  
offering her a policy with cover for her condition. And she explained she spoke to Vitality and 
they confirmed  theyd also offer cover if she stayed with them.  So she stayed with Vitality. 
In September  2018 Mrs M was diagnosed with skin cancer again and was told it wasnt  
covered. So Mrs M sought  treatment  via the NHS and made a complaint  to Vitality because  
she thought the exclusion  had been lifted at the point  of renewal. 
In December 2018 Vitality  confirmed the exclusion had been  removed from her plan and 
offered to reassess  the claim. They accepted the advisor hadnt made it clear Mrs M would 
need to ask for a review and if shed  made  that request the exclusion wouldve been lifted. 
Mrs Ms claim has been reassessed and accepted for cover, subject to the remaining policy  
terms. Vitality  offered Mrs M a total of £350  compensation and a bouquet of flowers in 
recognition of what had gone wrong.  
Mrs M also raised a further complaint in relation  to a separate claim.  She contacted Vitality 
to arrange treatment for a different condition and was passed to a third party provider. Mrs M 
says she wasnt happy her personal information  was passed onto a different business.  She 
told us that she hadnt  had any closure  or compensation for this. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He said Vitality had accepted they didnt  
explain the exclusion review properly. He acknowledged that, if the exclusion hadnt  been in 
place at the time of the claim in September, Mrs M wouldve been able to arrange private 
treatment. He also acknowledged that Mrs M was concerned shed have to stay with Vitality 
for another  year and accept an increase  in the cost of her policy.  So he recommended 
Vitality pay the cost of any treatment  which took place in the first three  months after 
February 2019 even  if she moved insurer (provided it would be covered by the policy 
anyway). He also recommended Vitality increased the compensation  to £500. 
The investigator also agreed Vitality couldve been clearer Mrs Ms other claim would be 
handled by a third party.  But he noted  this was in the terms and conditions  which  Mrs M had 
accepted. So he didnt think any further  compensation  was due for this issue. 
Vitality responded  to say they were  happy  to increase the level of compensation to £500 but 
they wouldnt be able to consider covering claims for a member  thats  no longer with them. 
They said Mrs M wouldnt be tied into a 12 month contract so she could renew for a shorter 
period and theyd  waive  the £40 administration fee when she wanted to leave. 
Mrs M explained  there have been a number of problems  with the treatment shes  received 
on the NHS including having to wait longer for treatment than she would if shed have seen a 
private specialist and her test results being lost after a large biopsy on her breast.  This has 
meant shes had to undergo a second  stressful  and invasive procedure to take a further 
biopsy. 
Ref: DRN14796292She didnt  think £500  compensation  was fair and explained she didnt think Vitality would 
cover the specific type of laser treatment her consultant had recommended.  She said this 
would cost around £1500 so she thought compensation in that region  would  be fairer. 
Mrs M provided  pictures of the scar and further  comments in which she reiterated she would 
not have taken out the Vitality policy had she known the exclusion would remain in place and 
shed have gone with the policy  from the broker. She explained  the impact the problems with 
the NHS  treatment had on her and that shed now need further surgery  in addition  to several 
sessions of laser treatment. Mrs M also confirmed she has renewed  the Vitality  cover this 
year because she felt she had to. 
I asked our investigator to contact  Vitality to establish whether the laser  treatment would be 
covered under the policy. Vitality confirmed photo dynamic laser therapy is a recognised 
treatment for Mrs Ms condition and as the claim was eligible they werent aware  of any 
reason why a request for this treatment wouldnt be accepted for cover.  They said the 
number of sessions  may need to be split across  the different areas affected on Mrs Ms 
body. In relation  to the other type laser  treatment Mrs M had mentioned Vitality said it was 
most likely theyd need to contact the specialist to obtain further information regarding the 
clinical requirement for treatment as it was usually required for cosmetic purposes.  As Mrs M 
hasnt yet made a claim for either treatment they said theyd not had the opportunity  to 
assess the treatment  options.  
Mrs M gave  further information  about  the treatment  shed discussed with her consultant and 
said shed ask for more  information when she sees her consultant.  She also provided a 
further update on her more recent  surgery as she is currently awaiting the result of a more 
recent biopsy. 
So I now need to make a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  
Vitality accepts their advisor  gave Mrs M the impression the exclusion would be removed at 
renewal and Mrs M hadnt been  directed  to ask for a review of the exclusion. Theyve  also 
confirmed that had the exclusion  been  reviewed at renewal it would have  been  lifted.  So 
Vitality has removed the exclusion and will cover Mrs M, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. 
Its accepted there was a delay in Vitality  accepting the claim.  Mrs M tried to claim in 
September but it wasnt accepted until December. So Mrs M has had to wait longer for 
treatment and has experienced  problems  in relation to the care she received on the NHS. 
Ref: DRN14796293Shes described this period of time as excruciatingly  stressful for her and I entirely accept 
her description is accurate. 
I can also see from her recent emails this experience has had both a physical  and emotional  
impact on her. I dont  doubt its been a very upsetting and distressing experience, particularly  
because her first biopsy results were  lost, and this has led to her having  a second invasive 
surgical procedure.  
However, I cant hold Vitality responsible for what went wrong with Mrs Ms treatment on the 
NHS. Our investigator recommended a total of £500 compensation and a bouquet of flowers  
in recognition of what went  wrong and Vitality accepted that recommendation. Having taken  
all of the circumstances into account I think this fairly reflects  the level of trouble and upset 
caused. I say that because:
I can understand how worried and upset Mrs M wouldve been during the period of 
time she had to wait for treatment, especially when shed  expected to be able to 
access private treatment straight away at a hospital  of her choice. I also bear in mind  
Mrs M had skin cancer before which no doubt added to her worry about the need for 
quick treatment. So I can appreciate why the failure to provide a private  service  had 
an impact on her. However,  as Ive outlined above its not my role to penalise  Vitality 
for what went wrong on the NHS  so I think the compensation offered is fair 
Mrs M has told us she wont be covered on the policy for laser  treatment so she feels  
a figure  of around £1500 is fair as that would enable her to cover  the cost of this 
treatment. Vitality  has since confirmed that Mrs M hasnt  made a claim yet. So I cant 
make a decision about something that hasnt happened yet. Vitality  has confirmed 
some of the laser  treatment will be covered and that theyll  consider any information 
Mrs M provides about the clinical requirement  for a different type of laser treatment. 
Thats what Id expect  them to do so I dont think they need to do anything  further in 
relation to this. If Mrs M is unhappy with the outcome of her claim for future treatment 
thats something our service would need to consider separately as a new complaint
Mrs M has renewed her policy. Vitality has confirmed the policy isnt an annual policy 
and if Mrs M wants to cancel it theyll waive the usual administration fee which  I think 
is reasonable. I appreciate Mrs M felt she had to stay with Vitality because  of her 
circumstances. Shes  rightly pointed out that the current diagnosis would have made 
it difficult to gain cover for her condition from another  provider as she would now be 
considered to have  an existing  medical condition. However,  thats something which 
would have been an issue at the point of renewal,  even  if Vitality  had handled  things 
better. Vitality also confirmed that Mrs Ms membership can be cancelled during the 
course of the policy year and they wont charge her an administrative fee. This 
means she can change her insurance  provider once her current treatment has come 
to an end, which I think is fair
Vitality has acknowledged Mrs Ms concerns in relation to using  a third party provider 
and agrees this couldve  been  explained  more clearly to her. However, they are 
entitled to do this under the policy terms. I also note only the relevant  information is 
passed to the third party  and not Mrs Ms full file. So Im not awarding any further 
compensation for this issue.
putting things right
Ref: DRN14796294Im upholding this complaint and directing Vitality put things right by:
Paying Mrs M a total of £500 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay  in accepting  the claim (any compensation already paid can be 
deducted from the total)
Waiving the administrative  fee should  Mrs M choose to move  provider before the end 
of the policy  year 
Sending Mrs M a bouquet of flowers. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and am directing Vitality Health Limited  to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 26 March  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1479629