K820x#14complaint
Miss Z complains that Vanquis Bank Limited is holding her liable for a debt incurred on a 
credit card that someone  fraudulently obtained using her details. 
background
In August  2017  Vanquis received an online application for a credit card, apparently  from 
Miss Z. It accepted the application and sent the card to Miss Zs address.  The card required 
Miss Z to call Vanquis  to activate it. 
Vanquis received  a telephone call to activate  the card on 30 August. The caller confirmed 
Miss Zs date of birth and the postcode, home telephone number and email address  used  on 
the application. Vanquis was satisfied that the caller was indeed  Miss Z and activated the 
card. It was then used  for a number of transactions over the following two weeks.
On 11 September  Miss Z called Vanquis to say she had become aware that someone has 
used her details to open an account  in her name.  She suspected  it was someone who 
shared her student  accommodation and who had applied for the card while she (Miss Z) was 
away. 
Vanquis investigated but reached the conclusion that Miss Z had applied  for and activated 
the card. It said that the voice on the activation  call was very similar to her own  which the 
bank knew from the call reporting the alleged  fraud.  
Miss Z didnt accept what Vanquis said and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
adjudicators considered her complaint but agreed  with Vanquis that Miss Z had activated  the 
card and had, therefore, been responsible for the application and the transactions made with 
the card. 
Miss Z didnt accept the adjudicators view and asked that an ombudsman review  the case   
as the final stage in our process.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did. 
Ive considered first of all the details submitted with the online application. Some of the 
information on it appears inaccurate  on any basis. It says that Miss Z has lived at the 
address for more  than four years and has a household income of over £56,000. Miss Z had 
actually lived at the address for around two years, and its unlikely that a students household 
income would  be that high.  I might have expected Vanquis to investigate  further  before 
issuing the card. 
I note too that Vanquis was unable to verify  the mobile phone  number on the application, 
and that the email address was not obviously linked to Miss Zs name. In addition, the caller 
appeared to be suffering from a bad cough,  so, to help her, the Vanquis  staff member simply 
asked her to confirm the email address and telephone number after he read them  out. And 
the telephone number  appears to have been  that of the shared house  where  Miss Z was 
living. Further, Vanquis cant provide the number of the caller who activated  the card, since  it 
was withheld.
Ref: DRN17126472Taking all of that into account,  I dont believe the information provided on the activation call 
necessarily showed  that Miss Z was responsible for the application. It was information that 
was on the application and, to the extent it was personal to Miss Z, readily available. 
Vanquis  and our adjudicator  concluded  however that the caller sounded very like Miss Z. 
On that basis they said that it was more likely than not that she made the activation call. 
Miss Z said that the person she suspected  of being  behind the application  was a very good  
mimic, so could have  impersonated her. 
Ive considered very carefully the evidence about  this, and listened to recordings of both the 
activation call and the call where Miss Z reported a fraudulent application. I agree that the 
voices in each call are very similar, although  its fair to say that the caller who activated  the 
card was suffering  from a bad cough.  I also note what Miss Z says about someone  
impersonating her. However, in my view that doesnt  really  help her case. Even  if someone  
who shared a house with her was able to mimic her voice, they would have had no reason to 
do so. Vanquis had until that point never  spoken to Miss Z and would have had no idea what  
she sounded like. The priority for someone who had made a card application  in Miss Zs 
name would have been to answer security  questions correctly, not to sound like Miss Z. 
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely than not that, even if Miss Z didnt use the card 
herself, she was aware that an application  had been  made in her name. In the 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require Vanquis to write  off the debt that has arisen.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank  Limited to do anything  further to resolve 
Miss Zs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss Z to accept  or reject  my decision before 7 September  2019.  
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1712647