K820x#14complaint
Ms Y says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm  where  or when the 
policy was taken out. It assumes it was in 1995 when the card started, although its records  
dont show PPI being charged  on the account until 2000. The policy gave Ms Y protection  
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms Y disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what  I think  is most likely  given  the 
available evidence and what  we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ys complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms Y said  that she wouldnt have taken  the PPI 
had she been  given the choice. There isnt much information  to go on in this case, 
because everything  happened so long ago. And I dont think  its surprising or 
unreasonable Lloyds doesnt  have Ms Ys application form any more. From what  we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards between  1995 and 2000, I think its 
likely Lloyds wouldve made  Ms Y aware  she had a choice  about PPI. The sample of 
the application form shes likely to have used shows she would have needed to tick a 
box to take out PPI. 
I have taken into account Ms Ys comments,  but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what she recalls. Overall,  without  stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Ms Y without giving her a 
choice, and her agreeing  to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Ms Y. This means Lloyds had to 
make sure it was right for her. I think it was suitable based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Ms Y was entitled to six months full pay and six months  
half pay if she was sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up 
to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 months  redundancy  cover. So, overall, I think 
the PPI wouldve been useful to Ms Y if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, based  on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it 
seems she wouldnt have been affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations. And, 
given what we know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these  years, the 
policy wouldve been competitively priced  and it was apparently affordable.  Ms Y was 
eligible for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys  terms and 
conditions. So I think it unlikely Ms Y wouldve made a different  decision if better  
Ref: DRN14020282information had been provided.  On balance I think she would still have taken out the 
policy.
It follows I dont think Ms Y has lost out because of any problems with this sale. Ms Y said 
she didnt claim for redundancy when she could have in 1999. It may be possible for her to 
make a retrospective claim  she should contact the insurer to find out more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1402028