K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1986. The policy covered Mrs B only. Mrs B and Ms V say Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading  as 
Halifax, mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs B and Ms V and Halifax a provisional  decision on 5 June 2019  to explain why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
There isnt very much information available about the sale. Mrs B and Ms V have said there  
was no information  given at the time to show the policy  was optional. But they havent given 
us much further detail  about what happened. And Halifax hasnt been able to send us any 
evidence from the sale showing  Mrs B and Ms V chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount 
of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Halifax  made Mrs B and Ms V think they had to 
have the PPI, or added  it without their knowledge.  So I think its likely Halifax made it clear to 
Mrs B and Ms V that they had a choice about  the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Mrs B and Ms V have said they felt pressured  into taking the PPI. But they havent given us 
much detail about what was said or why they felt this. This is understandable given how long 
ago the sale was. But I dont think theres enough evidence here for me to say that Halifax 
unfairly pressured them into taking the PPI.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B and Ms V, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs B was entitled  to. 
And it wouldve meant Mrs B and Ms V didnt need  to rely on any savings they had to make 
their repayments if Mrs B wasnt earning.
Mrs B and Ms V have said Mrs B had a medical condition when the policy  was sold.  But 
Mrs B would still have been able to claim on the policy for anything unrelated to her 
condition. And, based on what  theyve said, I dont  think the condition itself was likely to lead 
to a claim on the policy. Mrs B doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the other 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So I still think the PPI was right for Mrs B and Ms V.
Mrs B and Ms V sent us information from the money  advice service  about when people 
might not need  PPI. And I have  taken this into account. But, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I still think the PPI was right for them.
As well as checking it was right for them, Halifax had to give Mrs B and Ms V clear  
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment and Mrs B and Ms Vs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mrs B and Ms V if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mrs B and Ms V off taking it out.
Ref: DRN18349142Mrs B and Ms V have said that Mrs B tried to make  a claim on the policy when she was 
made redundant, but the policy  didnt pay out any money. The terms of the policy  show there  
was a 90 day waiting  period at the start of a claim. And, from what Mrs B and Ms V have 
said, it appears Mrs B found a new job during  these  90 days.  So Mrs Bs period of 
unemployment wouldnt have been covered by the policy.  And PPI policies were designed to 
cover long-term unemployment and a waiting period like this wasnt uncommon. So I dont 
think the waiting  period  meant the policy wasnt right for Mrs B and Ms V or that Halifax  
shouldve specifically highlighted  the waiting period to them at the sale.
Mrs B and Ms V have also said they would  have been better off putting  the money they paid 
for the PPI into a savings account.  But insurance, by definition,  is to cover  things  that may 
not happen. Ive explained  above that I think the PPI couldve been  useful  for Mrs B and 
Ms V. And I dont think it would be fair for me to require Halifax to refund the premiums they 
paid just because  they ended up not needing the insurance.
Mrs B and Ms V have mentioned Halifax refusing  to pay out because  there  had been  too 
many claims that year. Theyve  sent us a copy of a letter from 1992, but this says the cost of 
the policy is increasing and the length  of time the policy would pay out for is being changed 
due to an increase  in the number of claims received.  But it doesnt say no more claims can 
be made and Ive seen  no evidence that Halifax refused to pay out on a claim as a result of 
the number of claims already made  in that year.
Mrs B and Ms V also mentioned that the PPI only covered Mrs B, rather than covering both 
of them.  But this wouldnt have  stopped Mrs B claiming on the policy.  And the policy would 
either have  cost the same or been  more expensive if Ms V had also been covered. So I cant 
see that Mrs B and Ms V have lost out as a result of Ms V not also being covered by the 
PPI.
I said Id consider any further information  Mrs B and Ms V or Halifax sent me.
Halifax didnt send  in anything further. Mrs B and Ms V sent in further  evidence  and 
arguments, which I will address below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments, including everything Mrs B 
and Ms V sent in response to my provisional  decision, to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs B and Ms Vs case.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs B and Ms V said that Ms V wasnt  named on the 
PPI policy, and so wouldnt have been  able to claim on it. But I said in my provisional  
decision that the policy only covered Mrs B, and explained why I didnt feel Mrs B and Ms V 
had lost out as a result of this.
Mrs B and Ms V also again raised information  from the money advice service, as well as 
from this services website and the FCA. But this is general advice on when PPI may not 
have been appropriate for customers. And, having assessed Mrs B and Ms Vs specific 
Ref: DRN18349143circumstances, I still think the PPI was right for them, for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision.
I understand that Mrs B and Ms V feel that more information or records from the sale may be 
available, either  from Halifax or from the underwriter of the policy. And that, if Halifax can 
provide some letters about the policy, it should be able to provide all records  about  it. But I 
dont think its unusual  or suspicious that Halifax has some records  but not full records  of the 
policy, given how long ago some of the records are from. Ive not seen any clear  evidence 
that Halifax has withheld evidence from this service. And Im satisfied theres enough 
evidence available  for me to come to a decision on this complaint.
Mrs B and Ms V also raised that Halifax increasing  the cost of the policy  and reducing the 
amount of time it would pay out for, was unfair. But the terms of the policy gave Halifax the 
right to change the monthly cost. And the letter from 1992 shows  Halifax  made the changes 
clear to Mrs B. So I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably, and Mrs B could have  chosen  to 
cancel the cover at that time then if she no longer felt it was useful to her.
Mrs B and Ms V were also unhappy  that Halifax didnt tell them  that they could have bought  
PPI from a different  provider and that the policy didnt cover  the whole  term of the mortgage. 
But Halifax  didnt have  to tell them that they could buy PPI from a different provider. And 
while the pay-out  for any individual claim was for up to twelve  months, a claim could be 
made at any time during  the term of the mortgage. So the policy did cover  the whole term of 
the mortgage.
Mrs B and Ms V also raised a number  of other points, both before and in response  to my 
provisional decision. I havent specifically  replied to all of the points they made,  but I assure 
Mrs B and Ms V that all of the points they made have been considered when coming  to my 
decision.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I still feel the conclusions I set 
out in my provisional  decision are correct. And so, for the reasons given both here and in my 
provisional decision, I dont think Halifax mis-sold the PPI to Mrs B and Ms V.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs B and Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1834914