K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Sainsburys Bank  Plc didnt give him the reward  points he believed he was 
entitled to from spending  on his credit  card account.
background
In January 2010, Mr S took out a credit  card with Sainsburys  which has a partnership with a 
particular loyalty card scheme where reward points can be earned relating to spending on 
the credit  card.   At this point, Mr S says he also got a new loyalty  card. Mr S says he realised  
last year that he hadnt been receiving reward points since he took out the credit card. Mr S 
asked Sainsburys to calculate and award the reward  points owed to him from 2010.
Sainsburys told Mr S that the reason he didnt receive any reward  points was because  his 
loyalty card wasnt linked to his credit card account. Sainsburys also told Mr S they were 
only able to see the amount of points earned  since June 2018 and couldnt go as far back  as 
2010. So Sainsburys arranged  for the corresponding amount of points,  which they 
calculated to be 6,728, to be paid to Mr S reward card. As a gesture of goodwill, Sainsburys 
also credited Mr S reward card with an additional 5,000 points, taking his points balance  to 
over 11,700. Sainsburys say this amount  was credited to Mr S Nectar  card in April 2019.  
But Mr S wasnt  happy  as he didnt think Sainsburys had given him all of the reward points 
owed to him. 
Since the case has come to our service, Sainsburys explained that theyd originally told 
Mr S the wrong information - that they were  only able to see the amount of points  earned  
since June 2018.  Sainsburys  said that the points they calculated,  6,728, were actually from 
the time he took out his credit card in 2010.
Our investigator looked into this complaint. She thought Sainsburys had calculated the 
points correctly and so had done  enough  in awarding Mr S with the right amount of reward  
points. Mr S disagreed. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont know it was Sainsburys fault that Mr S credit card and loyalty  card werent linked. 
However, the bank  has already made an offer and Ill explain why I think its fair in this case.
Mr S hasnt told us how many reward points he thinks he shouldve  got. Hes only said he 
wants Sainsburys to give him the reward points that shouldve accrued from when he 
opened the account in 2010. Given Sainsburys originally told him theyd  only awarded 
points since 2018,  it isnt surprising to me that he wants the points he believes hes not been 
given.
With that in mind, Sainsburys have sent me a copy of some of Mr S credit card statements 
from September 2011 to March 2019.  Sainsburys  have  told us that theyve been unable  to 
get copies of Mr S statements before September 2011, as their records dont go back  any 
further than that. Sainsburys  have also told us that for every £5 spent, Mr S would have 
been entitled to 1 reward point. But for every  £1 spent in a Sainsburys supermarket, he 
would have been entitled to 2 reward points. 
Ref: DRN13141052Ive looked at Mr S spending on the statements Sainsburys have been able to provide. And 
Ive done some calculations bearing  in mind the number of points awarded for the amount 
spent and location of Mr S spending. Based on my calculations, I think Mr S shouldve  
received around  6,000 reward points for the period September  2011  to March 2019.  
Sainsburys have also sent us a screenshot of their internal records of Mr S account. I can 
see in the column  under  Life to Date the number of points earned is 6,728. And at the top of 
the screenshot, it shows the enrolment  date as January 2010. So this appears to be the total 
number of points  Mr S shouldve accrued since opening the credit  card account in January 
2010.
As Ive already  said, I dont have copies of Mr S credit card statements from January 2010 
to August  2011  so I dont know exactly how he used his card in that period of time. But he 
hasnt suggested  he spent considerably more in that time.  So I think  its more  likely than not 
his spending habits may have been  similar  to whats shown on the statements I have seen.  
And I think its likely  that 6,728  is what Mr S did earn from when he opened the account until 
March 2019. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied Sainsburys offer of over 11,700 reward  points is more  than 
fair. So I wont be ordering Sainsburys to credit Mr S account  with more points.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314105