K821x#15complaint
Miss T has complained about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA)  settlement of the medical
claim she made on her travel insurance  policy.
background
Miss T purchased an annual travel insurance  policy online on 13 August 2017.  She was
asked four eligibility questions. One of these asked whether she had been prescribed
medication for a medical condition in the last five years.
Miss T answered  no and proceeded to purchase  the standard  policy. This excluded cover
for pre-existing conditions.
In February 2018  Miss T was on holiday abroad when she needed  medical attention. There
werent facilities to treat her where she was so she was flown to the nearest hospital where
she could be treated. IPA accepted her claim but pointed out that Miss Ts medical records
show her having  had insomnia from April 2012  until March 2015. They also indicate that a
repeat prescription  for sleeping tablets and a nasal spray was issued on 9 August 2017.
IPA said that if Miss T had answered  the medical question correctly  she would have been
offered a different policy on different terms. It said that would have meant  she would have
paid a premium of £94.31 instead of £27.45.  Therefore it was only offering to pay 29% of
Miss Ts claim.
Unhappy with this, Miss T brought  her complaint here. Our investigator agreed that Miss T
hadnt answered the question correctly. However  as the claim didnt relate  to a pre-existing
condition she felt it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to settle  the claim in full.
IPA didnt agree. It made the point that when entering into a contract with a consumer it
relies on good  faith and the customer providing truthful answers during the sales process.
Had Miss T answered the questions correctly IPA confirmed that she would not have been
sold this policy. It said that this standard level of cover is designed  for customers  that have
not sought medical attention within the last five years. It felt that Miss T had recklessly
answered the medical question and that it would have  been  within  its rights  to retract cover
completely. Nevertheless  it said it had taken a fair and reasonable approach and made a
retrospective screening under an alternative  style of cover that it offers. It didnt agree  with
the suggestion that it should meet the claim in full.
As no agreement has been reached the case was passed to me to review. I issued my 
provisional findings on 19 December 2019.  I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence,  arguments, law and industry guidance to decide
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Representations and Disclosure)  Act 2012 CIDRA before
entering into a contract of insurance the consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation to the insurer.
Whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is to
be determined in the light of the all relevant circumstances. CIDRA gives examples  of things
which may need to be taken into account  in making  a determination about whether a
Ref: DRN12236482consumer took reasonable  care. If the consumer fails to take reasonable care in accordance
with the provisions of CIDRA and makes a misrepresentation, this will be a qualifying
misrepresentation if the insurer can show that, without the misrepresentation, it would not
have entered  into the contract  or it would only have done so on different terms. If a
qualifying misrepresentation has been made,  CIDRA sets out the remedies available  to the
insurer.
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation can be either deliberate or reckless,  or
careless. If a qualifying misrepresentation is not deliberate or reckless, it is classified as
careless.
The question about medical conditions
IPA asked a question about  medical conditions suffered  in the five years before taking out
the policy. It asked:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered any medical
conditions, (medical or psychological disease, sickness,  condition, illness or injury) that has
required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery, tests  or investigations?
Miss T had been given  a repeat prescription for sleeping tablets for insomnia four days
before she took the policy out. However she didnt answer affirmatively to the question IPA
asked. Likewise she didnt  mention  the prescribed nasal spray.
IPA says that this was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. Although it felt it was a
reckless misrepresentation, it has treated it as careless. The categorisation of reckless or
careless is important because, as far as is relevant here, it entitles the insurer  to reach a
different outcome in the event of a claim. It is for the insurer  to show that a qualifying
misrepresentation was reckless.
I understand that Miss T felt her ailments  were minor and therefore she didnt need to
answer yes to the question asked. I have some sympathy with this, and I dont  agree  that
IPA has shown that Miss T recklessly answered  the question. It accepted that the nasal 
spray could be purchased  over the counter so it retrospectively screened Miss T as if she
had declared the prescribed medication for insomnia  only. It follows  that IPA assessed
Miss Ts claim as if the misrepresentation  was careless.
But whether  or not a consumer has taken  reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
is to be decided in the light of all the circumstances. CIDRA gives examples of things which
may need to be taken  into account when determining whether or not a consumer has taken
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and how specific the insurers  questions were.
Looking at the eligibility question in isolation,  I agree  that it was clear  enough.
However to look at the question in isolation would be contrary to the intention of the
legislation. So Ive considered the sales process Miss T went through in order  to buy the
policy she did. I think this is a relevant consideration. I say this because one example CIDRA
gives of things which may be taken into account  when  making  a determination  about
reasonable care is any relevant explanatory material or publicity produced or authorised by
the insurer  and the list of examples isnt exhaustive. Here, I think  that the lack of relevant
explanatory material  is key.
Miss T went straight  to the insurers website. It is branded as something  else but for the
purposes of this provisional decision  I shall just refer to IPA as IPA accepts responsibility for
Ref: DRN12236483the sale. I appreciate  that the sales journey is designed to be quick and simple to follow. But
I find that in the simplicity lay a flaw. During the online sales  process, and when the eligibility
questions were asked,  Miss T was given no adequate warning that if anything wasnt
disclosed this would  impact on the entire cover purchased. The website also didnt explain
that the standard policy was not available to anyone who had sought medical attention in the
last five years.
Now I can accept that the insurer might say that it wanted to know  about all prescribed
medications - the question was clear, consumers are told that questions  need to be
answered accurately  to ensure that the policy  offers  protection, and so no warning was
necessary.
In many cases I would  agree that might  be so. If someone is taking medication for a serious
medical condition  it seems reasonable to me that they would answer yes to the above
question. But there are some circumstances where I think  a consumer may be prejudiced  by
a lack of a warning  or explanation. An example  would be where  a consumer reasonably  felt
that their condition was infrequent or minor  or even not a condition at all. This is particularly
so where, as here, a certain policy wouldnt  be available to them at all. And I think  that
inserting one represents good industry practice.
Under CIDRA it is to be presumed, unless the contrary is shown, that the consumer  knew a
matter about which  the insurer asked a clear and specific question  was relevant. However
Im persuaded that Miss T didnt think that the odd prescription for sleeping tablets was
relevant. She says that she knew she had to declare  existing medical  conditions  but
considered that to mean anything that may prevent  her from travelling  not a prescription  for
sleeping tablets. But Im concerned about  two things. Firstly  that she wasnt given a
comprehensive warning  as to the consequences  of not answering yes at this stage.
Importantly, I cant  say how Miss T would have  answered had there  been  a warning or
explanation at this stage  that an incorrect answer  would mean any claim would be affected.
Secondly she was unaware  that the standard policy she was purchasing  wasnt available to
anyone who answered  yes to any of the eligibility questions  they would be directed to buy
a more expensive  policy.
So Im minded to say that it wasnt unreasonable of Miss T to answer the way she did. But
even if I was to conclude that Miss Ts answer was careless, I would be minded to uphold
her complaint and require  the insurer to settle  her claim in full. Im satisfied that this would be
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Ill explain why below.
The policy Miss T purchased
IPA has said that if the questions  had been  answered affirmatively Miss T would have had to
buy a different, more  expensive, policy. Ive explained above  what I find to be a flaw in that
process. When Miss T answered no to the medical  conditions  question she was sent to the
next screen which enabled her to make a secure payment. She had the opportunity to
review policy documents and IPIDs (insurance product information  documents) at that
stage, although  she wasnt  prompted to do so or asked to confirm that she had.
But in any event the policy Miss T did purchase offered no cover for pre-existing conditions.
The Insurance Product Information Document said under the heading  Are there  any
restrictions on cover? This policy does not provide cover for claims arising  directly  or
indirectly from any pre-existing  medical conditions. It doesnt  explain that the cover could be
Ref: DRN12236484affected if the consumer  has a pre-existing  medical  condition, even if the claim has no
connection to the pre-existing condition. So even if Miss T had read the documentation
carefully she wouldnt have been  alerted to the consequences of not disclosing the
prescription for insomnia medication.
The policy document states  this insurance  is designed to cover you for unforeseen
accidents and illnesses during the period of insurance. The policy does also say that the
insurer may reduce  the amount of any claim payment if the policyholder doesnt comply with
any of the important  conditions relating  to health.  It then sets out what  those are. A reading
of this section would alert a policyholder  to some of the consequences of an incorrect
answer. But, in my view,  this comes too late in the sales process.
Miss T purchased a policy that offered no cover for pre-existing conditions. She didnt claim
for a pre-existing condition, and nor was she given an early and prominent warning that any
other claim  she might make  even if it was completely unrelated  to a pre-existing condition
 wouldnt be paid in full.
It hasnt been  suggested that Miss Ts undisclosed medication/condition is related to the
condition she suffered from on holiday and for which she required urgent treatment. Had she
needed treatment  for a condition related to her insomnia then I accept that IPA would have
been prejudiced by the answer  that Miss T gave to the eligibility question.  But here the
prescription that Miss T didnt mention was for a condition unrelated  to her claim and for
which no cover  was offered. In these circumstances, and given my concerns about the sales
process, I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to settle Miss Ts claim by way of a
proportionate settlement  only.
My provisional decision was that IPA met Miss Ts claim in full. 
response to my provisional  decision
Both parties  agreed with my provisional findings.  This being  so I see no reason to depart 
from them and I adopt them  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I require Inter Partner  Assistance SA settle  Miss Ts claim for 
the medical treatment  and associated transfer  she received in full.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1223648