K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Skoda Financial Services  Skoda 
FS) was faulty from the start.
Background
Mr S entered into a HPA with Skoda FS to acquire a new vehicle in March 2016. He says 
that after two months  the car was making  an unusual noise and the gears were  dropping.  He 
contacted the dealer and the car went on a test run on which  he says the technician couldnt  
hear the noises  but noted the gears  dropping. The car was booked  in but he was then told 
no faults had been found. Mr S says the noise got worse  and the car was booked in on 
further occasions (each time he had to pay a fee for a courtesy car) but no issues were  
reported. Mr S says that after a further vehicle  check a technician noted the noise and the 
gears dropping and the car was booked in for repair. The clutch was replaced  and a 
software update  took place.
Mr S collected the car and says the dealer apologised for not believing him sooner and he 
was told the issue  had been  resolved. However two days later he says the noise came back 
and the issue  with the gears remained. He says he returned to the dealer to ask for a 
replacement or exchange  as he had lost faith in the car but this wasnt  agreed. 
Mr S contacted Skoda FS and was told to have an inspection carried out. But this didnt 
confirm the issue.  Mr S says he shouldnt  have had to pay for a car that was new but faulty 
from the start. 
Skoda FS says that Mr S took the car to the dealer  in May 2017  and a replacement clutch 
was provided under  warranty as well as a software update. In August 2017, he returned to 
the dealer due to issue with the gearbox but there  were no records  of any repairs  at this 
time. In January 2018,  a service was carried out and no faults  found.  It says it then received 
contact from Mr S in December 2018 about  the quality of the car. 
Skoda FS says that there  was no evidence to suggest that the fault with Mr S clutch  that 
was repaired in May 2017, was present at the point  of supply. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said further evidence was needed  to show 
that there  were faults that were present from the point of supply or that had continued 
following the May 2017 repairs.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that the issues started two months 
after acquisition and continued even after repairs. He said he hadnt been  treated fairly and 
his concerns werent taken seriously. 
Skoda FS said that Mr S has handed  back the car at the end of the agreement in 
December 2019.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN17593872Mr S acquired a car though a HPA with Skoda FS. Under the regulations,  specifically 
considering the Consumer  Rights Act 2015, Skoda  FS can be held liable if the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new at acquisition  it is reasonable 
that Mr S would expect  it to be free from faults  including any minor  defects.
I understand why Mr S is upset as he has explained he experienced issues with gears  from 
shortly after acquisition. However, for me to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied that 
the car was faulty at the point of supply and that this issue  wasnt remedied in a reasonable 
way.
Mr S has explained that he took the car back to the dealer on a number  of occasions but no 
fault was identified until May 2017.  This was over a year after acquisition and Mr S had been 
able to drive almost 9,000 miles.  The repair took place under warranty  and so at no cost to 
Mr S. So, while I can understand  why Mr S is upset and feels  he wasnt  taken seriously,  as 
the repair was undertaken  as soon as the fault was identified  I find this was a reasonable 
remedy to the issue.  
Mr S says that following the repair the issue re-occurred. I have looked  through the evidence 
provided and this shows the car being inspected in August 2017, when it had been driven 
over 11,000 miles. The issue of the gearbox  was raised but no repairs recorded  and Mr S 
has said that the fault wasnt identified.  Following this, in January 2018, a service  was 
carried out and no concerns are noted.  I can also see that the MOT took place in 
March 2019, by which point the car had been  driven over 25,000  miles. The car passed the 
MOT with no advisories. Therefore, while I note Mr S comments  about  the issue not being 
resolved by the repairs, without further  evidence I do not find that I have enough to say that 
there is an ongoing fault with the car that was present at the point of supply.  Without this 
evidence I do not find I can say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
I understand that Mr S has now returned the car and that he has raised a further issue 
reading charges.  However, as our investigator has explained, this will need  to be dealt  with 
as a speared complaint if required.
My decision  is in respect to Mr S complaint about  the car not being of satisfactory  quality 
and while  I know Mr S will find my decision disappointing, I do not find I can say there is 
enough evidence  to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1759387