K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs B took out a loan in 2002 and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the loan agreement which  Mrs B signed.  Theres  a section on 
this which  has the words Optional Loan Protection, with Yes  and No boxes next to this. 
And theres  a pre-printed cross in the Yes box. Theres other  information  on the form, 
including Mrs Bs personal details, which is also printed  on the agreement.  I think the 
agreement was most likely to have been  produced after the loan and PPI had been 
discussed with Mrs B and reflected the conversation  and the choices she had made.  On 
balance, I dont think its likely that the cross would have been  included for PPI without this 
first being  agreed  with her.
The first page of the loan agreement also shows the cost of the PPI separately to Mrs Bs 
main borrowing.  And I think Mrs B would have  queried why this cover - described  as optional 
on the agreement  - had been added if she hadnt chosen to take it. 
So on the basis of what Ive seen, I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mrs B aware the 
PPI was optional  and that she actively chose  to take it. But this all happened a long time 
ago, so I can understand why she may not remember this now.
.
I think Lloyds recommended to Mrs B that she take out the policy.  So it needed  to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for her. Theres no record of the meeting, so I dont know how it 
did this. But from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it 
wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. 
Ref: DRN18544432The loan agreement  Mrs B signed set out what she would need to borrow to pay for the 
PPI and the monthly cost of repayment.  The interest on the PPI premium wasnt  made 
as clear as it could have been. But I dont think this interest was so large that it would 
have put Mrs B off taking  the policy. And Ive no reason to think  the policys cost was 
unaffordable for her.
 
Mrs B says she would  have received full sick pay and could also have relied  on her 
parents to meet her loan repayments  if she couldnt. But the PPI policy  would pay out in 
addition to these  if she wasnt able to work because of an accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. And it would have been  more secure than partly  having to rely on 
parents for financial support in need. So I still think that she would have thought the 
policy gave her useful  cover at an affordable cost.
If the loan had been repaid early  Mrs B wouldnt have been given a proportionate  refund 
of the single premium.  And that made the policy relatively inflexible.  But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she would  have expected to repay the loan early  at the time of 
the sale. So I dont  think this made  the policy unsuitable for her then.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. And for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy  was unsuitable  for her, I 
dont think better information  would have  changed her mind  about buying it. 
So I dont  think that Mrs B has lost out by anything that Lloyds  may have done wrong when  it 
sold this PPI policy to her.
my final decision
It follows from the above that Im not upholding  Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854443