K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros  (Ocaso) and their 
decision to finalise her home insurance  claim with a cash settlement.
background
Mrs M contacted Ocaso to make a subsidence  claim on her home insurance policy,  after 
noticing some damage to her home. A loss adjustor (LA) was appointed in 2014, a 
schedule of work was completed, and the initial repairs  were  undertaken.
Mrs M was unhappy with the quality of these repairs, and several snagging issues  were  
identified. As Mrs M complained about the contractors  who completed the initial repairs, 
Ocaso took steps to find an alternative contractor  to complete the work. A number of issues 
and delays were  encountered when doing  so, so Mrs M raised a complaint with this service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns about the snagging  work  that needed 
completing and felt Ocaso had acted fairly by offering to repair several  of the issues.  So, she 
didnt think Ocaso  needed to do anything  more. Mrs M agreed with this view and agreed to 
let Ocaso arrange a new contractor to complete the work. 
But Mrs M was unhappy  with the length  of time it took a new contractor to contact her. And 
when the new contractor, who Ill refer to as N, did contact her, they said they were  unable 
to arrange a date for them to inspect Mrs Ms property. Mrs M spoke to Ocaso to raise her 
concerns and Ocaso made Mrs M aware  that N had declined  to complete the repair  work 
now. Because of this, Ocaso felt they were unable to source  another  contractor to complete 
the work.  So, they instead offered Mrs M a cash settlement of £5,000 so she could arrange 
the snagging repairs herself.
Mrs M was unhappy with this as she wanted  Ocaso to arrange and complete the repairs. But 
Ocaso felt their offer was fair, and in line with the terms  and conditions  of Mrs Ms policy. 
They felt theyd exhausted all reasonable opportunities of repair and that a cash settlement 
was a reasonable way to conclude the claim.  Mrs M was unhappy  with this, so she referred 
her complaint back to us.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concern about the cash  settlement and didnt think  
Ocaso had done anything  wrong. She thought  Ocaso acted reasonably by offering a cash 
settlement due to the issues that had been  encountered when trying to arrange  suitable 
repairs. And she felt theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions  by doing so. So, she 
didnt think they needed to do anything  more.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She felt Ocaso had an obligation to arrange the repairs. And she didnt 
think Ocaso or N had taken into consideration her medical conditions which had made  it 
difficult for her to agree a time and date to inspect her property and undertake the work.  As 
Mrs M didnt  agree, the complaint  has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. Ive focused  my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented  on any specific  point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN10195252Firstly, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs M. I can see this 
complaint has arisen from an issue that has been ongoing for some time. And I can 
understand how this wouldve been frustrating and impacted on Mrs Ms current health  
conditions. But for me to say Ocaso have  done something wrong, Id need to see their 
decision to offer Mrs M a cash  settlement was unfair. Or that by doing  so, they failed to act 
within the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M held.  And in this situation, I dont think  
thats the case.
My decision  is focused solely on Ocasos decision to conclude Mrs Ms claim by offering her 
a cash settlement. This is because Mrs M and Ocaso agreed to our investigators  previous 
outcome regarding the repairs that needed  to be completed. So, that issue  isnt in dispute.
Ive first considered whether Ocaso  have acted in line with the terms and conditions  by 
offering a cash settlement. The policy states under the Basis of Claims Settlement heading 
that In the event of loss or damage  to the building(s), the insurer  will pay the FULL COST 
OF REPAIR. So, the wording doesnt  specify that Ocaso had to arrange the repairs, only 
that Mrs M was paid the full cost. And Ive seen that the cash  settlement Ocaso have offered 
includes the cost of all the repair work Mrs M agreed, plus an additional amount for 
additional painting  work that she may wish to have  completed.  So, I think the cash  
settlement Ocaso  have  offered falls in line with the terms of the policy and that Ocaso were 
able to settle the claim in this way.
But Ive also considered whether it was fair for Ocaso to settle the claim with a cash 
settlement even though they were  entitled to do so. 
In subsidence  claims,  its often preferred  that an insurer arranges for the repairs  to be 
completed, due to the nature of the work  that may need to be   carried  out. But Ive 
considered the fact the repairs still to be completed are for snagging  work  rather  than 
rectification of the initial faults caused  by the subsidence itself. 
Mrs M isnt happy to arrange  the repairs herself,  and Im aware she currently suffers  from 
health conditions  that may make this more  difficult.  And I can understand her frustration as I 
think Ocaso entered into a contract  of repair by carrying out the work at Mrs Ms property  in 
the first place. And therefore,  it was right for it to agree to source another contractor in the 
first place. But, Ocaso has said it hasnt been possible to arrange the repairs, despite it 
trying to do so. And because of that, it has no reasonable alternative but to offer to cash  
settlement, so Mrs M can get the work done  at a time right for her. Ive seen that throughout 
Ocasos involvement, there have been  several  instances where  Mrs M and the appointed 
contractor at the time were unable to agree mutually agreeable dates for the works to be 
completed, despite Ocaso providing  a range of dates to undertake  work.  And Ive seen  that 
where these issues have caused  Mrs M concern,  Ocaso have  listened  to these and tried to 
find reasonable solutions, but this wasnt successful. This has led to a number of contractors 
being contacted to enquire whether theyd agree to complete the work. 
On several occasions,  these contractors, including N, have  declined  to complete the work. 
And this was mainly  due to the difficulties  they faced when communicating  with Mrs M to 
agree dates for inspections and works to go ahead. Mrs B didnt agree to any of the repair  
dates recommended, and that meant  it wasnt possible  for the contractors to actually  do the 
work it had agreed  to in the first place. While I appreciate Mrs Ms health conditions mean 
she needs prior warning  to ensure she is available, I dont think  it would  be fair for me to say 
these difficulties were the fault of Ocaso.  
Ref: DRN10195253From the evidence provided to me, I think Ocaso have explored a number of alternative 
solutions to ensure the repairs went ahead, including  offering dates that gave Mrs B prior 
warning. And unfortunately,  these solutions werent  successful. 
The same issues have  been present for several  years and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs 
Ms situation  has changed  in a way that would allow Ocaso, or their contractors, to agree a 
time to complete  the work. And I dont think it would be fair to expect  Ocaso to continue to 
face the same difficulties  for an unspecified amount  of time.
Because of this, I think Ocasos decision to offer a cash settlement is a fair one, as it 
prevents any further delays to Mrs M receiving the full cost of the repair she is entitled  to. It 
allows Mrs M to take control of the repairs and the contractor she uses, so she is able to 
agree a time that is convenient for her. And the settlement  Ocaso have offered covers the 
full cost of the repairs that need  to be completed. So, I dont think  Mrs M suffers financially 
from this. For these  reasons, I cant say Ocaso have acted unfairly  and I dont think  they 
need to do anything more.
That being  said,  Im aware Mrs M feels there may be further repairs  identified  when the initial 
repair work to her outside of her property is completed.  If further  work  was identified, and a 
further cost incurred, Id expect Ocaso to consider this against the terms of policy.  
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. But I hope  this decision explains 
clearly why Ocaso have  chosen to offer a cash settlement  and why I think this was a fair 
decision to make given  the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about  Ocaso  SA, 
Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019525