K821x#15complaint
Miss G complained about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her alongside  a mortgage by Total Mortgage Network Limited (TMN).
background
Miss G complained the PPI she took out alongside  her mortgage in September 2005 was 
mis-sold. TMN agreed to partly uphold her complaint that the unemployment cover was mis-
sold and offered to pay compensation  that refunded this part of the premium and associated 
costs. 
Miss G wasnt happy with this partial offer and brought her complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020,  a copy of which is attached to and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the background to this complaint, all the 
issues that needed to be considered and the reasons why I thought  the policy  had been  fully 
mis-sold. I also set out how I thought TMN should calculate the compensation.
Both parties  have come back in response  to that provisional decision and agreed with my 
findings and outcome. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision the reasons why I considered  the PPI policy sold to 
Miss G had been fully mis-sold. I considered there  were several failings in the information 
provided to Miss G about the policy and also the suitability of the policy for Miss Gs 
circumstances. Therefore I found that Miss G would most likely not have purchased  the 
single premium PPI policy  at the time and it had been mis-sold.  
I then looked at what compensation TMN needed  to pay to Miss G to put her as far as 
possible in the position she wouldve been  in if she had never taken out the PPI. At one-point  
TMN had considered  paying  compensation for a full mis-sale  and calculated  an offer but I 
said I didnt think how this had been worked  out was fair.
In my provisional decision I provided  some detailed information about the way I thought TMN  
should work out the compensation. 
As requested TMN has now provided  some new calculations. These show that it is offering a 
total before  tax of £3,694.83. This is made up of the premium  which  was £1,608; interest on 
that premium which had been added  to the mortgage of £418.83; and compensatory interest 
paid to February 2020 of £1,668.00.
TMN is obliged to deduct tax at basic rate from the compensatory interest  by HM Revenue  
and Customs. Miss G can request that TMN provide  a certificate  in relation to this if it is 
needed.
Ref: DRN11057052In summary  my final decision is that I find that the PPI sold to Miss G with her mortgage  by 
TMN was mis-sold.  I think that the offer now calculated  by TMN of £3,694.83 before tax is 
fair to refund the costs  of the mis-sold PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached, I think the PPI that Total Mortgage Network Limited sold to Miss G alongside her 
mortgage was mis-sold.  
This means  that Total  Mortgage Network Limited  should pay to Miss G the compensation it 
has now calculated as due, of £3,694.83 less any tax, to settle Miss Gs complaint fairly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11057053Copy of Provisional Decision
Miss Gs complaint  is about the mis-sale of a payment  protection insurance  (PPI)  policy sold to her by 
Total Mortgage Network  Limited (TMN) at the same time as she took out a mortgage.  
background 
Miss G took out a mortgage in September 2005  and at the same time was sold a PPI policy paid for 
by a single premium, the cost of which  was added  to her mortgage. 
TMN eventually  agreed to partly uphold the complaint and offered compensation  to pay back  the 
costs of the PPI that is said covered the cost of the unemployment part of the policy.  This was 
because Miss G was self-employed and TMN accepted that this would restrict her ability  to claim for 
the unemployment  cover. 
Our adjudicator said TMN  should pay the full compensation  and initially TMN said it would offer the 
full compensation which it worked  out at £3,408.96.  However it then went back to its original offer and 
said it would only partly  uphold the complaint that the unemployment cover was mis-sold but not the 
accident and sickness cover. 
Our adjudicator said TMN  should make a full offer of compensation. TMN didnt agree and asked  for 
an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I am going to consider this complaint in two parts. Firstly, the issue of the PPI mis-sale  and the 
reasons why I think the policy was mis-sold in total. I am then going  to look at how TMN should work  
out any compensation due to Miss G.
why was the PPI mis-sold
Miss G took out a mortgage recommended by TMN in September 2005 and at the same time bought 
a PPI policy. The PPI policy was recommended  by TMN and was to pay Miss G if she were unable to 
work as a result of accident, sickness and unemployment. The cost of the policy was a single  
premium of £1,608 and this policy was to provide cover for five years.  The mortgage Miss G took out 
was for a term of 19 years so the policy  did not cover  the full period the mortgage was to run.
The premium for the PPI was added to the amount Miss G borrowed for her mortgage and interest 
was therefore charged on this. The mortgage  was taken out on an interest only basis so Miss G did 
not repay any of the capital,  including the PPI premium, with her monthly payments. She only paid the 
interest charged on the total borrowings but some of this interest was for what  she had borrowed for 
the PPI.
Miss G was self-employed and our adjudicator said this made it more difficult  for her to claim  on the 
policy and so it had been mis-sold. TMN  agreed that the self-employed terms would have  affected 
unemployment claims, so it originally offered to refund part of the PPI costs. But TMN says as Miss G 
could still have benefitted  from the accident  and sickness  part of the policy  it was only offering to 
refund the costs that may have been caused  by the unemployment part of the PPI.
After some further comment from our adjudicator  TMN indicated in July 2019 it would offer full 
settlement for the mis-sale and offered  £3,408.96 in compensation.  However it later changed  that 
Ref: DRN11057054approach and in November 2019 indicated  again  that it would only refund the part of the PPI cost that 
related to unemployment, which it says was £1,136.32.   
Ive looked in detail at the evidence available  from the time of sale. Clearly Miss G was self-employed 
and so could not have the full benefit of the policy which  is a ground for upholding  the PPI was mis-
sold. But I think there are also other matters surrounding  the sale that made the policy mis-sold  and I 
am intending to fully uphold the complaint that the policy was mis-sold  in total. I shall explain why.
Considering the sale overall, I need  to consider  whether TMN gave  Miss G information  that was clear, 
fair and not misleading  in order to put her in a position where she could make  an informed choice 
about the insurance she was buying. Also in giving a recommendation, TMN had to take adequate 
steps to ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for Miss Gs needs.
I am not persuaded that Miss G was given clear  information  about  the cost of the PPI before she 
made her decision to purchase  the policy. I say this because the Mortgage Payment  Protection 
Insurance Information Sheet  that has been provided to me, only discloses the cost of the premium. 
Whilst I note this document states that interest will be paid on the single premium  figure  for the term of 
the mortgage, I do not consider that this makes it clear how much in interest Miss G would be paying  
for the policy and how much  the policy  would  cost in total.  
TMN were also recommending an interest only mortgage so Miss G was only paying  the interest 
every month  on the amount  she borrowed. I have seen  nothing to show that it was explained to Miss 
G how much of that monthly interest  payment  she would be paying for the PPI policy.  Also she would  
have to find the full cost of the PPI premium on redemption of her mortgage.
Furthermore, I do not consider there was clear information set out about the cost of a single  premium 
policy compared to the cost of a monthly premium policy  so that Miss G could have easily  understood 
the differences between the two policy  types.
The term of the policy Miss G took out was for five years and the mortgage was over a term of 19 
years. Im not persuaded  that TMN made Miss G fully aware of the implications of the mismatch  in 
these terms.  If she wanted  to protect her mortgage payments for the term of the mortgage then she 
would have had to purchase a succession of single  premium policies or she could have moved on to 
a monthly premium policy at the end of the term of the single premium policy. However, in both 
instances she would, in effect, be paying  for two policies at the same time as she would still have to 
find the cost of, and be paying interest on, the original single premium policy. 
These issues are all in addition to the suitability of the policy recommended by TMN  when Miss G was 
self-employed.
So considering all the information and evidence I have seen so far, Im not satisfied Miss G was 
provided with adequate information about the costs, the term mis-match  and the implications of the 
type of policy she was buying. And I think it likely if full information had been provided  Miss G would  
not have purchased the single premium  PPI policy at the time to cover unemployment,  sickness or 
accident. 
Therefore I am intending  to fully uphold that the PPI policy was mis-sold and intend to direct TMN to 
repay the full costs of the PPI policy  to Miss G, including any interest caused by the PPI being  added 
to her borrowings. TMN also need to pay 8% simple interest  as compensation to Miss G for any 
periods she was out of pocket for any costs of the PPI. 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI policy
When working out the compensation  due for a PPI complaint where  the policy  was mis-sold we 
expect a business  to, as far as possible, put a consumer in the position they would have been  if the 
PPI had never been sold to them. 
Ref: DRN11057055I have noted that TMN  has provided  a calculation  which  is says is for the full compensation  and this 
came to £3,408.96. However this calculation basically  refunded the basic premium plus 8% simple 
interest each  year from the date of sale, for 14 years, so to the date of the offer. This does not actually 
comply with the requirements I would expect when  calculating the compensation.
The calculation TMN had done provides 8% simple on the full premium from the start date of the 
policy, which actually is incorrect as Miss G was not out of pocket for the full amount from the start.  
But the calculation also does not take account of any interest  at the mortgage rate caused by the PPI. 
In the circumstances of this case the premium charged to Miss G was £1,608.00. This amount was 
added to the mortgage Miss G was borrowing for her own purposes. The mortgage Miss G took out 
was an interest  only mortgage which  meant that Miss G did not repay  any of her borrowings with her 
monthly payments,  she only paid the interest charged on the amount she had borrowed.  So some of 
her monthly  payment was for the interest on the amount she borrowed for the PPI premium but 
nothing was paid for the PPI premium until she cleared her mortgage. On the amount Miss G paid 
each month  for the interest on the PPI premium  Miss G was out of pocket, so should  get 8% simple 
interest on this.
Some information  has been provided by Miss Gs mortgage  company. It seems Miss G took out her 
mortgage on 29 September 2005  and repaid  the full amount in January  2011.  Until she repaid the full 
amount she was not out of pocket for any of the £1,608.00 for the premium. But from January 2011 
she has been  out of pocket for this amount in full, in addition to the interest caused by the PPI 
premium borrowings. So from January 2011 she has been out of pocket for the full amount of the PPI 
costs.  
Having undertaken a simple calculation it would  appear the compensation  should produce figures 
along the following lines.
The interest  rate on the mortgage (and so on the PPI premium) was fixed at 4.89% for five years and 
then reduced  to 4.79%.  This means Miss G was paying around  £6.50  each month on the PPI 
premium. This dropped  to around £6.40 when  the mortgage  rate changed in September 2010. In total 
I have estimated Miss G paid around £418.00 in interest on the PPI premium and both the premium 
and the interest this caused  needs to be refunded.  
In addition 8% simple interest per year needs  to be calculated for any time Miss G was out of pocket. 
This would be on each  interest payment she made monthly until she redeemed  the mortgage in 
December 2011. Once she had paid back her mortgage she also had paid for the full premium 
amount. So after this point  8% simple interest is due on both the premium amount and the mortgage 
interest, a total of around £2.026.00.
8% simple interest needs calculating to the date of final settlement on the monthly  interest from when  
paid and on the total PPI cost of £2,026.00 from December  2011. As a guide  I have estimated the 
total 8% simple interest as at January  2020 is around £1,540.00.
Therefore taking all the totals for the PPI premium (£1,608.00), the interest at mortgage rate that was 
paid (£418.00) and the 8% simple interest to January 2020 (£1,540.00) the total compensation  due, 
before tax, is approximately £3,566.00.
The calculation undertaken by TMN  was a little generous with the 8% simple interest but did not take 
into account  any mortgage  rate interest so it was not accurate. 
In summary, I would anticipate Miss G would be receiving  around £3,570.00 before tax, in 
compensation. Any 8% simple interest would  need to be updated by TMN to the date of final 
settlement.
Ref: DRN11057056I would request that in response to this decision, in addition to any other points TMN wish to raise, it 
provides a figure to indicate what its actual offer would  be using the approach I have indicated above  
to calculate the compensation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, I am intending to fully 
uphold Miss Gs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold  and to tell Total  Mortgage Network Limited  to 
pay Miss G compensation  along  the lines of the calculations I have outlined. 
This is subject to any further information that is provided  by either  party  by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1105705