K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains about the repairs that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) made to her car under 
her motor insurance policy. She says that she lost her warranty  because of this. Miss D is 
represented in this matter by her mother,  Mrs D. 
background
Miss Ds car was damaged in an accident and UKI took it to its approved garage for repairs. 
Miss D was unhappy with these and an engineer twice  inspected the car. He agreed  
remedial work was needed.  UKI lastly said Miss D could have this done  at her choice of 
garage and it paid Miss D £500 compensation for her trouble and upset.  Miss D had another  
accident and the repairing engineer said the previous work was poor. UKI sent an engineer  
to inspect this. Mrs D was unhappy  with his attitude.  He didnt find any faults.  But Mrs D 
disagreed and said the manufacturers warranty had been  affected.
UKI asked  Miss D to provide a report from the manufacturer  that the works were poor, and 
this had affected her warranty.  But Mrs D said the manufacturer  needed a full list of the 
works done and the materials used. She said the list UKI provided wasnt  detailed  enough. 
She said UKI had blocked her emails.  Mrs D provided an invoice  for paintwork that had been  
done by her repairer with comments about the previous repairs.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mrs D 
hadnt been pressured into using  a non-manufacturers garage.  And she thought she hadnt 
been told that if she didnt, then she wouldnt get a hire car. She thought  Mrs D had chosen 
to use the approved garage.  
She thought  Mrs D hadnt provided persuasive  independent engineering evidence  to show 
that the paintwork was still faulty.  She thought there wasnt enough evidence to show that 
the car was in a poor condition and that the warranty was invalidated because  of this. She 
thought UKIs offer of compensation  was fair and reasonable. 
She thought  there wasnt evidence to substantiate that the dealer wouldnt give an 
independent view on the repairs. She couldnt  see evidence  that Mrs Ds email address had 
been blocked by UKI. She didnt  think the manufacturers warranty had been invalidated as 
no mechanical work had been done  and there  wasnt  enough evidence  to show that the 
paintwork had caused a defect. 
Mrs D didnt reply  to the investigators view. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Ds accident. I can understand  that this must  have been  a 
very frightening experience. And, since then, shes had the frustration  and stress  of dealing 
with her claim for repairs  to her virtually new car. 
Ref: DRN15055432I can see that Mrs D has raised several  issues on Miss Ds behalf. I think  they stem from 
having the car repaired by UKIs  approved repairer rather than a dealer and the effect  this 
had on the cars warranty. 
Like our investigator,  Ive considered what happened in the first call Mrs D made  to UKI after 
the accident. Mrs D recalled an earlier call, but I havent seen evidence of this. In the call I 
reviewed, Mrs D discussed the accident and the repairs. Mrs D asked if the repairs would be 
made at a dealers garage. I think UKIs  agent  raised the benefits of using its approved  
repairer. And then Mrs D agreed to this. I dont  think Mrs D was then pressurised into using 
the approved  repairer. And I dont think she was told she wouldnt get a hire car if she didnt. 
I can see that UKI has agreed  that the repairs carried out were poor. And I can understand 
the distress this must  have caused. When theres a dispute over repairs,  wed expect the 
repairing garage to carry out remedial work. If the dispute continued, then wed expect an 
engineer to be appointed  to inspect the work.  I can see that UKI arranged this, which I think  
was fair and reasonable. But as Mrs D remained unhappy, it agreed to pay for the final 
repairs to be made  at a garage of her own choice.  I think  that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs D later provided an invoice for further  work she had done which said the previous 
paintwork repairs had been sub-standard  due to poor adhesion.  But in UKIs engineers last 
inspection, he thought the repairs were  satisfactory.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that UKI considered the evidence  provided. I think Mrs Ds evidence lacks  detail. 
And I think UKI reasonably relied  on the detailed report provided by its qualified  engineer.  
UKI also offered  to consider a report from the dealers garage that showed that the repairs 
were still not right.  Mrs D had earlier said it would need a detailed list of the repairs and 
materials used in order to provide this. I think UKI reasonably  provided  a list of the work 
done. I havent seen evidence from the dealer that it needed anything  further.  
UKI agreed  that the service and communication from its garage  had been poor. It 
acknowledged that Mrs D was unhappy with the attitude and comments of its own engineer. 
I have no doubts  about what Mrs D has told us, and UKI. I can see that UKI apologised for 
this. But as I dont  have independent  evidence about  what happened, I cant  say that UKI 
should do anything  further on this point.   
Mrs D was concerned that UKIs repairs would affect  the cars  warranty. I think  UKI 
reasonably contacted the dealer to ascertain what effect this would have. And it then wrote  
to Mrs D to tell her that it had it in writing from the dealer that the manufacturers standard  
warranty would still be valid unless something  was to go wrong as a result  of the work UKI 
carried out. And UKI told Mrs D that its work had a five-year warranty. UKI didnt carry out 
any mechanical repairs, so this part of the warranty wouldnt be affected. So I havent seen 
any evidence to show that UKIs repair  work  has affected Miss Ds cars warranty. 
Ref: DRN15055433To put things right for Miss D, UKI paid her £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. This took into account the delay in completing the repairs, their poor quality and the 
need for remedial  repairs,  its communication, the service she received from the repairer  and 
its engineer, and her petrol costs. I think thats in keeping with what  Id require in similar 
circumstances, so I think that was fair and reasonable. I dont require UKI to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1505543