K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Oakam  Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about an instalment loan, for £400,  which Oakam  provided to Mr A on 
1 November 2017. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint as he didnt think Mr A had been treated 
unfairly. Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Mr A could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Oakam says it agreed to Mr As application after he provided details of his monthly income  
and regular monthly outgoings,  and it had carried out a credit check. Even  though Oakam  
carried out a credit check, the regulations didnt require it to do so and from what  Ive seen 
the checks didnt  suggest that Mr A wouldnt be able to make the repayment he was 
committing to. I accept  that the check showed that Mr A had previously been  in arrears but 
the arrears were satisfied  by the time of the loan. Also, Mr A had historic defaults on his file 
but I dont think  any of those entries  should have  prevented Qakam from lending to him as 
they dont suggest hed have struggled to repay  the loan.  
Following Mr As complaint, as a goodwill gesture, Oakam has agreed to remove  all interests 
and charges from the loan and has frozen the balance at the principal amount of £400.  Its 
important for me to say that taking into account  the circumstances of this loan, I dont  think 
Oakam did anything wrong by lending to Mr A. And even if I did think  that Oakam had done 
something wrong, the appropriate redress would be to ask Oakam to refund any interest  and 
charges Mr A had paid towards the loan but hed still be liable for the loan capital. I can see 
that Mr A hasnt repaid any part of the loan and so in relation to this loan, Mr A hasnt 
suffered any financial  loss.
Ref: DRN19802992Mr As representative has said that Mr A had gambling problems and has provided 
information to show that Mr A went into counselling for gambling. Mr As representative also 
says that Mr A owes several thousands of pounds  to other family members and Oakam  was 
wrong to lend to a vulnerable consumer.  He says Oakam should  have been aware of Mr As 
gambling problem  and his debts to other  lenders.
While I appreciate that Mr A has had a challenging time with managing  his money  and 
having difficulties  with debt to family and other lenders, I dont think it was reasonable at this 
stage in the lending relationship for Oakam  to carry out a detailed  check about Mr As 
financial circumstances or verify  the information  he provided. Oakam was entitled to rely on 
the information Mr A provided at the time of this loan. And based on that information, Mr A 
could afford  the loan.
I accept that Mr As actual  circumstances  werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other  information Oakam obtained.  And Mr As actual financial position 
might well have been apparent  if further information  such  as bank statements  had been 
obtained. But I don think thats something  Oakam needed to do here.
Ive considered Mr As submission about the outstanding balance being written  off even 
though hes had the benefit of the money. I think there are two things for me to bear in mind  
in relation to this. Firstly,  whether the lending was so irresponsible  that Oakam  should have 
known Mr A wouldnt be able to pay it back. As stated above, I dont think this loan was 
wrongly lent.
The second  consideration  is whether theres  any prospects of Mr A being  able to take control  
of his finances and get into a position to repay  this loan. Ive thought about this very carefully 
and Mr A has started taking steps  to deal with his gambling problem and has been in 
counselling. Ive also not seen any evidence  that suggest Mr A wouldnt be able to get paid 
work. Mr A is likely to struggle to repay this loan due to his level of indebtedness,  but overall,  
I dont think theres enough here for me to say Oakam should write  off the capital borrowed.
My role is to look at whether Oakam has done something wrong and from what Ive seen, 
I dont think that it has done anything wrong but has treated Mr A fairly in the circumstances.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr A and his representative but I hope 
my explanation goes  some way in helping Mr A understand why Ive reached these 
conclusions.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr As complaint and make no awards against Oakam Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1980299