K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (trading  as Tesco  Bank)  charged him a 
cash transaction fee (and interest) on a credit  card purchase.
background
In January 2019 Mr S bought a product on credit. He paid a deposit  of £129 with his Tesco  
credit card, and agreed to pay the balance in monthly payments. A few days later he noticed 
that Tesco had charged him a cash transaction fee of £5.15, and 41p in interest. He 
complained, but Tesco  said the fee had been correctly charged. It told him it had sent him a 
notice of variation  of the terms and conditions  of his account in the previous April, which had 
said that the definition of cash  transactions  would include payments towards  loans.
Mr S brought this complaint to our Service. He said that the retailer  should have warned him 
on its website that his purchase  would incur a credit  card fee. But our adjudicator  did not 
uphold his complaint. She said that the fee had been correctly  charged, and that Tesco  was 
not responsible  for the information the retailer included on its website. She also said it was 
not our Services role to tell businesses to change their practices, as that is a matter  for the 
regulator. Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it, for broadly the same  
reasons as our adjudicator.
It is not in dispute  that Mr S received the notice of variation. I have read it. It says:
Cash transactions are gambling transactions, wire or international money  transfers, 
repaying borrowing  (e.g. loans and mortgages)
That clause is conspicuous, because it appears directly above a red box containing  the 
words the types  of transactions classified as cash are listed  above.
It is not in dispute  that Mr S was buying  goods on credit. He has argued that the deposit  
should not count, because it is not a loan repayment  but a payment up front. But a deposit is 
still part of the total amount payable under the loan agreement, so I think that Tesco  was 
right to count it as a cash transaction,  given the definition I have quoted above.
Tesco isnt responsible for what the retailer says on its website. Nor is it my role to tell all 
lenders that they must start telling their customers that their credit card provider may charge  
them a cash  transaction fee if they pay their loan deposit with a credit card. That would  be a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
Ref: DRN10291382my final decision
So for the above reasons,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029138