K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt refund him all of the payments taken  out of his 
account while he was in hospital  and that they withdrew an offer of compensation made to 
him.
background
Mr G was unfortunately in a serious  road traffic  accident in December 2012 while he was 
abroad which left him with permanent damage. He was in hospital from 25 December 2012  
to 21 June 2013 and was unconscious for some  of this time. A Deprivation of Liberty 
authorisation was granted for three months  from 21 February 2013 to 22 May 2013. 
While he was in hospital, a number of direct  debits and other payments left Mr Gs account. 
After being discharged from hospital  Mr G applied for a refund, under the Direct Debit  
Guarantee (DDG), of the direct debit payments that had left his account. 
In August  2013,  Lloyds provided Mr G a refund in the sum of £3160.37 under the terms of 
the DDG. This was for a period of four months.  They cancelled  the direct  debits  and asked 
Mr G to let the originators  (those  claiming  the payments  under the direct  debit) know of his 
decision to cancel so that they didnt claim any further payments. 
Mr G said that the direct  debit refunds should have been for a period of 6 months,  and not 
four months, to cover  the time he was in hospital.  Due to this Lloyds initially  offered Mr G a 
further £500 as an estimate  for the two months  which he claimed  he did not receive a refund 
 they were unable  to verify at this time whether any payments had left Mr Gs account in 
May and June 2013 and if so what the exact  amounts were. Mr G didnt think  that £500 
covered the payments that had left his account  in the additional  two months.  
Lloyds further  investigated the matter and it transpired that the original refund provided to  
Mr G in 2013 covered  all of the direct debit payments that had left Mr Gs account  while  he 
was in hospital. These were for a period of four months because  no further direct debits 
were taken from Mr Gs account in May and June 2013. Lloyds therefore withdraw the offer 
of £500 which was meant to cover the payments in May and June 2013.
Mr G disagreed that all the direct  debit payments had been refunded and is also unhappy 
that Lloyds withdrew  their offer.  He is also complaining that other debit card payments had 
left his account while he was in hospital when they shouldnt have done.
Our investigator considered this complaint and concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything  
wrong. Mr G didnt  agree with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed tome 
to decide. Mr G also raised other matters. However, these are being  dealt with separately 
under different complaint  references.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Lloyds  didnt  do anything wrong and so 
dont have to compensate  Mr G. I appreciate Mr G may be disappointed  by this outcome but 
I will now go on to explain why Ive reached  this decision. 
Ref: DRN11292512direct debits
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Gs bank statements from December 2012 and June 2013. I note that 
while direct debits were taken out following  Mr Gs accident towards  the end of December 
2012 and up to, and including, April 2013,  no further direct debits were  taken  out in May and 
June 2013. Its clear from these statements that Lloyds have refunded Mr G all the direct 
debits payments that were taken from his account  while he was in hospital.
withdrawal of offer
Lloyds made  Mr G an offer of compensation on the mistaken understanding  that they had 
not refunded the direct  debits in full. This offer was a gesture  of good will and gave Mr G the 
benefit of the doubt as Lloyds hadnt at that stage investigated the matter.
However, as noted above, when they investigated the matter, it transpired that Lloyds had in 
fact refunded all of the direct debits from the time Mr G was in hospital and so I think its fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances that Lloyds  withdrew their offer.  Lloyds also refunded  
Mr G the cost of the calls to them.
debit card/other  payments
Mr G says other payments left his account  while  he was in hospital, including while he was 
unconscious. Mr G says Lloyds should refund these card payments to him. These payments 
appear to have been continuous payment authorities (CPAs). These are not covered by a 
guarantee in the way that direct debits are.  Essentially Mr G was paying for subscription  
services and would have provided  his card details to the service/product  providers 
(merchants) to pay for the service/product  on a regular  basis. It would have been for Mr G to 
cancel these payments  either with the merchants or Lloyds  if he no longer needed or wanted 
the services/products. We have asked Lloyds for any evidence that Mr G did try to cancel 
these CPAs. However, Lloyds have  said that they have  not found  any evidence  that Mr G did 
try and cancel the CPAs  with them.  As  I havent seen any evidence  that Lloyds  were  at fault 
for the payments leaving the account, I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask Lloyds to 
refund these payments.
I appreciate that the reason Mr G may not have been able to cancel the CPAs at the time 
was because of the condition he was in while in hospital. Mr G could contact the merchants 
to explain this and it may be that they can refund the payments to Mr G. I understand that 
one of the merchants has provided  refunds already.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1129251