K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking a credit  card.  He says he was sold 
the PPI while he was filling in a leaflet  he was given. Halifax  says it sold the card and PPI in 
a branch. With all this in mind, and the branch details on the application  form (which  Mr C 
and Halifax appear  to have signed on the same  day), I think Mr Cs application for the card 
and PPI was most likely made at a meeting in a branch.
According to his application form, Mr C worked at the time as an administrative assistant and 
had been employed there  for 8 months.  He has told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay 
and three  months  pay for redundancy and he didnt have any other  means of paying  his 
credit card if he couldnt work.  He has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, as well as life and 
critical illness cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim for 
unemployment or disability, the policy offered to pay 10% of Mr Cs credit card balance.  The 
life and critical illness cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the card balance on death or 
critical illness. Halifax says the policy cost 78p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding balance.  
The premium attracted interest  and had to continue  being paid during a successful claim.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in 2006.
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Cs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Cs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr C about  
the poor value;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim. 
Ref: DRN15896952Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr C disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN15896953Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. The credit  card application form had 
a box to mark if PPI was wanted. On Mr Cs form, this box is marked.  The mark is printed on 
the form, like other details of Mr Cs application.  Mr C signed the form, and I think its likely 
the mark in the PPI box reflects  the outcome of a discussion Halifax had with Mr C before 
the form was printed  for him to sign. Above the PPI box, and a box for another  product, the 
Ref: DRN15896954form says: If you would  like to take advantage of these services  please mark the relevant 
boxes. I think  it is apparent that if PPI wasnt wanted, the PPI box should  be left unmarked.
So although  Mr C has said he had no interest  in PPI and he has said it was just included  as 
part of the package with his card, taking everything  into account I think its more likely Mr C 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr C hasnt said Halifax didnt  give advice. 
Taking all this into account, Im persuaded Halifax gave advice during the sale.  This means  
Halifax had to advise  Mr C with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy 
was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C. There is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some 
limited information about  Mr Cs financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr C would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Halifax considered  whether Mr C had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr C given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Cs circumstances.
-Mr C had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Cs ability  to continue to meet his 
credit card payments  would have been put under strain if he was not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the redundancy  pay and statutory sick pay 
he says he would  have been  entitled  to.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Cs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that could 
have affected  his ability to claim.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr C.
the information
Ref: DRN15896955Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr C was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr C would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr C would have taken the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was.
Im also satisfied Mr C would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr C 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr C 
might have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that he based  his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr C. Im not persuaded that Halifax gave Mr C all of the information  he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Cs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr C about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
Ref: DRN15896956claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr C? To what extent  did Mr C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr C, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr C would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mr C says he would not have taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  I have considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event he was unable to work because 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made 
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr C ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept Halifax didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So while Mr C didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
the policy on and found acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN15896957The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  recurring  within 12 months of the 
policy start if that issue was a chronic  or continuing  disease  or if, during the year before 
the start,  significant  symptoms were experienced or it was diagnosed  by or investigated 
by, or advice or treatment for it had been suggested by, a medical practitioner;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr C be unable  to do his own 
work and also unable to do other work  his experience or training would allow  him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think  he still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr C 
from taking the policy,  Mr C, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mr C had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable  to do his own 
work but also unable  to do any work  his experience or training would allow  him to do, it might  
have played into his thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given him pause for 
thought  although given  Mr Cs circumstances,  on balance, I think he would have still been 
interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr C would have  taken  the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what he 
thought he was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding his employment benefits and taking into account  his lack of other means.  
And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN15896958the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr C would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that he would still have  taken the PPI had 
he been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was buying. So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude  
Halifax should pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr C, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr C and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN15896959my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1589695