K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) registered a default against 
him, even  though hed tried to set up a repayment plan.
background
Mr W had a current account  with NatWest, with an arranged overdraft of £3,000.  In 
November 2017,  NatWest decided to close his account in line with its terms and conditions, 
and it gave him 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. It also advised  
that the account was overdrawn above  its limit, and so Mr W would need to make  
arrangements to repay this.
When the account balance hadnt been  repaid, it was referred to NatWests debt recoveries 
team in January 2018. A default  was then registered on Mr Ws credit file in 
May 2018. 
Mr W is unhappy that a default  has been registered  against him. He says he called NatWest 
several times to set up a repayment plan,  and amongst other  things, was told he couldnt. He 
also says he wasnt given  sufficient notice that a default would be registered  on his credit 
file.
Our investigator thought NatWest had been  clear about what would happen  if Mr W didnt  
make repayments towards  the debt. And, whilst  she considered that Mr W said he called 
NatWest several times to make a payment she hadnt seen anything to support that. Mr W 
didnt accept the outcome and so the case has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  as 
some of it is here,  I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  that is available to me. 
Having reviewed everything, Ive decided to not uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him, so Ill explain my reasons why.
Mr W doesnt think the letters he received relating to the account closure clearly stated that a 
default would be registered on his credit  file if he didnt make repayments  towards  his 
overdraft. Ive looked at a sample of the letter Mr W wouldve been sent in November 2017. 
This letter says:
Unless you repay the debt in full within 60 days,  we may share information about  this debt 
with the following Credit Reference  AgenciesWhen this information is shared with Credit 
Reference Agencies it may affect  your credit rating for up to six years.
Whilst the letter doesnt specifically mention a default, Im satisfied it states that information  
may be sent to Credit  Reference Agencies  and explains how long this could remain on the 
Ref: DRN13905332credit file. So with this in mind, I think NatWest were clear about what might happen if Mr W 
didnt make payments  towards his debt.
Mr W says he called NatWest several times  to arrange a repayment  plan.  He said it often 
took a long time to be connected to an agent and when he did get through,  he was either 
told he couldnt make  a payment or that someone would contact him about setting up a plan 
 but that never happened. NatWest no longer holds copies of any call recordings from the 
period in question, and I understand Mr Ws disappointment here, as this all happened fairly 
recently. However, NatWest has been  able to send  its debt management  contact notes, 
which have details of calls between  Mr W and NatWest.
The contact  notes provided only have a record of two calls from Mr W  in December 2017 
and late January 2018. Whilst  the notes dont  detail what  was discussed in the first call, they 
do show that Mr W called to discuss a repayment  plan in the call from late January 2018. 
However, there doesnt appear to be any further contact made by Mr W following this. I have  
considered that Mr W says he called several times  since then, but Im afraid that the 
information Ive seen doesnt support this. 
Ive also noted  that the default wasnt registered  until May 2018,  and so Mr W wouldve had 
around seven months to make payment into the account, from the point he was given  60 
days notice. But I cant see that Mr W made any payments into the account.  So, I think  its 
likely that Mr W wouldve  still been  in a position  where he owed money.  And, failing to repay 
the balance in full may have still resulted in NatWest recording a default  even if Mr W had 
managed to agree a repayment  plan.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr W wouldve known  his account was in arrears and action needed to 
be taken prior to when  the default was added in May 2018. And I dont think NatWest  has 
acted unfairly by recording a default  on Mr Ws credit file. NatWest has a duty to report  
accurate information  to Credit Reference  Agencies  and as Mr W owed money which  he 
hadnt repaid,  it is accurate and fair to say he was in default.  Even  if Mr W had agreed a 
repayment plan,  NatWest might still have  been entitled to record  a default anyway. For these 
reasons I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to remove  the default 
from his credit file.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Hana Yousef
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1390533