K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) polices  taken out in 
2002 and 2007. Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society  Nationwide  (trading  as 
Dunfermline Building Society) mis-sold them the PPI. 
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the PPI only covered Mr S for 
unemployment on both policies.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 November 2018, a copy  of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a 
final decision. Neither Mr and Mrs S nor Nationwide sent me anything  further to consider.      
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  mortgage  payment  protection insurance (PPI) polices taken  out in 2002 and 
2007. Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide  Building  Society Nationwide (trading as Dunfermline  Building 
Society) mis-sold  them the PPI. 
The mortgage  was taken out in joint names, but the PPI only covered Mr S for unemployment  on both 
policies.  
Ref: DRN11334922my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I currently think the policy  wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs S say that they were  not told the policy  was optional.  As I wasnt there at the time,  I 
cant be sure what  was said to Mr and Mrs S when they made their application   so I have to base  
my decision on the information I do have. 
Nationwide has provided copies of paperwork completed at the time Mr and Mrs S applied for 
their mortgages and polices  this includes their mortgage applications and separate applications  
for PPI. Theres nothing in the mortgage applications that suggests PPI is a condition of the 
mortgage, or that an application would  be looked on more favourably by taking  the polices.  And 
as Mr and Mrs S completed a separate application  form for the PPI policies,  this shows that they 
were separate products. 
Ive seen copies of the application forms that were completed for the PPI. Mr and Mrs S have  
chosen to cover Mr S for unemployment only  tailoring the type of cover they wanted as there 
were other options available.  Theyve signed the form  confirming their choices.
Nationwide has also provided its internal records  of Mr and Mrs S asking to keep the PPI policy 
running after their mortgage  with Nationwide  had been redeemed in 2009.  So taking everything in 
to account, I think its likely  Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt  have to take out the 
PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why they cant  remember this.
From what I have read and been told I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI policies to 
Mr and Mrs S so it didnt have  to check if they were right for them. But Nationwide  did have  to 
make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed to decide, for themselves,  if they were 
right for them.  
Its possible  the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think better  
information about  the PPI would have put them  off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have said but these  points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought  about  whether Nationwide  needs to give Mr and Mrs S some of the commission they 
paid back. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage became  a 
regulated mortgage before  6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of 
the commission  Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  mentioned  above, Im currently not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN1133492