K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited ceased payments under her 
group income protection policy when  she was made  redundant. 
For ease I will refer only to Aviva, who have taken over responsibility from the former 
underwriters. Likewise I will only refer to Mrs L, although representations have been made 
on her behalf by her daughter.
background
Mrs L was made redundant on 31 December 2008. At that time she was in receipt  of benefit 
due to incapacity. Aviva ceased paying  her benefit on the termination of her employment in 
accordance with the terms  of her policy. However  Mrs L believed she had been  red-circled  
and so would continue receiving benefit  until her retirement. She also felt that she had been 
treated differently to some colleagues  who had continued to receive benefits after their 
redundancy.  Aviva didnt  uphold her complaint, so she referred it here.
Our investigator considered all the representations but didnt conclude that Aviva had done 
anything wrong. Mrs L appealed.  She said that she presumed she wasnt covered under the 
policy but that she was covered under an endorsement which attached  to the policy.
my findings
Ive only included a brief summary but Ive considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs L was covered under a group scheme  taken out by her former employer. Whilst still 
employed she made a claim which was accepted.  However, when her employment  came to 
an end because of her redundancy, she was no longer covered by the policy. Although  I can 
see that enquiries were  made by her employer at the time, no agreement was made  to 
continue or commute benefit  for Mrs L. 
The policy document confirms that payments under  the policy  will cease on the employee 
leaving the service  of the employer. Likewise the policyholders  schedule  shows that no 
continuation option was in place. Mrs L agrees that the policy wording means  that cover  will 
come to end if shes no longer employed by the policyholder. However  she believes that 
there was an endorsement  to the policy which meant she would be covered following her 
redundancy. I understand her strength  of feeling about this, but unfortunately Ive seen no 
evidence that any such endorsement or red circling was in place.  Ive made further  
enquiries and Aviva confirms that there  was no endorsement. This being so I cant  say that 
Aviva did anything wrong when it terminated her payment when  she became redundant on 
31 December 2008.
I havent disregarded what Mrs L has said about other former employees. She believes that 
some are still in receipt of benefit.  But Im not able to comment  on their circumstances, Im 
only able to consider  Mrs Ls complaint. And as Im not persuaded that there was any 
agreement in place  for her benefit  to be continued, I cant  say that Aviva treated her unfairly 
by terminating  her benefit when they did as she was no longer covered by the policy.  
Ref: DRN11047562my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1104756