K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by FirstRand Bank  Limited  trading as MotoNovo  Finance was not of satisfactory quality. 
He wants to reject the vehicle and obtain  a full refund.
background 
Mr S tells us he acquired the vehicle, in February 2019, from a dealer Ill refer to as O. 
Shortly after taking the vehicle he says he noticed various issues with the paintwork and 
parts of the bodywork. He mentions poor quality paintwork with flaking and that the front 
bumper and lights werent fitted properly. Mr S says hes provided  an independent vehicle 
inspection report from a company Ill refer to as D. And he says this report  confirms there 
are faults  with the paintwork and also supports  other  parts of his complaint. He thinks  the 
vehicle had previously  been involved in an accident and wants  to reject it.
MotoNovo told us that Mr S had inspected the vehicle prior to entering the agreement. And it 
was up to him to check for cosmetic issues. As hed accepted the vehicle and accepted  its 
cosmetic condition it wasnt  prepared  to assist.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He issued two views. He noted 
that Ds report had identified faults  with the paintwork  and the bumpers. He thought that any 
concerns with the paintwork shouldve  been raised  with O at the time of supply. But he felt 
that the faults with the bumpers were less easily identifiable. And he thought MotoNovo should 
pay for repairs to the bumpers and refund the cost of Ds inspection. He said it should also 
take note of the current paintwork issues so that Mr S wouldnt be liable for any related 
damage charges  should he decide  to return the vehicle at the end of the contract.
MotoNovo accepted the adjudicators view but stipulated - in view of cost issues - that the 
repairs should be carried out at a VAT registered non-franchised repair  centre. The 
adjudicator thought this was fair as the vehicle  hadnt been  acquired through a main dealer. 
Mr S rejected this view and said he wanted  the car to be returned  to factory standard and he 
thought such repairs had to be done  by a main dealer. As its not been possible to resolve 
this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr S isnt satisfied with this recently  acquired vehicle.  And I accept its 
disappointing if goods dont fulfil expectations.
Mr Ss hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN10204782Briefly summarised this states that theres  an implied term in relevant contracts - which  
includes hire purchase  agreements - that goods, in order to conform to contract, should be of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And that can include such matters as appearance 
and finish. But where goods have been examined  by the consumer prior to supply it doesnt 
cover anything that makes the quality of the goods unsatisfactory  which the inspection  ought 
to have revealed.
Ive seen Ds report and this identifies  various issues with the vehicle. And it mentions there 
have been earlier paintwork repairs which I think,  given the description in the report,  can be 
fairly characterised  as of poor quality. And it identifies that the front bumper is not fitted  
correctly and that theres a dent in the rear bumper.
Although theres  no doubt there  are faults with the paintwork finish Ds report  indicates these 
are clearly  visible.  And so Id expect them to be readily apparent  upon  any reasonable 
inspection of the vehicle prior to supply. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to say the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality due to these faults. 
And as MotoNovo has now agreed  to pay for the cost of repairs  to the bumpers  and refund 
the costs of the inspection I think thats a fair offer. Theres  no plausible information  to say 
the vehicles previously been in an accident which would compromise its safety or that the 
issues with the bumpers are anything more  than relatively minor defects.
Im aware Mr S has mentioned hes spoken to a Trading Standards  representative. And its 
apparently on the basis  of this conversation that he feels  hes entitled to have  the vehicle 
repaired to the manufacturers factory standard. As I wasnt  a party to that conversation I 
cant say precisely what advice Mr S was given or whether  he understood it correctly. But 
the CRA  requires only that any repair should  return the vehicle to a standard which  conforms  
to contract. In other  words  it has to be returned  to what wouldve been  considered 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply. In the case of a brand  new vehicle that might mean 
factory standard. But with a used  vehicle - the vehicle  here was five years old when supplied 
to Mr S - thats not whats required.
In summary,  Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint but I think the offer made  by MotoNovo is fair 
and reasonable.  Im not asking it to do anything more in terms of the nature of the repairs  its 
paying for. Ive no idea how long these repairs will take but if Mr S isnt provided  with a 
courtesy vehicle Id expect MotoNovo - upon proof of the time Mr S is without the vehicle due 
to the repairs  - to credit  his account with the relevant proportion of any monthly payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  I now require FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo to take 
the following  action:
1.Upon proof of payment or invoice, refund or pay the cost of repairs  to the front and rear 
bumper of the vehicle; the repair is to be carried out by a VAT registered non - 
franchised repair centre;
2.Credit Mr Ss account for any period he is without the vehicle due to these repairs  being  
carried out if hes not supplied with a courtesy vehicle;
Ref: DRN102047833.Refund the cost of the independent report (£199) to Mr S, together  with simple interest 
at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement;
4.Provide Mr S with written confirmation that he wont be liable for end of contract  damage  
charges relating  to those issues which have been the subject matter  of this complaint, 
namely paintwork and repairs  to front and rear bumpers.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1020478