K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wrongly told her she had to take out 
life cover to protect  her mortgage  borrowing, and that she didnt  need  or want this 
particularly given she had cover via her employer.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel that the complaint should be upheld.
He said that while Mrs M had cover through her employer this did not make the 
recommendation for guaranteed and specific mortgage protection unreasonable. Mrs M 
could have changed jobs or her employer cut the benefit at some  point  during  the mortgage  
duration, and Mrs M did in fact leave this job fairly soon after taking out the cover.
He noted that the policy  was a decreasing term assurance plan, suitable for a repayment 
mortgage. Further, Nat West had explained that the first policy was stopped and replaced 
with a second one when  Mrs Ms mortgage  was increased. There were no penalties  for this 
cancellation so this second recommendation was also suitable.
Ms M did not agree,  and said:
I was told I required  this cover  and I didn't need it. This is the whole point of the idea 
mis-selling as a concept
In all my years  I have never had to take an additional  policy  for death. If this had 
happened then the house would have been sold and mortgage paid off
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
There is not sufficient  evidence to conclude that the advisor told Mrs M the policies were 
compulsory and  from what  she explained recently   I think she is saying that he pressured 
her into taking these policies out rather than claiming he said they were a condition of any 
loan.
It is obviously unfortunate that key documents from the sale dates are no longer  available 
but given Mrs M cancelled the policies a decade ago this is not surprising. Businesses 
typically do not retain documents after a policy has been expired for more  than six years,  
and this is considered  good practice from a data protection  point  of view. So I cant  say that 
Nat West was wrong to delete documents from these two sales.
I also dont think it was wrong to recommend these policies (if that is all the advisor  did) as it 
is reasonable advice to put in place protection for borrowings - as long as this is affordable  - 
to be paid off in the event of death  where  one has dependents.
I recognise that Mrs M faced and still faces considerable financial challenges and feels  very 
strongly that the advisor sold her a serious of plans and policies which  she couldnt afford 
and that this made her financial situation  worse.  But unless there is evidence to conclude 
Ref: DRN12115052that she didnt  have any need to protect her large mortgage commitment I cannot  say the 
advisor was wrong  to recommend these specific policies.  It was then for her to decide 
whether she wanted  them  including deciding whether  they were affordable.
I double-checked with Mrs M that her mortgage/borrowing matched the two recommended 
levels of cover, which she confirmed. I cant therefore say she was advised  to take out more  
cover than she needed. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1211505