K821x#15complaint
Miss S and Mr B held, in trust, two Standard Life International  Bonds (the bonds) which  
were managed with advice from Fourways Financial Guidance LLP (Fourways). They  say 
Fourways delay in executing their instruction to move the majority of the bonds  into cash led 
to a financial loss when the move  was completed, by which time the bonds were devalued.
background
A summary  of the key events is as follows:
On 6 July 2018  each  bond was valued at around £286,000. Miss S and Mr B 
instructed Fourways to cash in £250,000 from each bond  retaining the cash  in the 
bonds and without surrendering the bonds.
A period of inaction  followed  in terms of executing the instruction  during which  
Miss S and Mr B sought updates and action from Fourways. Eventually, by 10 
September 2018, they had received relevant documentation from Fourways, 
completed them and submitted  them  to Standard  Life using the email  address 
provided by Fourways. At the time, each bond  was worth  around £290,000.
Another period  of inaction followed,  Miss S and Mr B contacted Fourways on 14 and 
then 16 October during which they learnt that no move to cash had been  executed  
and that their documentation  had not been received by Standard  Life because the 
email address  which Fourways  had provided to them  was wrong.  At this time 
each bond was worth around £267,000. On 17 October Fourways  appears  to have 
advised them that the value was likely to rise further in the following days.
Miss S and Mr B heard no further from Fourways. They  sought an update  on 22 
October. They refer to contact with their adviser  whilst he was in a rush and that he 
promised to give his written advice later in the day but briefly advised  them  to take no 
action in the interim. They say the advisers advice  had not been  received by 24 
October when each bonds value had dropped slightly to around £266,000. 
On 25 October Miss S and Mr B say they were  concerned by the lack of advice from 
Fourways and the continuing fall in value of the bonds so they contacted Standard  
Life directly to arrange the move to cash  during which  they learnt that the 
references numbers  Fourways  provided to them were also wrong.
Fourways position on the complaint is, in the main, as follows:
It acknowledges that its service to Miss S and Mr B in the matter fell below its 
standard and for the trouble and upset caused  to them it offers £500. 
However, from 10 September  2018, it asserts that Miss S and Mr B were obliged  to 
mitigate the matter.  It suggests that submission  to the wrong  email  address ought to 
have triggered  an undelivered message which they ought to have received  
though, it also concedes that this might not have been  the case.  It says they had 
access to information about the bonds  and that they would have known,  after 10 
September, that their instruction had not been  executed. It says they should have 
chased Standard Life for action within a week thereafter and had they done so, by 14 
September, the move would have completed  without any loss in value. It says it was 
not responsible  to chase, on their behalf,  for such action.
It accepts  that it gave Miss S and Mr B the wrong email address for Standard Life. It 
also accepts that it should  have responded to their contact on 14 October and 
thereafter. However, it considers that Miss S and Mr B  were  empowered to 
disinvest the funds (which they did on the 24th), wished to disinvest and were aware 
Ref: DRN11148452of the fall in value on the 14th  so  it seems  that they did not need any input 
from [Fourways] to disinvest the funds.
In response, Miss S and Mr Bs position is mainly  that  the documentation they submitted 
on 10 September was produced by Fourways; they signed and submitted it to Standard  Life; 
the email address they used was provided  by Fourways;  they were not advised to expect an 
acknowledgement of receipt from Standard Life and did not receive an undelivered email 
message; they had a history in which Fourways managed  their accounts and received 
copies of communications regarding their investments; this was the service they paid for and 
they relied on Fourways to manage their instruction to move to cash;  Fourways was not 
remote to the matter as it presently claims to have been and it is responsible  for the delay in 
executing their instruction  and the financial loss that has arisen from that.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld for broadly the same reasons  given  by Miss and Mr B. She noted  that, overall, they 
repeatedly made it clear  to Fourways at all relevant times, from 6 July, that their instruction 
and wish was to move to cash, so Fourways had a duty  which it did not discharge  to 
assist them.  She endorsed its offer of £500  for the trouble  and upset caused to them  and 
proposed that Fourways should also pay them the difference between the value of the 
encashment in both bonds in October 2018  and the value they would have  had in July 2018. 
Fourways did not accept  this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does not appear  that the delay  between 6 July and 10 September 2018 was 
consequential, in terms of the financial loss that Miss S and Mr B seek  to recover.  
Fortunately for them, the value of the bonds on 10 September had risen  slightly  from what  
they were on 6 July. In contrast, the delay  between 10 September and 25 October was 
consequential, with a total loss in value of the bonds of around £50,000 during this period to 
25 October  or a total loss of around £40,000  if compared to the value on 6 July.
Having said the above, I consider that the adjudicator applied the correct approach by 
defining the complaint  and, having upheld  it, her approach for redress  by the initial 
instruction in July. Evidence shows that Miss S and Mr B neither withdrew nor revised that 
initial instruction,  so I have considered their complaint in terms of whether (or not) Fourways 
is responsible for the delay  up to  25 October  in the execution  of that initial  instruction.
In the end, Fourways did not actually  execute the instruction  Miss S and Mr B did so 
themselves on 25 October  but it had a role to play in doing so and I do not accept its 
suggestions to the contrary.  Miss S and Mr B terminated its appointment in November 2018 
because of their experience in this matter and I have seen  correspondence  from the 
Fourways adviser before and after the termination,  in which he is expressly apologetic for 
their experience in the matter. His email after receiving their notice of termination included 
the following   I can understand fully your concerns and the action you have taken.
Indeed Fourways  appears to have wilfully  conceded  the following  that it produced the 
relevant documentation for the move  to cash; that it sent the documentation and incorrect 
Standard Life email address to Miss S and Mr B; that it received contact from them chasing 
for updates  and action on the matter;  and that it should have responded to them on 14 
Ref: DRN11148453October and thereafter,  but did not. Overall,  I am satisfied that Fourways  was responsible,  
as part of its service to Miss S and Mr B, for assisting them  in completing the move to cash.
Fourways says Miss S and Mr B share  (or own)  responsibility for some parts of the delay. As 
I said above, the delay up to 10 September  appears  to be inconsequential. From 10 
September it says they should have  chased Standard Life within a week and had they done 
so, the move  to cash would have been  completed  by 14 September  without a loss in value. 
This argument ignores what appears  to have been Fourways professional role in the matter  
 a role that, as I said above, should have continued until the move to cash  was completed.  
Given that it had been  instructed by Miss S and Mr B to execute the move to cash and it had 
undertaken that instruction, it was obliged to see the matter  to a conclusion.   
I understand a part of Fourways point  about the delay,  of around a month (until  14 October), 
in Miss S and Mr B seeking  an update from their adviser. It could be argued that they could  
have sought an update  much earlier. However, such an argument should be balanced by 
what appears to have been  their unawareness at the time about any problem with their 
submission (on 10 September). Their advisers email, prior to the submission, said Standard 
Life would  reply as quick as they can. Fourways says this ought to have indicated that they 
should expect  a prompt response, but this description could also have been interpreted  to 
mean no more than a reply would be issued when Standard Life was in a position to do so. 
It is plausible  that even if Miss S and Mr B continued  to be aware that the move to cash  had 
not taken place, they could have reasonably considered that there was a delay on Standard  
Lifes part  unaware that no action had been or was being taken on their application  
because it had been sent to the wrong email address. That wrong email address was 
Fourways fault. Miss S and Mr B say they did not receive an undelivered message and, 
despite its suggestion that they should have,  Fourways accepts that they equally might not 
have. They also say that they expected communication to have been received, on their 
behalf, by Fourways  as had been  the case in past matters. I consider this also plausible.  
Overall, I am not quite  persuaded that Miss S and Mr B hold or share  fault for the delay 
between 10 September and 14 October,  when they sought an update from Fourways.
Fourways essentially accepts that it should  have engaged  with Miss S and Mr B from 14 
October onwards   but it did not. I disagree  with its attempt  to justify its inaction  in this 
respect. They were in the position they found themselves in at the time because Fourways  
had given them the wrong email  address  they later appear to have discovered that they 
had also been  given the wrong reference  numbers.  But for that, their submission on 10 
September would  have  been received by Standard Life, the bond had appreciated in value  
at that time and even with allowance for time to rectify any erroneous  reference numbers it 
seems more likely  (than not) that the move to cash could have been completed at the time.
The idea that, from 14 October, Miss S and Mr B were empowered to complete the move  to 
cash without input  from Fourways, at least in terms of recovering some  of the value the 
bonds had lost, is not supported by the background summarised above. Fourways  had a 
responsibility to engage  with and assist them from 14 October. It appears that its failure to 
do so led them to consider they had no alternative but to complete the move to cash  
themselves, based  on the devalued  bonds.
Overall, on balance and at the times/periods  relevant to the financial loss that Miss S and Mr 
B have  claimed,  Fourways  appears  to have retained its position of responsibility for advice 
and assistance  in the pursuit to move  to cash and it does not appear to have discharged  that 
Ref: DRN11148454responsibility. I agree with the adjudicators endorsement of its offer of £500 for the trouble 
and upset caused to them and with her proposal for redress  for financial loss.
what must  Fourways do?
Fourways must:
Calculate the cash generated  from the assets  Miss S and Mr B liquidated in the 
bonds on the basis of their application  to Standard Life on 25 October 2018 (the 
liquidated assets)  and based  on their value at the point of liquidation  actual 
value. If Fourways  requires information  from Miss S and Mr B in order to calculate  
this, they should  provide such information.
Calculate the cash that would have been generated from liquidation of the liquidated 
assets based on their value on 6 July 2018   fair value . It is not possible to know  
precisely when the move  to cash would have been completed  if the relevant 
application was made on 6 July 2018,  but I consider that the value on this date will be 
a reasonable compromise.
Pay compensation if the fair value is greater  than the actual value. The difference  will 
be the compensation that must be paid to Miss S and Mr B. Interest  must  be paid on 
such compensation at the rate of 8% simple  per year from 6 July 2018 to the date of 
settlement. Income tax could be payable on such interest.
Pay Miss S and Mr B £500 for the trouble and upset caused  to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold the complaint from Miss S and Mr B. I order  Fourways  
Financial Guidance LLP to calculate  and pay compensation as detailed  above. It should also 
provide a copy of the calculation to Miss S and Mr B in a clear  and simple  format. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1114845