K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr D says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the Plan  B PPI policy which  
only included Life, Accident and Sickness  cover. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The information Ive seen suggests Mr D bought the policy  while making an online 
application for a credit card.  Screenshots  from the time also suggest  that its unlikely PPI 
wouldve been  added to Mr Ds account  unless he selected  one of the available  options. 
So I think  its most  likely that Barclays made  it clear Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr D chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it wouldve been  useful for him should  he have fallen ill and had 
to stop working suddenly. It also looks like the policy was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
 Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what hes said about being 
self-employed, his partner  being able to help and having cover  in place if he was injured at 
work. 
Mr D cant remember  much more about  this other insurance, and on the face of it, it looks 
like it provided him with a different type of cover to that of PPI. The PPI cover  he had didnt 
cover him for unemployment so Ive not had to look into what hes said about being 
self-employed. Lastly, help from others isnt guaranteed  so these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN12145012my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1214501