K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
when they were trying to port their mortgage product onto a new property. They  say that, as 
a result of acting on incorrect advice given by Santander, they are now substantially  out of 
pocket. They  want Santander  to reimburse their expenses  (including rent) and waive the 
early repayment charge  (ERC).
background 
The events leading up to the complaint can be summarised briefly.  Mr and Mrs G had a 
mortgage with Santander that was on a fixed rate product. If they repaid the mortgage during 
the fixed rate period, an ERC would be applied.
Six months  after taking  out the mortgage Mr and Mrs G decided  to move house.  They  found 
a suitable property and applied to Santander to port the mortgage product onto the new 
property, a house on a one-acre  plot, and 19 additional acres of paddock. Santander 
considered the application  and said that in order to fit its lending criteria, the title to the 
property would need to be split into two ten-acre plots. 
Mr and Mrs G engaged  a solicitor to do this. Santander then declined the mortgage 
application because  the valuer  hadnt been told that the plan was to split the title. The 
decline was appealed and in the meantime, wanting to move before  Christmas, Mr and 
Mrs Gs broker  sourced  a mortgage from another lender.  
Mr and Mrs G were able to negotiate  with their vendor to rent the property they wanted to 
buy, because  theyd already sold their property to facilitate the move and their buyers 
were moving in.
Mr and Mrs G complained  about the decision  to decline the mortgage after theyd followed 
Santanders requirements. They asked Santander to reimburse  their expenses,  including  
rent which theyd paid after theyd sold their existing property. Mr and Mrs G also thought  
Santander should reimburse or reduce the ERC, as well as the valuation fee theyd had to 
pay to their new lender.
Santander acknowledged it had made some errors, and offered compensation of £500  for 
trouble and upset.  Mr and Mrs G didnt think this was sufficient, and brought  the complaint to us. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. He thought Santander should reimburse the 
legal expenses Mr and Mrs G had incurred  in splitting  the title, which  their solicitor  has 
confirmed amounts to £294 + VAT of £58.80, making a total of £352.80. He didnt think 
Santander needed to reimburse  any of the other  expenses Mr and Mrs G were  claiming.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this. They say that the rental payments they had to make  left 
them much worse off as these were  £1,300  more  than the mortgage repayments. They want 
Santander to cover two months of these extra fees, so a further £2,600.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Ref: DRN13111142Its not in dispute  that Santander made a mistake, as a result  of which  Mr and Mrs G went to 
the trouble and expense of instructing solicitors to split the title to the property. I think  the 
£500 compensation already paid for trouble and upset, and the offer to reimburse  the legal 
fees totalling £352.80 is fair and reasonable.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs G have said about  their other  expenses. If Santander had 
told them  at the outset that it wouldnt lend on their new property, Mr and Mrs G would still 
have had to pay a valuation fee to their new lender, as well as the ERC. So I dont think  its 
fair to expect  Santander to reimburse  these.
As far as the rental payments  are concerned, I understand Mr and Mrs G sold their existing 
property as they didnt want to lose their buyers.  They did so before having a firm mortgage 
offer on their new property. In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs G assumed the risk of delay in 
the transaction. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G had a timeline in place that they wanted to keep 
to and to be in their new property by Christmas. But Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
expect Santander  to reimburse  any rental  payments incurred by Mr and Mrs G.
my final decision
My final decision is that, in addition to the £500  already paid for trouble and upset, 
Santander UK Plc must  reimburse Mr and Mrs Gs legal expenses of £294 + VAT of £58.80, 
making a total of £352.80. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311114