K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1997.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
The PPI policy was added to Ms Ps existing store card account  in June 1997. The policy  
was cancelled in August  1998. During that time Ms P was charged  £152.56  for PPI 
premiums.
Our adjudicator thought Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. FICL disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ps case. 
Having done so I am upholding  Ms Ps complaint, Ill explain why.
The policy sold to Ms P contained  an exclusion  meaning Ms P wouldnt have  been  able to 
make a claim for time off work due to a medical condition that had already been diagnosed.
I dont think FICL made this important exclusion clear to Ms P when she was sold the policy.
I think this would have  made a difference to Ms P as shes told us she had a pre-existing 
medical condition  in 1997. 
Ms P has told us she had an accident  in 1987 which broke  a bone causing her to take time 
off work. Miss P said the injury continued to give her discomfort. 
FICL has not disputed  that Ms P had the medical condition but it says it was likely to have 
been managed.  But I still think I should uphold this complaint as the insurance was to protect 
her payments in case she needed  to take time off going forward.  And I think  Ms P would 
think her medical condition to be one of the more  likely reasons she may need to take time 
off work in the future.
I dont think Ms P wouldve bought the policy if FICL had made her aware of the exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions.  
what FICL must do to put things right 
FICL should put Ms P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms P wouldve owed when the account was closed if the 
policy hadnt been  added.
Ref: DRN13666972So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms P owed when she closed the 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms P would  have owed 
when she closed the account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms P would have owed each month without PPI  Ms P 
paid more than enough  to clear  the balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Ms P paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on the credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give    
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Financial Insurance  Company Limited to pay Ms P 
compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1366697