K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by Mrs T as both joint policyholder and as joint executor and joint 
trustee (along  with their two daughters Ms H and Mrs S) on behalf  of the late Mr Ts estate.  
Mrs T and the late Mr T complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limiteds decision to 
decline their home insurance  claim for storm damage to their home and about its withdrawal 
of an offer of settlement  for the claim.
background
Mr and Mrs Ts daughters  Ms H and Ms S  are also joined to this complaint in their 
capacity as joint executors and trustees  of their late father,  Mr Ts, estate. And Ms H is 
acting as her parents  representative. For ease of reference, and because it was Mrs T that 
made the claim, Ill refer to her as bringing  it. 
Mrs T made a claim to Lloyds at the end of July 2018 having discovered water  coming  
through the ceiling after a heavy downpour. Lloyds sent a loss adjuster to the house to report 
and validate the claim.  Following his visit he reported to Lloyds that there was a split in one 
of the lead valleys to the front of the house  which, despite a temporary  repair, would need to 
be replaced. He also reported that some of the mortar pointing  to the chimney  was dislodged 
and missing which would allow  water to get behind it and into the house. He said the lead 
flashing required redressing  and the application of a lead mate sealant. The loss adjuster 
went on to note that the damage to the roof had occurred gradually  over a period of time and 
that the recent weather  conditions had highlighted, not caused,  the breakdown and decay to 
the lead valley and pointing. He didnt  recommend  that Lloyds  accept liability.
Internally, the loss adjuster noted  some staining to the upstairs ceilings and walls which  
looked to be recently  caused as a result  of the problems with the roof and would require 
some redecoration. The loss adjuster further noted that Mr and Mrs Ts policy  included  
additional accidental  damage cover so he offered settlement of £1,049.33 for the internal 
redecoration costs.  The loss adjuster repeated  his verbal offer to Mrs T by text. A Lloyds 
employee told Mrs T on the phone the same thing and said shed need to pay the £100 
policy excess. 
Having heard nothing for a number of weeks, Mrs T contacted Lloyds and was told a mistake 
had been made and she wasnt covered for the internal damage caused to her house. 
Mrs T complained to Lloyds about  the decision to decline  the claim and the misleading 
information shed  been given. Lloyds  looked  into the complaint and said that the external 
damage had been  correctly declined  as it hadnt been caused by a one-off event covered by 
the policy but had occurred gradually. With regard to the offer to settle her claim for the 
internal damage, Lloyds said itd made a mistake  and it should never have  been  made.  It 
offered to pay her £50 as a gesture of goodwill towards the shortcoming in its service  and 
any inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  investigation, Mrs T complained to this service.  Our investigator looked 
into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She said Lloyds hadnt  unfairly  
declined the claim  under the storm peril because  no storm conditions  were present on or 
around the date the damage was noticed.  She agreed that Lloyds had made a mistake by 
telling Mrs T it would settle her claim for internal damage but thought the £50 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN10768492Mrs T disagreed. She said the loss adjuster had made her a written offer and in reliance on 
that offer she had detrimentally  altered  her position  by paying for a decorator to redecorate. 
She said that if her claim was denied it would be fundamental  breach of the principles  of 
utmost good  faith and reasonableness. And to do so would support the contention  that offers 
from loss adjusters are ineffectual. She demanded her claim was upheld and payment 
made. 
Our investigator thought about  what Mrs T said but didnt change  her mind. She said Mrs T 
was no worse off because if Lloyds hadnt made  the mistake shed have had to pay for the 
repairs anyway. Mrs T disagreed. She said shed relied on the offer and undertook the work 
in the expectation that payment would be forthcoming. She said it was incontestable that 
Lloyds should  be bound  by the agreements made  by its loss adjuster. She asked for the 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs T, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage that is 
caused by one of the insured events/perils listed in the policy  will be covered  fire, theft, 
storm, escape of water  etc. If the damage can be shown to be the result of one of these 
perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can successfully apply one of the policy 
exclusions to defeat the claim. The only possible peril the damage to Mrs Ts home couldve 
been considered under  by Lloyds  is the storm peril. That covers policy holders for damage 
caused by one-off events of storm. 
The policy terms provide  a definition of what amounts to a storm, namely  strong winds with 
gusts of at least 55mph sometimes accompanied by rain and or hail or snow.  The policy 
says: We will take into consideration the condition of your home. A storm can highlight  
damage rather than cause it and damage  that happens gradually through  wear and tear or 
due lack of maintenance isnt covered.
Lloyds checked  the weather records for the time leading up to the damage being reported. 
There was no evidence  of storm conditions. Our investigator also checked  our weather 
record service  and found no evidence of storm conditions in the locality  of Mrs Ts home 
around the time the damage occurred. 
Without the presence of a storm there can be no storm damage. So the policy does not 
engage and the damage reported isnt covered. It follows that I dont  think Lloyds 
unreasonably declined Mrs Ts claim for damage  to her roof. Its clear from the loss 
adjusters report that the damage  identified  was of a gradual nature. Gradual damage isnt 
covered by the policy. 
Mrs T also claimed for internal damage to her walls and ceilings caused by water  getting in 
as a result  of the issues with the roof. As shed selected the policy add-on of additional  
accidental damage  to buildings cover, Lloyds was able to consider the internal damage  
against this peril. Like all the other perils in the policy, it comes with specific exclusions to 
cover. It covers  any accidental  damage to the buildings  of the home  that arent covered by 
any of the other perils  in the policy but it specifically excludes loss or damage caused by 
water entering the home unless its as result  of a storm  or a flood. 
Ref: DRN10768493As stated above, there were no storm conditions present  around  the time the damage 
occurred. So the internal  damage caused by water getting into the house cant  have been 
caused by a storm (or a flood). As it wasnt, then this damage too isnt covered by the policy  
terms. It follows that I dont think that Lloyds,  by applying the policy  terms to the damage  
claimed, has unreasonably declined Mrs Ts claim for internal damage.  
It is clear  and Lloyds admits it  that an error was made in initially  telling  Mrs T the internal 
damage was covered.  What Lloyds shouldve done  is tell Mrs T her internal damage wasnt 
covered either when  it was declining cover for the external damage. That any internal repairs  
 as they werent the result of insured damage  were Mrs Ts to finance.  But Lloyds made a 
mistake. And when  it communicated  its error to Mrs T she was left to finance the repairs 
herself. But Im unable to agree that Lloyds mistake has caused  Mrs T to rely on what it told 
her to her detriment. She is no worse off now than she wouldve been if the mistake had 
never occurred. The repairs  were always her responsibility to remedy.  
What Mrs T has suffered  is a loss of expectation. For a while,  she expected  to receive  
£1,049.33. I have no doubt that the discovery she wasnt going to was very disappointing  for 
her. But that doesnt mean  that I can make Lloyds  pay her an amount she was never  entitled  
to in the first place.  It wouldnt be fair to bind Lloyds to a mistake in circumstances where 
Mrs T was never contractually  entitled to receive the money offered and where she hadnt 
relied on the statement to her detriment. 
But Lloyds should compensate Mrs T for the shortcomings in its service  and any 
inconvenience its caused her and I can see its done so. Lloyds has offered to pay Mrs T 
compensation of £50. I think  thats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint 
and is in line with awards made by this service  in similar circumstances. Indeed  if this 
complaint had passed across my desk without any compensation offer being made by 
Lloyds then its unlikely  Id have awarded any more than £50. 
Its unclear to me if Lloyds has paid the compensation offered to Mrs T, but if it hasnt, and 
Mrs T would like to receive the payment she should contact Lloyds to arrange  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Ms H 
and Mrs S on behalf of the estate of the late Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
20 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1076849