K820x#14complaint
Mr W is complaining  about the way Barclays  Bank UK Plc have handled his flexible 
mortgage account.
background
Mr W opened a flexible  mortgage account with Barclays  (trading as Woolwich) in 2002. The 
mortgage operated  in two parts  the mortgage  account, which  was used to drawdown the 
mortgage funds  for Mr W to buy his property.  And a mortgage current account (MCA),  where 
funds become available upon  Mr W making  payments to his mortgage  account. Both 
accounts were secured  by a legal charge on Mr Ws property, and the funds owed  on both 
accounts were due to be fully repaid  in 2022.
Whilst the two accounts are linked, they each  attract  a different interest rate. Mr W had the 
choice of which type of rate to apply  for on the mortgage account.  However,  the mortgage 
current account was set to be on Woolwichs Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for the life of the 
mortgage. Mr Ws mortgage account has been on fixed interest rates  in the past, however 
the account has been on the SVR since 2009.
In 2012, Mr W began to have difficulties maintaining his monthly mortgage payments, and 
arrears started to build  up. A court  order was issued in 2016, ordering Mr W to pay £300  per 
month in addition to his contractual  monthly  payments  to clear the arrears on the account.  
Mr W cleared  the arrears on the mortgage account, but has since exceeded his overdraft 
limit on the mortgage  current account.
In 2017, Mr W complained to Barclays. He provided a lot of detail in his complaint, but in 
summary, he complained  about three  key issues:
the interest rate hes been charged on his accounts has been too high. It should have 
been lower in line with the Bank  of England  base  rate;
hes incurred unnecessary costs as a result of Barclays taking legal action when they 
didnt need to;
he used some of the funds available in the mortgage  current account to repair  an 
investment property abroad. He feels that because  of this, Barclays should take 
some responsibility for the condition of this property,  and consider this when 
attempting to recover the arrears on the mortgage current  account.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. They explained that the interest rate charged on 
Mr Ws mortgage account was a variable rate, and wasnt intended to track  the 
Bank of England  base rate. Theyd made several attempts to engage with Mr W when he 
was in financial difficulty, but arrangements continued to be broken by him. They also 
explained that they werent responsible for the way that Mr W used the funds available in the 
mortgage current account. He was free to use these funds how he wished, as long as it 
wasnt for business purposes. Both of the accounts  are secured on his property in the UK.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into things and explained 
that, in her view, Barclays had acted fairly.
Mr W disagreed  so the complaints been passed  to me to issue a decision.
Ref: DRN14449882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided a lot of detailed information about his complaint, and I want to assure him 
that Ive carefully  considered everything  hes said. Whilst I wont  be addressing  each of his 
points individually,  Ill be commenting on what I feel are the key issues of the complaint in 
this decision.
the interest rate charged on the mortgage  accounts
Mr Ws mortgage account has been  on a fixed interest rate in the past. But since March 
2009, both of his accounts have been  on Barclays standard variable rate (SVR). The SVR 
was 4.99% in 2009, and reduced to 4.79% in September  2016.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws mortgage that he agreed to when he took it 
out. These  explain that Barclays  may vary any of their rates of interest by giving prior notice, 
and they give a list of reasons for why the rate may be varied. Whilst a change in the Bank of 
England base rate is listed as one of the reasons the SVR may change, it does not say that 
the rate will follow  any changes in the base rate. 
There is no indication on any of the mortgage paperwork, or terms and conditions  that the 
SVR would track the base rate. The terms of the mortgage explain that the interest rate 
applicable is variable, and the bank set this rate. So whilst I appreciate Mr W feels the 
interest rate hes paid has been  too high and hes been overcharged, Im satisfied Barclays  
have charged interest in line with the terms or Mr Ws mortgage,  and were  entitled to do so. I 
also note that Barclays SVR is comparable to the SVR rates  of other lenders.
When the interest rate charged  on Mr Ws mortgage account changed, Barclays wrote  to him 
to tell him this  and told him what his new monthly  payment  was going to be. Whilst Mr Ws 
mortgage was on the SVR, there  was no Early  Repayment Charge  (ERC)  payable  if he 
wanted to redeem his mortgage and move to another lender. So Im satisfied there  were  no 
contractual barriers  preventing Mr W from redeeming his mortgage  early if he wanted to look 
for another  interest  rate elsewhere, or apply  for a new rate with Barclays.
I appreciate this may have been  difficult for Mr W after 2012, as his mortgage account was in 
arrears. But there was a significant amount of time before this, when Barclays  told Mr W the 
interest rate payable  on his account was the SVR in 2009, when he could have applied  for a 
lower rate if he wanted to. I cant see hes ever done this  but thats  not something I can 
hold Barclays responsible for, as this was for Mr W to apply for if he chose to.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr W feels hes been overcharged, Im not satisfied Barclays have  
acted unfairly when charging  the interest rate they have.
unnecessary legal action and costs
In 2012, Mr W contacted Barclays to explain that he was having problems with his 
investment property abroad, and as he was self-employed, he was waiting for some money 
to be paid to him. This caused arrears  to start building up on the mortgage account. Ive 
seen Barclays internal contact notes, and am satisfied that they were pro-actively attempting  
Ref: DRN14449883to engage with Mr W about his situation,  and offered to put payment arrangements  in place 
to help make  things more  manageable.
I can see that Mr W often  promised  large  payments to clear the arrears, but these never 
materialised. I understand Mr W was going through a difficult time  he was self-employed, 
having cash flow problems, and having problems with his investments. But Im satisfied that 
Barclays treated Mr W fairly during this time and were trying to help him get things back  on 
track.
Mr Ws mortgage account fell into arrears in 2012,  and Barclays  didnt proceed to legal  
action until a few years after this. Im persuaded that Mr W had enough opportunity  to review 
his situation during this time,  and make arrangements to ensure  an agreement was made 
and adhered to. Ive seen that Barclays informed  Mr W on several occasions about the 
implications of him not repaying the arrears, and from what I can see in the notes  it doesnt 
appear Mr W was treating his mortgage  payments as a priority.  Considering  all of this, Im 
not satisfied Barclays  were acting unfairly by starting legal action, as I consider they were 
doing this as a last resort to recover the money  owed on the account.
Mr Ws also unhappy that legal costs have been  added to the outstanding mortgage  
balance, and he doesnt feel he should  have to pay these. Ive considered the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ws mortgage  account,  and Im satisfied that Barclays  had the right to apply 
these charges to the mortgage.  This is common practice in the industry, and I dont consider 
it unfair. Barclays made Mr W aware of what would happen if the arrears remained  unpaid, 
and only pursued  legal  action after exhausting all other avenues.  As a result,  Im satisfied 
these charges have  been added to Mr Ws mortgage account  fairly.
investment property abroad
Mr W said he used  some of the funds available in the mortgage current account to pay for 
repairs to his investment  property abroad. Hes since had problems with this property, and 
says Barclays should take some  responsibility  for this as its their lending that funded the 
repairs.
Mr W applied  for a mortgage to buy a property in the UK. Woolwich agreed  to lend to him 
based on the UK property being used as security for the borrowing. Because of the way the 
flexible mortgage  is set up, funds  became available in the mortgage current account as 
Mr W was making  regular  repayments to his mortgage. This money  was available to Mr W to 
do what he liked with it. The use of this money was not the responsibility of Barclays.
I appreciate Mr W is now having problems with his investment,  but I cant  reasonably  say 
that Barclays should be held accountable for this. They have no link or charge on the 
property abroad  only on his property in the UK. Im sorry that Mr W is experiencing the 
problems that he is, but Im not satisfied Barclays have done anything wrong in respect of 
the way theyve operated the mortgage  current account.
I understand the mortgage current account  has fallen into arrears. I would expect both 
Barclays and Mr W to work together to address this and agree an appropriate way forward  to 
ensure the account is brought back up to date.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN14449884Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444988