K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a credit card in 2000. 
I know that Mrs B applied for her credit card with Halifax. But BOS is responsible for 
complaints like this about Halifax.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to BOS  for the rest of this 
decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  She thought  that an offer BOS had made 
to repay  some of the commission it received from Mrs Bs PPI premiums  was a fair way to 
settle this complaint. Through her representatives,  Mrs B didnt agree with that view.  So the 
matter has been  passed to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B, but I havent  upheld her complaint  about mis-sold PPI. I agree 
with our adjudicator  that a fair way to settle the complaint is for BOS to pay back some of the 
commission it got from her PPI premiums. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below. 
Mrs B told us she couldnt remember how the PPI was sold to her. BOS  told us that the 
policy was sold when  Mrs B made  a postal application for her credit  card.  I havent  seen  
anything to suggest that BOS records are wrong  on that point. I havent seen the exact  form 
that Mrs B completed when she applied for her card. Thats  not unusual given that it was 
completed around 19 years ago  I wouldnt expect either party to keep records  for that long. 
But BOS  has sent us a sample  copy of the postal application form it used for credit cards  at 
that time.   I think Mrs B would have been  able to complete that form in her own time and at 
her own pace. 
From the sample form, I can see that for PPI to be added to her account,  Mrs B had to select 
a box. As the cover was added, I think its most likely that Mrs B selected this box. The cover 
was likely to show on her statements and so I think shed have queried these payments with 
BOS if she didnt know what they were for. It is relatively clear from the application form that 
the PPI was optional. Overall, I think shed have known she had a choice about taking this 
policy out and she could have refused it if she wanted to. 
BOS didnt advise  Mrs B to take this policy out. But it did have to give her enough 
information about the cover so she could decide  for herself whether it was a good  fit for her 
needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
I dont think the information  on the application  form is clear  that Mrs B would have to pay 
interest on her premiums if she didnt repay her balance in full every  month. And I dont think 
its clear that shed have  had to keep making  payments towards  the cover  in the event that 
she made a successful claim. So the question for me now is whether Mrs B would have 
acted differently if BOS  had told her everything  it should  have  done.  To help me decide what  
Ref: DRN14637502she would  have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the cover.  And Ive also 
thought carefully  about what she told us about her personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on the PPI, 10% of Mrs Bs balance would have 
been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months. Mrs B also 
told us she had six months full pay and six months  half pay from her employer if she became 
unwell. With that in mind, I think the PPI would have  lasted  for longer than her full sick pay. 
Mrs B told us that she didnt have  any other  means  with which to make her credit card 
repayments if she was out of work.  
Mrs B appears to have  been in good health  at the time she bought this cover. So I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that PPI could have been helpful  for Mrs B if she was 
out of work. And although I appreciate  she doesnt now remember,  I think she probably 
chose to take the policy out  so it looks as though she wanted this type of cover. It follows 
that I dont  think more or better information  about the cover would have put her off taking it 
out. 
All of this means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because BOS  didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1463750