K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that First Complete Ltd repeatedly recommended  changing  her and her 
husbands life and critical illness (CIC) policies and this ended  up with her having to rebuy  a 
version of her 2015 policy but paying more for far less cover.
background
In 2017 Mrs T was diagnosed with stage 4 breast  cancer and received £25k  from her 
latest/current policy. However, she had £40k of CIC between  2015 and 2017 up to the point  
the adviser recommended a new policy. She wants First Complete to pay the additional £15k 
she says she has lost out as a result of its poor advice in 2017.  
An investigator at this service felt her complaint should be upheld.
She noted that First Complete had first recommended  and sold Mrs T a life and CIC policy in 
2013 and then persuaded her to switch to a different policy  in 2015. This provided the same  
levels of protection  - £40k of CIC and £110k  in life cover - for a marginally lower premium 
(about £1). 
But in 2017 it recommended a policy with lower cover for a higher premium.  The justification  
for this recommendation was that this Vitality Life policy  offered the potential  for the 
premiums to be reduced if Mr and Mrs T adhered to some sort of workout/fitness/healthy 
lifestyle regime, something  Mrs T was keen to do  according to the advisors  report.
Later that year Mrs T contacted the new provider to say she was suffering from psoriasis.  
This resulted in a 25% premium increase which led to Mrs T cancelling the policy.  She then 
took out a new policy  with her original provider without First Completes advice. This time the 
same premium, around £40, only provided  £25k of CIC and £70k in life cover, due to her 
increased age, the psoriasis diagnosis and potentially other changed costs. Mrs T made  a 
successful claim  under  the CIC element  of the policy recently, receiving the full £25k.
An investigator felt there  was not sufficient evidence  to justify the 2017 switch and that if 
properly advised  Mrs T would have kept the policy which provided £40k CIC cover. She 
therefore proposed  that it should put Mrs T back into the position shed now be in but for this 
inappropriate advice.  This required it to:
Refund the difference in the premium costs of the two policies and add 8% simple 
interest to each difference from the date the premium was paid
Pay the £15k  shortfall in CIC which Mrs T received when she made  a claim and add 
8% simple interest  to this sum from the date she received  it
Pay the £40k  shortfall in life cover into a third party account, to be paid out if/when 
there is a successful claim on the policy
Pay Mrs T £300 for the obvious  trouble and upset this issue  has caused, particularly 
taking into account her medical  situation
First Complete did not agree, and said:
Ref: DRN12564372Since Mrs Ts previous  review in 2015 a revolutionary new product had appeared on 
the market rewarding  customers  who regularly exercised and followed other health 
advice with discounts of up to 67% in their premiums;  there  were  also other benefits 
such as gym membership discounts
It believes that the package offered a range of unique benefits of particular appeal to 
healthy customers such as Mr and Mrs T (at the time)
Mrs T did not challenge the recommendation at the time, including  the phrase: 
Although this was not the most cost effective  Mr and Mrs T wanted to go with 
Vitality as they work out a lot and get reduced premiums the more you train and work 
out
Its appointed  rep (advisor) suffered a commission-clawback  when  Mrs T cancelled 
the 2015 policy so this, in effect,  challenges some of the investigators assumptions
Mrs T admitted that she was first diagnosed with psoriasis when she was 14. 
Therefore she should have  declared this on her 2015 application; had she done so 
the premium would likely have been  different; so the investigators  cost comparison is 
not fair
Having approached the provider  of her 2015  policy (and the one she eventually made 
a claim through), it said: 
We wouldn't be able to give a simple answer on this one. The diagnosis  of breast 
cancer would  have met the CIC definition but if it had come  to light that she had 
anxiety and psoriasis during the assessment, and there had been misrepresentation 
of these conditions,  it may have  led to a different outcome.
If these conditions predated the 2015 application  and there  were  relevant questions 
that should have been answered, we would  ask our underwriters to give a 
retrospective assessment  on what terms / cover  could  have  been  offered had these 
conditions been  disclosed
I can see Mrs T. disclosed psoriasis on the 2017  application  and a rating  was 
applied resulting in a higher premium  being paid by the customer. If this pre-dated 
the 2015 application, I would imagine the same  terms  would have  been  applied, 
although I would have to double check this with underwriting.
 Mrs T disputed many  of First Completes comments and assertions, saying:
The advisor sold them their original policies and approached  them again in 2015. As 
they were keen to reduce their premiums they agreed to his recommendation
It was he who again approached them in 2017, via social media, noting that her 
husband had started  walking  regularly
He only spoke to her husband  and recommended Vitality Life saying  there would be 
significant benefits. No other options were  discussed options  and they did not agree 
that they wanted to change their polices
This happened without her consent
Ref: DRN12564373Neither of them  received any of the so-called  benefits from these new policies and 
the advisors record that they told him they regularly worked out is completely false
Neither she nor her husband  have set foot in a gym in the 12 years  they have been 
together
Any motivation  behind change of polices  was to reduce monthly  premiums  as 
finances have  remained tight throughout
In 2015 they just signed forms that had been filled in for them. In 2017 they did not 
complete application  forms for Vitality Life policies. She did not know the policy had 
been applied  for until the application forms were posted  through  the door for her to 
sign along with a letter from their provider stating  they had received notification that 
she wished to cancel  her existing policy (from  First Completes advisor)
He did not ask any medical questions prior to filling in the Vitality Life policy.  She 
proactively contacted  Vitality in August 2017 as she noticed  that the application form 
did not state that she had psoriasis. This had obviously been filled out by the advisor  
from her previous polices
Psoriasis is a condition that comes and goes;  this particular  time she suffered from it 
quite badly
In short  she did not authorise or request any change in policy or any reduction in 
critical illness and life insurance cover
The advisor recently admitted to her and her husband that he had been too hasty in 
his actions
Paragraph 5 states that a protection  review meeting took place  this is untrue
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive initially considered whether the 2017  advice was suitable and appropriate and then 
whether Mrs T was put in a fully informed position to choose  to cancel her existing policy in 
order to take out this replacement.
Firstly, I think its important to reiterate that the replacement policy offered 25% less critical 
illness cover.  So, in my view, there  needed  to be clear and very significant advantages to 
losing some much cover, particularly when the resulting premium was higher.  Ive seen no 
such evidence.
Further, the cost of the premiums on this replacement would rise by 2% a year throughout 
the 18 year term. This meant that it would become ever-more expensive compared to her 
existing policy. The advisors  recommendations letter makes  no mention of this. This alone, 
in my view,  renders the letter seriously  misleading  and made  it impossible for Mrs T to fully 
assess the potential  appeal of this policy. 
  
Ref: DRN12564374Secondly, Mrs T raised a number of disturbing  allegations about  this sale and the advisors 
alleged actions. I dont  feel it is necessary  to investigate, and take a view on the merits of all 
these in order to reach  a fair and reasonable decision about  this case. But I think  several  
points seem to me more  than plausible. 
According to First Complete its advisor contacted Mrs T on 8 May 2017 and that she and her 
husband had a meeting  to discuss their existing  cover. His subsequently letter clearly  states 
that this meeting was with both Mr T and Mrs T. Ive seen no evidence  to support this and 
Mrs Ts evidence is clear:  that he had no contact  with her whatsoever.  I am not persuaded 
that he did meet Mrs T. I also think  First Completes  claim that they told the advisor that they 
worked out a lot seems unlikely to be accurate given Mrs Ts specific evidence  about this 
issue, which I found convincing and persuasive.
Further, there is no evidence to indicate that the advisor fully explained the potential cost 
savings of this new product  to Mr T, let alone  Mrs T, such that either of them could assess 
the chances of them  ending up paying a lower premium if they met the applicable exercise  
and healthy lifestyle  targets. 
So while First Complete  claims Mr and Mrs T could have enjoyed  a very considerable 
reduction in their premiums, neither it nor the advisor has supplied any evidence to support 
this, including  for example  an outline of what precise targets Mr and Mrs T would have had 
to meet  to acquire  specific  discounts. Nor has it supplied evidence  that they were presented 
with this information and agreed that these  targets  were something they wished to aim for, 
thereby agreeing to lower cover  for a higher price  in the first place..
I have then considered  Mrs Ts providers  comments about the potential  impact if she had 
declared that shed  been  diagnosed  with psoriasis  as a teenager on the 2015 application 
form; whether this might have led to a medical  weighting.
Firstly, in my view the providers initial sentence  is key i.e. it admits  it cannot say for sure 
how it would  have dealt  with any subsequent claim.  It then offers various qualifications  such 
as if there  were relevant questions that should have been answered. So, unlike First 
Complete, it does not state that Mrs T ought to have declared the condition under  the 
general disclosure clause if she had not visited a doctor or taken medication for the condition 
in the previous five years.  There is, as I understand it, no specific question about  conditions 
such as psoriasis on the 2015 form.
Further, I dont accept  First Completes assertion that a 2015 disclosure would necessarily 
have led to a premium weighting. In fact, other  providers guidance raises doubts  about this, 
some saying that there could/would be no weighting if any symptoms  were mild and/or the 
client was not using medication.
So while the provider did offer Mrs T less CIC cover for her £40 monthly premium in 2017 
when she declared  her psoriasis  it has not been established if this was due to her  by that 
stage  having had a severe bout of symptoms/taking medication. Nor has it been 
established how much  the increased  premium/reduced cover  was due to Mrs Ts increased 
age, changed/higher  mortality charges or higher fees.
So, in my view, it is far from clear  whether Mrs T ought to have declared her psoriasis in 
2015, whether  the provider would have asked  her to pay more, how much this might  have 
been and  if the cost was marginal  whether she would have agreed to pay a slightly 
higher premium to retain the level of CIC she already had..
Ref: DRN12564375There is also a further consideration, crucial to the issue of what would have happened if 
Mrs T had kept her 2015 policy, and without having made a psoriasis declaration, and then 
made her claim. Would the provider in assessing her breast cancer claim have undertaken 
sufficient investigations  for the psoriasis  issue to have come to light? 
Given that insurers are not permitted  to go on fishing expeditions when assessing a claim I 
think it is unlikely, on the balance of probabilities, that the issue  of Mrs Ts psoriasis would  
have arisen.
Therefore even if she ought  to have declared it back in 2015 I think  it is more likely than not 
the provider would have paid her claim in full, taking account of all the above factors  i.e. it 
would have limited  its enquiry  into the qualifying nature of her breast  cancer diagnosis. 
As such,  First Complete is responsible for the additional amount which Mrs T would, on the 
balance of probabilities, have received if she had not cancelled  her 2015  policy.  I also agree 
with the investigator  about the rest of the proposed compensation.
First Complete must therefore:
Refund the difference in the premium costs of the two policies and add 8% simple 
interest to each difference from the date the premium was paid
Pay the £15k  shortfall in CIC which Mrs T received and add 8% simple  interest  to this 
sum from the date she received  it
Pay the £40k  shortfall in life cover into a third party account, to be paid out if/when 
there is a successful claim on the policy. I have set this out in detail below
Pay Mrs T £300 for the obvious  trouble and upset this issue  has caused, particularly 
taking into account her medical  situation
How and why First Complete must  pay 40k into an independent, third party account:
It is impossible  to be certain whether First Complete will still be trading till the end date of 
Mrs Ts 2015  policy i.e. for the entire time this additional £40k  in life cover  would  have been  
guaranteed. Therefore, in order  to guarantee that this sum would be available to be paid out 
in the event of Mrs T dying during  this period I believe that paying this sum into an escrow 
account or similar custody arrangement is the best/most practical means of ensuring this 
outcome. 
This would mean an independent third party held the money and paid Mrs Ts beneficiaries 
if/when she dies during the 2015 cover period. If this does not happen by the end of the 
2015 policys projected duration, and theres no outstanding claim, then the money  should  
be returned by the third party to First Complete.
It is for First Complete  to pay all costs  involved  in setting  up and administering the escrow 
account or similar arrangement. Im not recommending a particular third party  to run the 
escrow account or similar arrangement, but clearly  that party needs to be entirely  
independent from First Complete and Mrs T. Preliminary searches show  there are a number 
of companies offering  escrow accounts  in the UK and that at least some of these are 
registered with the Financial Conduct  Authority. I think the third party used should  be 
appropriately authorised to provide security  for both parties.
Ref: DRN12564376For this type of arrangement to work effectively, it will be helpful to obtain  assistance from 
the provider to assess a hypothetical  future  claim and confirm  whether it would have  been  
paid if the 2015 policy was still in place and what proportion of the sum assured would have 
been due. 
This is the best solution I can think of that will mean Mrs T and her beneficiaries arent  
disadvantaged. As a result I think it represents  a fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  First Complete Ltd to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1256437