K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Paymentshield Ltd sent their renewal documents  for 
their home and buildings  insurance policy to the wrong address. 
background
Mr and Mrs M moved house in 2012.  They said they wrote  to Paymentshield and other  
businesses at the time. They  said Paymentshield  acknowledged their change  of address. 
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs M contacted  Paymentshield. They were unhappy with the 
premium they were paying  and cancelled the policy.  They complained  as they discovered 
that Paymentshield had sent renewal letters to their previous address. 
Paymentshield told Mr and Mrs M it didntt have a record of them notifying a change  of 
address. But it had insured the correct  address  since  theyd moved to in 2012.
Mr and Mrs M asked  us to look at their complaint. They  said they werent  sure that the 
correct address had been insured since 2012.  They were upset and worried that a third party 
had received their renewal documents each year. They wanted a refund of the premium  
theyd paid and a full investigation into Paymentshields  error.
Paymentshield told our investigator the address had been updated by way of a quote by 
Mr and Mrs M. This wasnt clear. Our investigator  thought on balance that Paymentshield  
had received Mr and Mrs Ms letter telling it theyd changed address in 2012. Paymentshield 
provided a screenshot showing the correct  insured  address  since  May 2012, but not the 
correspondence address. 
Due to the length of time that had passed,  Paymentshield could only provide a copy of the 
renewal letters and correspondence it had sent out since 2014.  The investigator  was 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms new address had been  insured since 2012.
She could  see that Paymentshield had sent the renewal letters  to the wrong address  due 
to its error in not updating the correspondence  address. But  she didnt think that 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  done anything differently. This is because Mr and Mrs M told us 
that for personal  reasons  they hadnt kept on top of all correspondence and allowed Direct 
Debit payments to continue unchecked for six years. The investigator  thought  Paymentshield 
had correctly renewed their policy under the automatic renewal agreement.
She explained that we dont decide whether a business has breached data protection  laws 
as this is the role of the Information Commissioners Office. But she pointed out that the 
renewal letters were  addressed to Mr and Mrs M and not to a third party. 
So the investigator didnt recommend any compensation award for Mr and Mrs M and she 
didnt feel this was needed. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. Theyre unhappy that weve  based  our view on an internal 
document (the screenshot)  provided  by Paymentshield which  they believe could be 
amended.
They said that not knowing whether their property had been adequately insured caused  
them serious worry, loss of sleep and ill health. Discovering Paymentshield had sent 
Ref: DRN12885342correspondence to a third party has caused  them  concern. And they believe Paymentshield 
should compensate  them  for the distress  their poor service has caused them   along with 
financial loss. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paymentshield is the administrator of Mr and Mrs Ms home insurance. The policy is 
underwritten by another business, and it remains open to Mr and Mrs M to bring a complaint 
against that business about the cost of their insurance premiums if they wish.
I understand Mr M feels the screenshot from Paymentshields internal system means it could 
be amended. So he doesnt believe we should rely on it. But Im satisfied that it supports 
their complaint that he told Paymentshield theyd moved house in 2012. 
I think Paymentshield failed to properly update its records with both the correspondence 
address and insured address in 2012. And this means that when it sent its renewal letters  to 
Mr and Mrs M, they were sent to their previous address. As the investigator explained, I cant  
make a finding as to whether Paymentshield  breached data protection laws.  
When Mr M contacted Paymentshield  in August  2018 it told him it had insured the correct  
property since 2012. And when  it replied to their complaint, Paymentshield confirmed this in 
writing in September 2018. So I dont think it could have done anymore to reassure 
Mr and Mrs M that the correct address was insured.  
However, Paymentshield wrote to Mr and Mrs M in September 2018 and said it had no 
record of Mr and Mrs M contacting it to change  address. So it didnt uphold their complaint.   
But from the information provided, I dont  think thats correct. Paymentshield told us that its 
correspondence only goes back five years. Mr M told us he received an acknowledgement  
from Paymentshield at the time of the change of address. But due to the length of time thats 
passed, he no longer holds  a copy.  On balance, I believe Mr M. I think Paymentshield did 
receive notice of their change of address in 2012.
Paymentshield has provided a copy of the renewal letters it sent since  2014 which we have 
forwarded to Mr and Mrs M. The letters show the insured address as the one Mr and Mrs M 
moved to in 2012. 
I think Paymentshield failed to send the renewal letters to the correct address for 
Mr and Mrs M. And I think  it should  have upheld  their complaint as I think it did receive 
notice from Mr and Mrs M of a change of address. 
However, Mr M told us that for personal reasons they hadnt kept on top of all 
correspondence and allowed Direct Debit payments to continue. It wasnt until August 2018 
they noticed they were paying  what he says was a higher premium for home insurance. So 
he contacted Paymentshield to cancel  the policy. It was then that they discovered 
Paymentshield had sent renewal letters to their previous address. So based  on what  Mr and 
Ref: DRN12885343Mrs M told us, I cant safely  conclude  that they would have acted differently had they 
received the renewal letters  from Paymentshield. Theres  no suggestion that they suffered a 
financial loss by being dually insured and paid for home insurance twice. 
Our role is to put people back in the position they would  have  been  in had a business  not 
made an error. Although I think Paymentshield  made an error,  there  isnt enough to show  me 
that the error  caused Mr and Mrs M financial loss. And when Mr M contacted Paymentshield 
in August 2018, it told him the correct address was insured. So for these reasons, I dont 
think Paymentshield should have to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation for the error. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1288534