K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  refused  him account access then later sold 
a debt he was unaware of.
background
Mr M says he asked  Nationwide  in April 2017  for his account balance  as his online account  
access was blocked.  He says he was told he would  receive that information but didnt. Mr M 
says he believed his account balance was about £80 overdrawn and so paid that amount 
into his account  but that money  wasnt credited to his account.
Mr M says he found out in 2019 that Nationwide had passed his debt on to a third party 
company and so complained to Nationwide about what happened. He says he didnt receive 
a reply and says a default has been  registered  on his credit file which is unfair.  Mr M would 
like compensation  for whats happened and for his credit file to be amended and says he 
thinks there has been a cover up by Nationwide.
Nationwide says it sent numerous letters to Mr M about his overdraft and tried to call him 
without success.  It says Mr Ms account  was overdrawn and that it registered the default in 
August 2017 when  it didnt receive any communication from him. Nationwide  says Mr M 
would have been able to access his statements  online  or could have used telephone 
banking or attend  a branch to find out the account balance.
Mr M had brought  his complaint  to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The investigator 
thought Mr Ms overdraft was more  than £80 in any event and that it was up to him to 
manage his account  and settle his debt.  The investigator thought  Nationwide had sent 11 
letters and made numerous calls to Mr M but without response.  The investigator didnt think  
Nationwide made  a mistake or acted unfairly  by registering the default or that there was any 
evidence of a cover up as Mr M suggests.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says his account was blocked  for potentially 
months and says the online  account logs will show that. He says Nationwide refused to give 
him the account  balance and didnt receive a single letter or call. He also questions  what 
steps he could  have taken if Nationwide had blocked  his online access  and in branch and 
says Nationwide  has fabricated the letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
I have looked  at Mr Ms account statements  from 2016  to 2017 and can see that in April 
2017 the account was overdrawn  by nearly £250 with a further transaction  taking place in 
May 2017. So whilst I appreciate  that Mr M says he thought  the overdraft was about  £80 and 
paid in that amount, I dont think that payment  would have been enough to clear  the 
overdraft and prevent  interest and charges. I also would have expected  Mr M to have 
provided evidence  of that payment or to have  traced  where it went if it was made  from a 
different bank. But in any event I dont think it matters as it wouldnt have cleared the 
balance. And I would have expected Mr M to have  been aware of the recurring payments 
Ref: DRN11431792from the account which would have meant the overdraft  would increase unless he cancelled 
them.
I appreciate Mr M says he was unable  to access his account and that Nationwide  didnt tell 
him the account  balance. But I dont think Mr M has explained why he thought the balance 
had been cleared and I also think it was his responsibility to manage  his own account. I 
would have expected Mr M to have attended a Nationwide branch if he had account access 
problems or to have  followed  up the calls he says he made in April 2017.  And for the 
reasons I have explained, I think he ought to have been aware  of the account  position and 
that simply making an estimated payment would not have  prevented  further charges.
Im satisfied that Nationwide wrote  to Mr M on numerous occasions about the overdraft 
during 2017 as well as made a number  of telephone calls to him . I appreciate Mr M says he 
didnt receive any of those  letters. But I cant fairly hold Nationwide  responsible for that as its 
not responsible  for the safe delivery  of mail and I can see each letter  has the date it was 
produced and sent on it. In those circumstances I dont think  it likely those letters were 
fabricated after the event as Mr M believes.
As Im satisfied Mr M didnt repay  the overdraft I dont think  Nationwide  made a mistake  or 
acted unfairly by registering a default  on the account in August 2017. Im satisfied banks  and 
building societies have  a duty to accurately  report the position of their customers accounts  
to the Credit Reference  Agencies and I find Nationwide did that. So I cant  fairly ask 
Nationwide to remove that information  from Mr Ms credit file in those circumstances. I 
appreciate Mr M question what steps  he could have taken to avoid that if Nationwide  had 
blocked his account. But I think the default was registered some months after Mr M says he 
spoke to Nationwide which  I think would have given him some five months to attend  a 
branch or contact  Nationwide  again about repaying  his overdraft.
I dont think it matters  what  Nationwide online access logs show about  any blocks  placed on 
Mr Ms account. Nationwide has said Mr M would have been  able to view his account  
statements even if any blocks had been placed  on the account. And for the reasons  I have  
explained I think Mr M ought to have  realised his account was overdrawn and could have 
attended a branch to either  repay it or ask for account statements if there was online access 
problems. I cant see that Mr M made  any attempt  to speak  to Nationwide until he was 
contacted by the third party company collecting the debt.
Overall Im satisfied this was Mr Ms debt and that it was his responsibility  to repay it and 
manage his account.  I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or made a mistake here and so I 
cant fairly ask it to pay Mr M the compensation he would  like or to remove  any adverse data 
on his credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1143179