K821x#15complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mrs S on behalf of her husband, the late Mr S, and herself.  
In the hope that Mrs S wont mind,  I will refer to the late Mr S as Mr S throughout this 
decision.
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her and Mr S a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy called Mortgage Payments Protector with their 
mortgage in 1999. The policy was taken  out in both their names  and they paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs S and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs S aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. Mr and 
Mrs S say they were  told they had to have the policy to secure the borrowing. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs S have much  paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale. So I have  to decide what I think  is likely to have happened,  given 
the information I do have, what Mr and Mrs S have told us and the broader circumstances.
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss PPI application form. On this form there  is a 
section for the PPI which asks applicants a number  of questions  and to enter  an amount 
they would  like to be covered for if they wish to take out the policy.  On Mr and Mrs Ss form 
£250 has been entered. I think this suggests  that a discussion  took place between  Mr and 
Mrs S and Halifax about PPI and they chose the benefit amount that best suited their 
circumstances at the time. There is nothing to suggest the policy is compulsory and based 
on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs S they had a choice  
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs S. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the policy  was right for them.  
Ref: DRN12356902Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Neither of them was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mrs S says both she and Mr S had sick pay benefits from their employers. But the policy 
wouldve paid out alongside these benefits  as well as covering them  if either of them lost 
their job. Mrs S has mentioned they also had savings but having the PPI wouldve meant 
their savings could  have been  used  to pay for other  essential costs.  So it seems they had a 
need for the policy.  Mr and Mrs S were borrowing funds against  a large and long term 
financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security  that 
their mortgage repayments would be made if either of them was unable to work would have 
been important  to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But Mr and Mrs S chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking  out the cover.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Halifax does not have to pay back  all the costs  of the 
PPI to Mrs S. 
But Halifax  does have  to pay to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award  any 
further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1235690