K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about Tradex Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his motor  
trader insurance policy.
Reference to Tradex includes their agents.
background
Mr A has had his motor trader insurance  policy with Tradex since November 2016 which  he 
took out through a broker. His policy covered multiple cars at any given time in connection  
with his business.
Three different cars were involved in accidents on different  dates all of which  Tradex  
recorded against Mr As policy. The accidents  happened on: 25 July 2017; 
14 September 2018; and 17 November 2018. The accidents caused Mr As November 2017 
and November 2018 premiums to increase.
Mr A said that he had sold the cars involved in the July 2017  and September 2018 accidents  
before those accidents happened, so he wasnt responsible. As for the car involved in the 
November 2018  accident, Mr A said that car had nothing to do with him and it must have 
either been added to his policy by Tradexs error or someone added  it without  his 
permission.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into it. He 
concluded that Mr A had sold the car involved in the July 2017 accident  several  months 
earlier and that his broker had informed Tradex.  But due to Tradexs error the car remained 
on Mr As policy  when  it was involved in a fault accident which  Tradex recorded against 
Mr As policy. Our investigator  proposed  that Tradex should amend all internal and external 
records to remove the July 2017 accident from Mr As record completely. Tradex  agreed.
In relation to the September 2018  accident,  Mr A sold that car the same  day as the accident  
but before  the accident happened.  Our investigator  said the new owner  of the car and their 
insurer should therefore be responsible for the accident and not Mr A. Tradex  agreed. 
Tradex also paid Mr A £200 compensation in relation  to this aspect of his complaint which  
our investigator felt was reasonable.  Tradex also agreed with our investigator to amend all 
internal and external records to remove the accident  from Mr As record.
In relation to the third accident that happened in November 2018,  someone other than Mr A 
was driving at the time of the accident.  And while the car was insured on Mr As policy  it 
wasnt owned by him. And because the policy only covered cars owned  by Mr A, Tradex 
settled the other drivers claim but said they would recover their outlay (the amount they paid 
to settle the claim)  from Mr A. Mr A said that was unfair because he didnt know  how that car 
came to be insured  on his policy and he said it must  have been Tradexs  mistake.  Our 
investigator said there was no evidence to suggest  Tradex had made  a mistake and that Mr 
A was responsible  for the car being  added to his policy. Our investigator  therefore concluded 
that Tradex were within their rights to pay the other drivers claim and to then claim that from 
Mr A.
Finally, our investigator suggested  that once Tradex amend the records  by removing the 
July 2017 and September 2018 accidents  from Mr As record. He recommended that Tradex 
should recalculate his premiums  for the November 2017 and November 2018 policy years.  
Ref: DRN13997412He added that provided Mr A had no other open or fault claims during those policy  years  
Tradex should reinstate  his no claims bonus (NCB) and refund any sums due to Mr A. Our 
investigator also said Tradex should send Mr A a letter confirming the above.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Tradex to take into account the November  2018  
accident when  calculating Mr As November 2019  premium because Tradex  were 
reasonable in recording  that against  his policy.
Tradex agreed with all of our investigators proposals. Mr A agreed with everything except 
our investigators views on the November 2018 accident. As a result the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for the 
same reasons as given  by our investigator. Given that both parties have accepted  our 
investigators proposals in relation to the July 2017  and September  2018 accidents,  I will 
only consider the outstanding matter of the November 2018 accident.
The car involved in the accident in November 2018  was insured under Mr As policy. Tradex 
have said Mr A is the only person who has access to the MID [Motor Insurers Database]  
system and it is only him or his broker who can add and remove  vehicles from this 
system/his motor trade  policy. 
Tradex instructed an investigator  to look into the accident. The investigator interviewed  Mr A 
and took a statement from him. Mr A denied knowledge of the car and couldnt  explain how it 
came to be insured  on his policy. But Mr A told the investigator that he was the only person 
who could add cars to his policy. And Mr A hasn't  shown me any evidence that the broker or 
anyone else incorrectly added the car at issue to his policy.  So Im satisfied that Mr A himself 
added the car to the policy. The driver of the car at the time wasnt  covered to drive  which  is 
why Tradex said they would deal with the other  drivers claim and then claim their costs from 
Mr A.
Ive not come across  any evidence to satisfy me that Tradex have done anything wrong. Im 
therefore not upholding this aspect  of Mr As complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Tradex Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Remove the July 2017 and September 2018  accidents from Mr As policy  and all 
internal and external records.
Reinstate Mr As NCB for the policy years November 2017 and November 2018, 
provided there were  no other open  or fault claims.
Recalculate Mr As premiums for the policy years November 2017,  November  2018,  
and if he renewed  with Tradex the following  year, November 2019 on the basis  that 
he didnt have the July 2017  and September 2018  claims on his record. If refunds are 
due they should be paid to Mr A as soon  as possible.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept
Ref: DRN13997413or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1399741