K821x#15complaint
The daughters of the late Mr W complain on behalf  of his estate that Nationwide  Building  
Society increased his credit card limit when  he could not afford it.
background
Mr W had a credit card and a current account with Nationwide. Between May 2013 and April 
2015, the credit limit on his credit card was increased four times, starting at £4,500 and 
ending at £13,300. His daughters discovered  this in August 2018, shortly  before his death, 
and they complained to Nationwide (representing his estate) that Nationwide had lent to him 
irresponsibly. They pointed out that Mr W had mostly only been  making  minimum payments; 
Nationwide had sent him letters about late payments, and letters  offering him help if he was 
struggling to pay; he hadnt paid his balance in nearly a decade; his payments didnt even 
cover the interest;  and he was trapped in a cycle of debt, and struggling to pay essential  
bills. They also complained about poor customer service.
Nationwide paid £50 for the customer service issues, but otherwise it did not accept  that it 
had done anything wrong. It said Mr W had asked for the limit increases. It said that Mr W 
had been managing his account well, and that Nationwide hadnt known he was in financial 
difficulty until it was told by his son in law in August 2018. It had then agreed a repayment 
plan with him.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that Mr Ws current  account  statements and 
contact notes showed that he had been  struggling  financially,  and that he had been on a 
reducing overdraft limit from 2012 to 2015. So Nationwide had been aware of Mr Ws 
difficulties, or should have  been.  She said Nationwide had offered the limit increases to 
Mr W (who had then accepted them); he hadnt asked for them proactively. She thought  
Nationwide had been wrong  to offer more credit to Mr W in light of what  it knew about his 
situation. So she recommended that Nationwide refund all interest and charges incurred 
since the first limit increase. She thought  that £50 was fair compensation for the other 
issues.
Nationwide said that each increase had been in line with its lending  policy  at the time, and it 
had carried out credit scoring and considered other  information, but it had not considered the 
plan on his current account. Mr W had told Nationwide  that he could afford  the increases, 
and it had been his choice  to accept them and to make use of the higher limits. It asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also considered the UK Cards 
Associations guidelines, Credit Card  Limit  Increases, dated 1 January 2011, which  reflect 
common industry practices.
Mr Ws credit limit began  at £4,500,  and was increased four times, as set out below.
Date New limit Amount of increase
9 May 2013 £6,300 £1,800
12 December 2013 £8,550 £2,250
8 June 2014 £11,050 £2,500
Ref: DRN1292481210 April 2015 £13,300 £2,050
Mr W didnt ask for the increases, he was offered them. I agree that it was still his choice  to 
accept them,  and to increase his spending within the new limits once  he had them.  I accept 
that customers have  a duty to manage their own finances sensibly, and to try not to 
overspend. But that does  not get Nationwide off the hook:  it still had a duty to lend 
responsibly, and to assess Mr Ws ability  to repay  and his overall creditworthiness.
I do not accept that Nationwide  didnt  know that Mr W was in financial difficulty  until his 
family told it in 2018. As our adjudicator said, his current account was overdrawn  and he was 
on a reducing overdraft plan throughout the whole period during which  the limit increases 
occurred. 
On page 3 of the guidelines it says unsolicited  credit limit increases should not be offered  
where an agreed repayment  plan is in place.  I think that a reducing  overdraft  limit counts, 
and that its existence ought to have disqualified  Mr W from receiving such  offers.  Nationwide  
told our adjudicator that at the time,  the repayment  plan on the current  account wouldn't  
have been taken into consideration,  as if that is an excuse, but it isnt. It should have been 
taken into consideration. Nationwides email  is an admission  that the guidelines were not 
followed.
I could just stop here. But I am reinforced  in my decision by the following matters. Firstly, the 
collections notes for the current  account  show that in a phone call on 29 January 2013,  Mr W 
told Nationwide that he was worried about  his debts, and was going to seek advice from the 
Citizens Advice Bureau. So Nationwide was on actual notice that he was in financial 
difficulty, it wasnt just a matter of inferring it from the repayment  plan.  That was before the 
first limit increase. Then on 22 November 2013,  shortly before the second increase, Mr W 
told Nationwide that he couldnt afford to reduce his overdraft by £60 a month, and asked if 
he could reduce it by £30 a month  instead. So I dont think it was reasonable to offer him 
these credit limit increases.
(I could also mention  that Mr W occasionally  exceeded his overdraft limit, but I think these 
instances were too trivial to have mattered, and I have not held them  against  Nationwide.)
Secondly, Mr W mainly just made minimum payments. That, on its own,  is not necessarily a 
reason not to offer a credit limit increase,  but it was not the only warning indicator. I also find 
it surprising that one of the letters Nationwide sent Mr W about the fact that he had only 
been making minimum payments for a long while was sent on the same  day that it offered 
him the third limit increase  (2 June  2014).
For all of the above reasons, I will uphold this complaint. I agree with the adjudicators 
proposed redress.
I have no power to award Mr Ws daughters compensation for any inconvenience or distress  
they experienced as a result of the customer service  failings for which  Nationwide paid them  
£50, nor can I comment on whether  that payment is fair compensation or not. This is 
because they are not eligible complainants in their own right, but only representatives of their 
fathers estate, effectively bringing  a complaint on his behalf. They were not the holders of 
his credit card account, and in matters such as this my jurisdiction (under rules made by the 
regulator) is confined to complaints brought by or on behalf  of account holders about  their 
own accounts. So I trust that they will understand if I make no findings about that part of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN12924813my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide  Building Society to refund 
all interest and charges  incurred on Mr Ws credit card account since 9 May 2013.  (This 
does not include  the £206.97 of interest which  was charged on 28 August 2018  and which  
has already been  refunded, as mentioned in Nationwides final response letter).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of Mr Ws estate to accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1292481