K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Scottish  Widows  Limited  hasnt sent them annul review letters since  
2011. Their mortgage endowment policy is maturing in 2020  with a predicted  shortfall  and 
they have been left with very little time to take any action about this. 
background
I understand Mr and Mrs H are relying on their endowment policy  to repay their mortgage.  
Between 2000 and 2011 Mr and Mrs H were sent reviews illustrating what  their policy was 
projected to achieve  on maturity. These  reviews have been combinations of amber and 
red reviews. Amber reviews warn  of a significant  risk of a shortfall and red reviews  of a high 
risk of a shortfall against the target  amount at maturity. Mr and Mrs H were also provided a 
final date to complain  by of 22 August 2006.
Mr and Mrs H complained  about the sale of the policy in 2011,  via a claims management 
company. Scottish  Widows didnt look into the complaint as it was made out of time from the 
high risk warning letters  issued. A short  time later another red warning letter  was sent to 
them, projecting a shortfall against the target amount at all three rates  of growth.  
In 2019 Scottish  Widows wrote to Mr and Mrs H to apologise for not sending  out annual 
reviews for some time. It provided an up to date value of the policy at the time. Mr and Mrs H 
werent happy as they say they havent  been  left with sufficient time to cover the shortfall of 
about £4,000. Scottish  Widows agreed that it done something wrong but didnt think it was 
responsible for covering their shortfall  this was because Mr and Mrs H had been  sent 
numerous reviews leading up to and including  2011  but didnt take any action. It did 
however, offer £150  compensation.
Our investigator concluded Scottish Widows had fairly resolved the complaint. She found 
that Mr and Mrs H were  already aware of the possible shortfall on maturity  given the earlier 
reviews and complaint.  So she didnt think Scottish  Widows need do anything  further. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree.  They consider this situation  unfair and they arent to blame for the 
situation they find themselves in  they assumed the policy  was on target as they didnt hear 
otherwise. They believe Scottish Widows is responsible for covering the shortfall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find Scottish Widows 
has fairly resolved  this complaint.  I explain  why below.  
It isnt in dispute that Scottish Widows didnt provide Mr and Mrs H with regular review letters 
as it ought to have  done.  So I dont need to make any findings about  that  my consideration 
is whether or not it has done enough  to put this matter right. 
I understand Mr and Mrs H are now in a difficult position as they are only a year away  from 
their policy maturing and they have a potential shortfall of around £4,000. I fully accept a 
year isnt a long time in which to take action with regard to any shortfall. But I can only ask 
Scottish Widows  to step in if I find that Mr and Mrs H were likely to take action themselves 
and that they had taken  steps to mitigate any potential financial loss. 
Ref: DRN13048672The review  programme was implemented by the regulator to ensure that endowment policy  
holders were  aware of the potential risk of a shortfall on maturity.  This was following a 
sustained period of low investment returns. The letters were designed to prompt  customers  
into taking action to ensure  they could repay any mortgage the policy  was associated  with. 
Action could include  such things as changing the mortgage to a repayment basis, building up 
savings and others. 
Mr and Mrs H were sent an amber letter  in 2000,  a red letter in 2003 followed by amber 
letters in 2005,  2006 and 2007. All letters from 2008   2011 were  red letters.  Im satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs H were  aware, from the content of the letters,  of the likelihood of a shortfall  
at maturity. Indeed,  I note that they went so far as to complain about  the sale of the policy  in 
2011, although they were too late to do so. Despite this and being sent a further red letter, 
Im not aware of them  taking any action to cover  the shortfall. I find it hard to accept that they 
would have taken  steps in later years, had the letters been sent, particularly as it would have 
been more costly to take action because they were nearer maturity.  Im also mindful the 
letters contained the same or similar information  and so nothing that would have prompted 
them to act differently  than to the earlier warnings.  
As mentioned above, the purpose of the review letters was to prompt policy holders into 
taking action to repay  their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H have known of the high risk of them  
having a shortfall  on maturity for a number  of years. I have  considered their argument  they 
believed the policy on track as they didnt receive updates  but I dont find this persuasive. 
Between 2000 - 2011 they were never sent a review that indicated the policy  would reach 
the target  amount at maturity. And I can see no plausible reason to think that would  change.
I also need to take into account  there  is a legal principle of mitigation, which  requires people  
to take steps to minimise  or avoid injury or losses. That means when Mr and Mrs H became 
aware of the high risk of a shortfall, and therefore aware of potential  financial losses,  they 
had a duty to mitigate those losses. But as found  above, Im not aware of them having taken 
any steps in relation to the projected shortfall.  So they havent mitigated against  those 
potential losses.
Overall, having considered the matter carefully and whilst acknowledging Scottish Widows 
didnt send reviews  when it ought  to have done, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to require  it to cover Mr and Mrs Hs potential losses. It follows that Im satisfied 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair resolution to this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1304867