K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) applied to his current  account  
which contributed  to his financial difficulties.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional findings by way of a provisional  
decision  a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final decision.  
I said that I that I didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld and I didnt think Lloyds needed  
to refund Mr M the charges and fees theyd  applied.  
I explained I took that view because I was satisfied from what Id seen that Lloyds  had done  
enough to check  Mr Ms overdraft was affordable. I also thought that when Mr M made 
Lloyds aware he was in financial difficulty,  theyd taken reasonable steps to help him. So I 
was satisfied that Lloyds had treated Mr M fairly. 
 
I invited Mr M and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information  they wanted  me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  Neither  party responded to my provisional decision 
to say whether  or not they accepted my provisional decision. They also havent  told me they 
have anything more  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither parties  have responded  to say they accept or reject my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion.  
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17438892copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  applied to his current account which  
contributed to his financial  difficulties.
background
In January 2018 Mr M contacted Lloyds  to ask them to refund all the charges hed paid on his current  
account since  2012 as he was in financial  difficulty.  The charges related to Mr Ms monthly account 
fees, unpaid direct debits and overdraft charges. Mr M felt that Lloyds shouldve  been aware  he was 
experiencing financial difficulties and done more to help him. He said he wanted a refund of all 
interest and charges that had been  applied  to his account, as he said theyd increased his financial 
difficulty. Mr M also felt Lloyds  hadnt complied with the lending code.
Lloyds said that the fees and charges had been applied  to Mr Ms account correctly - based on their 
account terms and conditions. They also said that bank charges  were  the subject  of court 
proceedings, which concluded with the Supreme  Courts decision in late 2009.  The Supreme Court 
ruling said that this type of charge couldnt be assessed for fairness  and the level of charges wasnt 
enough to be considered  unfair.  They also felt the fees and charges  were  clear  and transparent, and 
as they were debited two months  after the overdraft had been used, it gave Mr M enough  time to 
budget for them.
Mr M didnt agree as he felt Lloyds hadnt treated him fairly or reasonably. So he asked this service to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds  had done  enough to help Mr M. She said that theyd previously  
refunded some charges and offered to review  his financial situation. So she felt theyd treated him 
fairly and didnt recommend that the complaint  be upheld. 
Mr M didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr M said he feels Lloyds havent treated him fairly  in accordance with the lending code  and Banking 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook as he was in financial  difficulty when the charges were applied. Ive 
looked at Mr Ms account  statements and I can see that the charges  have been applied in line with the 
account terms and conditions. As the charges have been correctly applied,  I havent found immediate  
grounds to tell Lloyds to refund them. 
However, if Lloyds were aware  Mr M was in financial  difficulty, they shouldve looked  into what his 
difficulties were  and to try and help. So I need to decide whether Lloyds did enough to support Mr M 
using the information  they had available.
Ive seen that Mr M requested numerous overdraft increases from £100 in February  2012 to £3,000 in 
September 2012. I wanted  to understand if Lloyds had lent responsibly to Mr M so I asked them  to 
provide details of the information they used  to apply  those  increases - as Ive seen that Mr M had 
several applications  declined  then agreed at a later date. Lloyds have told us what  information  they 
used, and Im satisfied based on the evidence  available that Lloyds did enough  to check Mr M could 
afford the overdraft before increasing his limit. 
Ref: DRN17438893On 27 September 2013, Mr M contacted Lloyds  as he hadnt received some wages  he was expecting  
and was worried some pending transactions would  take him over his overdraft  limit. He also told them 
he was suffering from an addiction. He got in touch the following month after receiving  a letter  from 
Lloyds telling him hed exceeded his limit. Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements at the time and Ive 
seen that generally his account was well run in that he had regular income and rarely exceeded his 
overdraft limit. I cant see that Mr M made Lloyds aware at this point that he was in financial  difficulty  
and I dont think  they had enough information to recognise he might have needed help to manage his 
finances.  
It looks like the next time Mr M made contact with Lloyds  was 28 March 2014.  At this point he told 
Lloyds that he was likely  to go above  his limit due to multiple payments to gambling sites. Ive seen 
that Lloyds suggested at this point  Mr M could set limits on the sites or seek  assistance from charities 
to help him manage his addiction. Ive also seen  they suggested Mr M call back  once all the payments 
had debited  to complete an income  and expenditure form so they could help him manage his finances 
- but I havent  seen any evidence  that he followed up on this. So I cant say that Lloyds acted 
unreasonably towards Mr M.
Mr M didnt contact Lloyds again until 1 September 2015 when he then made them aware he was in 
financial difficulty. Ive seen that Lloyds completed an income and expenditure with Mr M at this point 
to see what they could do to help him. It was at this point  Lloyds agreed to refinance the outstanding 
overdraft into a loan and reduced Mr Ms overdraft to £250.  
Ive thought about whether this was the best thing for Mr M as Id expect a business  to treat 
customers in financial difficulty positively  and sympathetically. I asked Lloyds why they chose this as 
an option rather than freezing Mr Ms account and any applicable charges  as this wouldve been  
another available option. Lloyds explained that this wouldve meant they wouldve had to default Mr 
Ms account  - which they thought would make matters worse for him. And based on his income and 
expenditure, the loan refinance was the best option. Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds  acted reasonably 
towards Mr M.
Ive seen that since September 2015, Mr M has gone over his overdraft  at various times and has 
continued to use payday lenders and gambling sites. And I recognise  Mr M feels  it was clear he had 
an addiction and financial difficulties so Lloyds  had a duty of care to him. But I think  Lloyds could  
reasonably have expected Mr M to make additional contact with them and discuss any financial 
issues he was having given their previous discussions and offers  of help. 
With that in mind, Mr M did get in contact with Lloyds again in June 2017 because  he was having 
problems with some unexpected bills. Lloyds  agreed to increase his overdraft limit temporarily  
presumably to help Mr M avoid  overdraft  over limit charges. And the banks notes  indicate Mr M said 
then that he had got his addiction under control, and I dont think  Lloyds wouldve had any reason to 
doubt him.
Mr Ms bank  statements show that his overall  account conduct from 2015 was generally good and he 
stayed within his overdraft  limits for the majority of the time. Ive also seen when  Mr M made  Lloyds 
aware that he was struggling to stay within his limits in March and June 2017, they offered him a 
temporary increase again  so he wouldnt exceed his overdraft and incur additional charges. So I think  
Lloyds have treated Mr M reasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I feel the charges and fees were  applied to his account correctly and 
in line with the terms and conditions. And Im satisfied Lloyds treated Mr M fairly, so I wont  be asking 
them to do anything more.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN17438894Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr M to accept  or reject my 
decision before 13 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743889