K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss E. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which started in 1999,  a couple of years after the store 
credit account which it covered. FICL  says the PPI was sold to Miss E by phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Ive considered  what  Miss E has said,  but 
Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. I will explain why. 
Miss E says she was sold the PPI when in a shop, and the sales  person said she would get 
a discount on her purchases  if she took it. However  FICL says the PPI was sold by phone,  
and I do think this is likely. I say this because Ive looked at the store account application 
form which Miss E signed. There was a section for her to tick and sign,  if she wanted 
account cover but on her form, this was left blank. And that store  account  application  was 
in 1997 and FICLs records say the PPI started  in 1999. Assuming there was a phone  sales  
call, it would have  been clear that PPI wasnt compulsory, as Miss E had already had the 
use of the credit account for quite a while by then.
The start of the PPI was a long time ago  about  20 years. So it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt  remember  something that happened so long ago, especially something like 
a sales phone call. Miss E is saying the PPI was added without her agreement.  But, where 
someone has said another  person  or organisation has done  something wrong, fairness  
requires that the person making the allegation  should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. I realise this would be very difficult  for Miss E to do in 
reality. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without her 
consent. 
Although Miss E is certain that she didnt agree to the PPI, Ive still checked  to see whether  
there are other reasons  the PPI was mis-sold. But I dont think these apply in her case:
 
It doesnt seem that FICL would have recommended the PPI as being  particularly 
suitable for Miss Es individual needs. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted  
her circumstances. It would have been  for Miss E to decide whether it was suitable.
However FICL did need  to give Miss E clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont know how much  detail the adviser actually gave during any 
phone call. So Ive thought about  whether full information is likely to have made  a 
Ref: DRN10902372difference. But in Miss Es circumstances at the time, even  if shed been  given  all the 
necessary information,  I dont think its likely  to have made a difference to whether she 
took PPI. (This is assuming she was given a choice   which  I accept she says didnt 
happen.) I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer  
than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been  in addition to any 
employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And it would have meant  she could have kept any 
savings in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt  look like shed have been affected  by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have  seemed  
potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1090237