K820x#14complaint
Ms F and Mr R are unhappy Stewart Title Limited didnt pay out on a claim they made  
relating to an information accuracy indemnity policy. 
background
In 2015 Ms F and Mr R purchased their current property. A company, N, was engaged to 
carry out searches  which included  requesting information from the local authority about the 
planning and building regulation applications  relevant to the property. As part of that process 
Ms F and Mr R benefited  from an insurance  policy taken out by N (and underwritten by 
Stewart Title) which provided cover where  incorrect information was provided in response  to 
that search as a result of negligence or error by the local authority or N (subject to various 
exclusions and conditions). 
After they purchased the property Ms F and Mr R found (in 2018) that work was required to 
the foundations. That work revealed historic  underpinning. They  contacted the local authority 
and those inquiries  revealed a building regulations  entry for work from the early 1980s.  
Ms F and Mr R said if their search  had revealed this theyd have negotiated a lower  
purchase price for their property. And they sought  compensation under the terms of the 
insurance policy. 
Stewart Title said N had carried out a standard search which didnt reveal  the information 
Ms F and Mr R subsequently  obtained. It said a duplicate search had subsequently been 
carried out which didnt  reveal the existence  of this information either. It said the report  N 
produced followed  the normal process  and was accurate. It believed Ms F and Mr R had 
been able to obtain more  information by making  additional inquiries that went beyond  the 
normal search process. So it didnt think this claim was covered by their policy.   
Our investigator thought the claim  had been turned down in line with the policy  terms. 
However, Ms F and Mr R didnt agree.  They said the duplicate local authority search  said 
building regulations information  was only revealed  from 1 January 2000 and that earlier  
applications might  exist. But the report from N said records had been searched  from 1988 
(although completion  certificates werent available for work carried  out prior to 2000). So 
they thought the report from N was inaccurate. And they said if it had been  made  clear  that 
other information might be available  theyve have asked about this at the time. So I need  to 
reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of the policy  that Ms F and Mr R were  potential 
beneficiaries of as purchasers of their property.  I note that for cover to be provided there 
needs to have been an Adverse Entry which the policy  defines  as:
Any matter or matters  which would  have been disclosed in forms LLC1 and CON 29 ( R ) 
(Law Society Copyright  002 Edition as amended by the Law Society  from time to time) and 
which was in existence on or before  the date of Personal Search  which adversely affects the 
value of the Property but which was not disclosed in the Personal  Search due to the failure 
of the Local Authority to provide answers to the questions  raised  in the Personal  Search 
Ref: DRN14910062either because of its failure to make the relevant registers available  to the Organisation  or a 
failure to supply relevant information;
Any matter  or matters which would have been disclosed in forms LLC1 and CON 29 ( R ) 
and CON 29( 0 ) (Law  Society Copyright 2002 Edition as amended by the Law Society from 
time to time) and which was in existence on or before the date of Personal Search which  
adversely affects  the value of the Property but which was not disclosed in the Personal 
Search due to:-
(i) incorrect information being  given to the Organisation by the Local Authority
(ii) (subject to Exclusion  (e) incorrect or failure to provide answers  due to an error or 
omission on the part of the Organisation.
Exclusion (e) is that the policy wont cover a claim where N has a professional  indemnity  
policy that would also cover the same thing. Stewart  Title hasnt used that as a reason for 
turning down the claim so I havent  considered that issue in this decision.  
It's not in dispute the local authority did have some  record of the work carried out at Ms F 
and Mr Rs property in the early 1980s (as it was subsequently able to provide this to them). 
I think the key issue  here is whether the fact that wasnt included  in the report  that N 
produced meets the definition of Adverse Event in the policy.  For that to be the case  the 
non-disclosure of information about  it must  have come about because  the local authority 
failed to supply  the answers  to the questions raised in the search or because it provided 
inaccurate information in response to those questions. Or the reason for the non-disclosure 
must be because of an error or omission on the part of N. I dont think  whats happened here 
does meet that definition. Ill explain why. 
From the information Ive seen it appears  N asked  standard questions of the local authority 
and its report was based on that information.  I havent seen any evidence  to show  the local 
authority didnt answer the relevant question about building regulations;  in fact its clear it did 
answer this question because the report N provided  includes information  relevant to that. 
I think its also clear  that the report by the local authority wouldnt have disclosed information 
about the work carried out in the early 1980s. Both the report  N produced and the 
information the local authority provided in response  to the subsequent duplicate search 
request are clear that the information provided  doesnt cover applications dating back  as far 
as that. 
I appreciate when Ms F and Mr R made  further inquiries of the authority at a later date it was 
then able to provide additional information.  But I understand that was raised as a specific  
inquiry (and followed on from the discovery  that work had been  carried out at their property). 
I dont think it shows that information should have been provided  in response to the inquiries 
N made  I think its clear those responses wouldnt have covered this period. So I dont 
think the local authority  failed  to answer a question or provided incorrect information to N. 
Ms F and Mr R have argued there  was an error in Ns report  because the response from the 
local authority (which was provided  in response to the duplicate  application  in 2018) said 
information had been searched  from 2000 and thats  different to what  Ns report  in 2015  said 
(which referred to a search from 1988). However,  I think its possible that what in fact 
happened was the local authoritys process  or wording changed in the three  years  since the 
initial search was undertaken.  
Ref: DRN14910063Even if thats  wrong and this wording in Ns report was incorrect  I still dont think this would 
meet the definition  in the policy terms. To do so an error or omission on the part of N would 
need to have led to the non-disclosure of the Adverse Event in its report. That would likely 
be the case if this information  had been  contained  in the information  the local authority 
provided but N didnt  include this in its report.  But that isnt what happened here. In this case 
even if N should  have said that the search  had been carried out from 2000 (rather  than 
1988) the details of the building work  from the early 1980s still wouldnt have been included 
in its report. 
Ms F and Mr R argue  if theyd known the search  only went  back as far as 2000 then this 
would have caused them to make further inquiries. But Im conscious  of the fact theyre 
making that comment in the knowledge of problems at the property which they didnt have at 
the time.  And its not clear  whether  any general  inquiries they made at that time would have 
revealed the previous building work. In any case,  for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think 
any error (if there was one) in Ns report meets the definition of Adverse Event in the policy  
terms - and so I dont think this is an issue that Stewart Title as the insurer of the policy 
needs to address. 
Stewart Title have  also questioned whether or not the historic  building work did in fact 
adversely affect  the value of Ms F and Mr Rs property (which needs to be the case for this 
to be an Adverse Event). But I dont  need  to reach a view on that because  I dont think  the 
claim Ms F and Mr R have made meets the definition of an Adverse Event in any case.
 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
23 December 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1491006