K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about Old Park Capital Limited  (OPC), the operator of a Business 
Premises Renovation  Allowance (BPRA) scheme (the scheme).  It was a collective 
investment scheme  and he invested  £30,000 (and borrowed money) into it in 2013.  He says 
OPC:
Failed to inform him that insufficient  capital had been raised  for the scheme, which 
would have prompted him to exercise  a contractual right to withdraw his funds from it.
Failed to provide updates about the scheme/his investment.
Failed to file tax returns   related  to the scheme   on time,  which  led to him facing 
HMRC fines.
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and noted/concluded as follows:
OPC  had not responded to the complaint Mr K made  to them  and it had not 
responded to information requests from this service.
Therefore, a view on the complaint had to be concluded on the basis  of available  
evidence (from Mr K), wider knowledge about OPCs role in the scheme and 
information from a previous  final decision  from this service about a 
similar/comparable complaint.
The failure to raise the requisite  capital  for the scheme increased  its risk of failure  
and altered its risk profile  making  that profile different from when Mr K invested in it.
It is likely  that Mr K would have withdrawn from it if he was aware of this failure  and 
of the change in circumstances; it would  have been reasonable for him to do so; 
OPC was wrong to have failed to inform  him about it; and its failure deprived him of 
the opportunity,  that he was entitled to, to withdraw  his investment.
The complaint  should be upheld and OPC  should refund Mr Ks investment to him 
(with interest), should compensate him for the tax penalties  (arising  from the scheme) 
he faced (with interest) and pay him £750 for the trouble and upset the matter  has 
caused him.
Mr K accepted this outcome. OPC initially promised a substantive  response  to the 
investigators findings, it then raised a concern that the complaint is out of time. It said,  the 
complaint had been made more than six years after advice was given to Mr K, by a third 
party, to invest in the scheme; so it is outside the regulators  six years time limit for making 
complaints. 
The investigator addressed this point and concluded  that the complaint is not about the third 
partys advice but about OPCs role in operating the scheme; that confirmation of Mr Ks 
investment in the scheme took place on 22 April 2013 and his complaint was made  on 2 
April 2019; that his complaint has therefore  been  made within six years of his investment in 
the scheme; and this captures the complaint issues about OPCs  operation  of the scheme.
OPC retained the view that the (earlier) date of advice should be used to calculate the 
deadline for Mr Ks complaint, but it repeated its promise to provide a substantive  response 
on the complaints merits. It did not do so by the date set for this and it does not appear to 
have done so since. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN14999472my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the investigator in terms of our jurisdiction to address the 
complaint and in terms of its merits.
Jurisdiction
The time limit rules say that a complaint must be made within  six years  of the event being 
complained about or, if later, within three  years  of when the consumer knew  or ought 
reasonably to have  known  they had cause for complaint.  
This is set out in DISP 2.8.3 which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary  resolution communication ; or
more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint  having been  received; [my emphasis]
Mr Ks complaint is about how OPC  operated, managed and administered the scheme. This 
is supported by the submissions he has made  about  his complaint. It is not about the advice 
he received to invest in the scheme  and, as OPC has reminded us, that advice was given by 
a third party (not OPC). If Mr K sought to complain about the advice, he would probably  have  
done so to the third party (not OPC).
There is available written  evidence of OPC confirming Mr Ks investment in the scheme on 
22 April 2013. His complaint is about  events,  and the alleged failures by OPC, thereafter.  He 
had six years from this date (at the earliest) to make  his complaint  so he had a complaint 
deadline of 22 April 2019. His complaint on 2 April 2019 was before this deadline, it has 
been made within the regulators  six years  time limit and we have jurisdiction to consider its 
merits. 
Merits
It is unfortunate that OPC  appears to have abandoned a number of opportunities it had to 
substantiate its position on the merits of Mr Ks complaint. It is not clear  why this has been 
the case. Nevertheless, I consider that the investigator had enough available evidence and 
wider information to determine  his view on the complaint  the wider  information includes 
documentation provided as part of other complaints referred to this service about  OPC, 
about the same scheme and about the same  complaint issues. I have used the same  wider 
Ref: DRN14999473basis (of evidence and information,  including  comments from OPC) to determine this 
decision. I find as follows  
Tax Returns
Tax return  documentation, including those signed by OPC, confirms  its responsibility 
to file the schemes/its members tax returns.  The members  agreement for the 
scheme also refers to the operator/manager (which  was OPC) having an 
administrative obligation in this respect.
There is ample evidence of OPCs failure to file the tax returns  relevant to Mr K, to 
his investment in the scheme  and to his complaint. This includes evidence  of cross 
correspondence between  him (and other  members  of the scheme) and OPC over this 
matter and HMRC documentation  about  the fines incurred by Mr K. The contents of 
the cross  correspondence provide  enough basis to conclude that OPC was 
responsible for the relevant filing, had to be chased and reminded to discharge  its 
responsibility and had to be chased to assist in addressing problems with HMRC 
arising from the late tax return  filings.
Overall, I consider that OPC  was inefficient in filing the tax returns and that this led to 
the problems with and the fines from HMRC that Mr K faced.  There  is wider evidence  
of the same cause  and effect in the other complaints referred to this service   one of 
which has already  been upheld. OPC had a regulated duty to discharge this 
responsibility with due skill, care and diligence and it was aware of the requirement to 
submit the relevant  tax returns on time (in order to avoid fines).  Its failure to do so 
breached this duty and, importantly, directly caused the fines  applied  to Mr K, so it 
must be responsible  for compensating him in this respect.
Withdrawal from the scheme
Tax return  documentation signed  by OPC  also confirms that it was the 
operator/manager of the scheme.
There is evidence of an information memorandum (IM)  for the scheme that was 
given to Mr K. As I said above, other complaints  about OPC, about the same  scheme  
and about the same allegations as those made by Mr K have been submitted to this 
service by other members of the scheme;  one has already been determined,  by a 
previous ombudsman decision, and some of the others have been referred to me.
There are copies  of the IM within the documentation for all the complaints (about 
OPC and about the scheme) we have received. I have access  to them  all and I 
consider them applicable to Mr Ks complaint. The same  applies to other relevant 
documents, including membership and management agreement  documentation for 
the scheme.
The IM refers to the scheme raising around  £7 million (roughly equally split between 
investor capital and loans) in order to acquire and develop  a specific commercial 
property for commercial purposes. It is in this context that it was sold as a scheme 
that benefits from potential BPRA based tax reliefs. 
Within the IM references are made to the different  details and terms of the scheme. 
These include a minimum investment subscription (made up of investor  capital and a 
Ref: DRN14999474loan element), a minimum investor capital  amount,  a list of the scheme managers 
responsibilities (which expressly  include the duty to report to and update the 
schemes members on their interests  in and progress of the scheme and to give them 
access to the schemes records) and, importantly (and under the headings of LLP 
Financing and Risk Factors), confirmation  of the following  
The total funds required to be raised  by the LLP in order for the Offer to proceed are 
£3,750,000  [my emphasis]
If insufficient subscriptions  in the view of [the manager] are received and a financial 
close fails to occur, then monies subscribed,  with any interest  earned thereon,  will be 
returned to subscribers. [my emphasis]
The management agreement  for the scheme  echoed broadly the same list of 
responsibilities as provided in the IM and the terms for the scheme  addressed in the 
IM are broadly reflected  in the management and membership agreements.
OPCs wider evidence is that raising  capital for the scheme was supposed to span 
the 2012/2013 and 2013/2014  tax years and that development work was supposed  to 
be agreed or begin before  the end of the first tax year (and before financing  for the 
scheme was concluded)  in order to qualify for tax relief related to that year.  It has 
argued that the scheme was therefore permitted to proceed  into action before its 
financing was completed and/or despite  any shortfall  in its financing. 
Significantly less than the required  investor capital was raised for the scheme  
around 15% of it was raised, which amounted to around 7% of the total scheme 
funding required.  A loan facility  of around  £3 million was used to support this 
shortfall, but the effect was that the ratio of loan/borrowing/debt  to capital/equity 
changed drastically from what had been presented to Mr K at the outset and, with 
this, the risk profile of the scheme  also changed  (increased)  significantly. The capital 
and loan split was no longer broadly equal,  instead the loan element was around six 
times the size of the capital element.
I consider that OPCs responsibilities  as manager and operator of the scheme  
included the duty to disclose this to Mr K at the time. This fell within  its duty to report  
to, and update,  the schemes  members  on their interests in the scheme and on the 
schemes progress. I have not seen evidence that it did. Mr K asserts  that he was not 
informed and, on balance  (and in the absence of evidence  to the contrary),  I accept 
his assertion. 
In addition to OPCs  reporting obligations  the need to disclose the financing  state of 
affairs to members like Mr K was also essential  in the context of the capital refund 
arrangement I quoted  above. With significantly less investor capital  than required,  the 
viability of the scheme  had to be doubtful and on that basis the prospect of refunding  
monies subscribed must have been  a probability, at least, if not a certainty. This 
could not have been reasonably concealed from the investors and it was 
unreasonable for OPC  not to have updated  any of them  in this respect.  
Even if OPC  decided  to retain  optimism about the scheme despite the significant 
financing shortfall,  it managed and operated it on behalf  of the investors like Mr K. If it 
believed there  was merit in proceeding further  despite the shortfall,  that should have 
been expressed as a part of its update  to him on the matter and he should  have  been  
Ref: DRN14999475given the option of either sharing OPCs optimism  or exercising  his right to withdraw 
his capital. It was unreasonable for OPC to deprive him of discretion/choice in this 
respect and that is what it did by not updating/informing him about  the shortfall. Had 
he been so informed, I am persuaded by evidence that he  would have withdrawn his 
capital; funding would have been  essential  to a scheme in which the sole or main  
activity was property  development;  without requisite capital to fund such  development 
it is arguable that the scheme was no longer  viable (especially  as the investor  capital 
generated was so significantly less than was required);  and I consider that this would  
probably have  been  the rationale  behind a decision by Mr K to withdraw  his capital.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Mr K must be compensated by OPC in this 
matter too. Furthermore, I endorse the investigators finding that OPC should pay him 
£750 for the trouble  and upset he has been  caused in the matters related to OPCs  
mismanagement of the scheme.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr K as close as I can to the position  he would 
probably now be in if he had been  informed  about  the financing  shortfall  and had withdrawn 
his capital (and loan); and if OPC had not delayed in filing his tax returns. 
Tax Returns
Fair compensation for Mr K in this respect  is to receive,  with interest, an amount that covers 
the total of all the fines and/or penalties  from HMRC that he faced and paid as a direct  result 
of OPCs delay in filing his and/or  the schemes tax returns. Evidence  of the relevant HMRC 
fines/penalties appear to have already been shared between the parties, however Mr K can 
re-produce such evidence  to OPC upon its request, if needed to calculate the compensation 
figure.
Withdrawal from the scheme
It is necessary to consider when Mr K ought  to have  been told about  the financing  shortfall. 
This will help to define the point (thereafter) at which he would have been due a refund of his 
capital, having  previously asked for it in response  to news about the shortfall.  The decision 
that was made in the other case considered this too. The ombudsman  concluded that the 
point at which the relevant complainant ought  to have been due a refund is 30 June 2013, 
and I agree.
OPC was aware of the shortfall around  the start of the 2013/2014 tax year; reasonable time 
should be allowed  for OPCs consideration of the impact of  the shortfall  and of any solution 
it might  have wished to explore (and propose);  had it then informed Mr K soon thereafter, 
reasonable time should be allowed for Mr Ks consideration of his position (and his decision) 
in response to such an important update; I repeat, I am persuaded that he would have 
decided to withdraw his capital  (and loan), so reasonable time should also be allowed for 
him communicating  this and for the processing of such withdrawal; overall,  and subsequent  
to these allowances,  I consider  that the refund  of his capital (and loan)  would have been due 
to him by the end of the first quarter in the 2013/2014 tax year  that is, 30 June 2013.
The refund entitlement included any applicable interest (from  when the payment was made 
into the scheme to when  it was withdrawn  the first period) so this must be reflected  in the 
compensation due to Mr K. The effect  being  that the refund amount that would have been 
Ref: DRN14999476due to him on 30 June  2013 would have included any applicable interest for the first period 
(the end of the first period being  30 June 2013)  and, as explained below,  additional 
interest must  then be calculated upon that amount  from 1 July 2013  to the date of settlement 
(the second  period). The interest rate applicable  for the first period does not appear to be 
stipulated in available evidence so the Bank  of England  base rate should be used in this 
respect.
what must  OPC do?
To compensate Mr K fairly,  OPC must:
Tax Returns
Pay him the amount equal to the total of all the HMRC fines and/or penalties  he 
incurred/incurs as a direct  result  of OPCs filing of his/the schemes tax returns at the 
times that it did; plus interest  from the time Mr K paid/pays the fines/penalties  to 
HMRC to the date OPC settles  this compensation; interest applies at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
Withdrawal from the scheme
Pay him the amount equal to his capital investment plus interest at the Bank of 
England base rate from the date of his investment  up to 30 June 2013 (the refund 
amount);  plus interest  on the refund amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 1 
July 2013 to the date OPC  settles  this compensation; plus any loan element of Mr Ks 
investment and plus any and all interest  payments and charges he incurred/incurs  in 
relation to the loan element.
[Mr K should  give credit  for any tax relief (or similar  benefit) he has received from 
HMRC in relation  to his investment in the scheme which  he has not paid back  and/or 
does not have to pay back.]
[If relevant  and if OPC  requests, Mr K should also assign to OPC any remaining 
interest he has in the scheme so that if there  is any present or future value in it such  
value would belong  to OPC.]
Pay him compensation  for any reasonable costs he has incurred, since  30 June 
2013, in trying to resolve the schemes  problems with OPC; and/or in trying  to 
dissolve or mitigate his interest in the scheme;  Mr K must provide OPC with 
documentary evidence of any such reasonable costs.
Trouble and Upset
Pay him £750 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the problems that arose 
from the scheme because OPC denied him the opportunity to withdraw his 
investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded (above).
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
Ref: DRN14999477compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I order Old Park Capital Limited to 
pay him compensation as detailed above  and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499947