K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that LeasePlan UK Limited  didnt  provide him with the registration document  
for a car that he paid for using a loan agreement and about  its administration errors.
background
Mr S signed  a loan agreement  with LeasePlan in September under which it lent him the 
money to pay for a car under an employee car ownership scheme.  He received the car in 
January 2019  but LeasePlan didnt provide him with the V5 registration document. He 
complained to it about that  and some administrative  issues.  It allowed him to return  the car 
and end the loan agreement in May 2019.  But he complained to this service and said that he 
should also receive some financial compensation.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
there was conflicting  information between the terms of the loan agreement and what  actually  
took place regarding the registration document and that there were administration  flaws 
relating to documentation and Mr Ss direct debit.  She said that that would have caused 
distress and inconvenience to Mr S and she recommended that it should  pay him £250  
compensation.
LeasePlan accepted that recommendation  but Mr S said that he should receive more 
compensation, a refund  of the payments that he made under the agreement  for maintenance 
and ancillary services and a pro-rata refund of his monthly payment  for May 2019. The 
adjudicator didnt agree that the amount of compensation should  be increased but agreed 
that he should be given a refund for the maintenance payments and a partial  refund of his 
May 2019 payment.
LeasePlan has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that Mr S used the car to drive  4,098  miles so there was wear to the tyres and 
serviceable fluids were used together with all of the mechanical parts that are covered under 
the maintenance plan  so it disagrees  that he should be refunded  for his maintenance 
payments. It also says that it understands that Mr S has been reimbursed by his employer  
for the pro-rata May payment and that hes receiving a monthly cash allowance  for his new 
car from his employer.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to LeasePlan on 23 April 2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Its clearly  standard practice  for cars bought  under this employee ownership 
scheme for LeasePlan  to keep the registration document and it has agreed that with 
Mr Ss employer.  But Im not persuaded that that was properly explained  to Mr S 
before he signed  the agreement and its not consistent with the terms of the loan 
agreement. There  have also been other administrative errors by LeasePlan in its 
dealings with Mr S which  have been  described  by the adjudicator.  That will have  
caused him distress  and inconvenience and I agree with the adjudicator that it would 
be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £250 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience. LeasePlan  has agreed to make  that payment and Im not persuaded 
that a higher award of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN17715982LeasePlan allowed Mr S to return the car and end the loan agreement after less than 
five months. He made monthly payments under the agreement for the car which 
included maintenance and ancillary services. He had use of the car for that period 
and was able to drive  the car for 4,098 miles.  Although there was no need for him to 
have the car repaired or serviced during that period, he did benefit from the 
protection and assurance that the maintenance cover provided  him. So Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require LeasePlan to refund  to 
him the amount that he paid for the maintenance cover for the period when he had 
the car. 
Mr S made a full payment  under the agreement for May 2019 but returned the car 
part way through that month. LeasePlan says that it understands that Mr S has been 
reimbursed by his employer pro-rata for the May 2019 payment. But Ive seen  no 
evidence to show that Mr S has received such a refund.  I find that it would  be fair and 
reasonable for LeasePlan to refund to Mr S a pro rata amount of his May 2019 
payment for the period from when he returned  the car until the end of that month. 
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for LeasePlan to pay to Mr S the £250 
that its agreed to pay him as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  that 
hes been caused and to make a pro-rata  refund  to him for his May 20129 payment.  
But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require it to take any other action in response  to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr S or LeasePlan, my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
LeasePlan says that it has issued a credit  and paid the compensation to Mr S. He has 
responded to my provisional decision in detail  and says, in summary   and amongst other 
things, that:
he wouldnt have signed  the agreement or taken delivery of the car if hed been told 
that he wouldnt be the legal owner and registered keeper  of it;
the car was new so any fault arising, and roadside recovery,  was provided by the 
manufacturer as part of its standard warranty so none of the maintenance payment 
was spent by LeasePlan;
the maintenance charge wasnt utilised  or required  during  the five months  that he had 
the car and he feels that its fully justified that he has a full refund of the maintenance 
costs, which would  equate to £384.85;
he feels that £250 is a relatively low amount for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused; and
at the very least the adjudicators recommendation should be re-instated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require LeasePlan to refund to Mr S the amount that he paid for the 
maintenance cover for the period  when  he had the car.
Ref: DRN17715983I find that it would be fair and reasonable for LeasePlan to refund to Mr S a pro rata amount 
of his May 2019  payment  for the period  from when he returned the car until the end of that 
month  and LeasePlan says that its issued a credit  to him.
Mr S has been caused distress and inconvenience  as a result of his dealings  with LeasePlan 
and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £250 to compensate him for 
that distress and inconvenience.  LeasePlan  says that its paid that compensation to Mr S 
and Im not persuaded that a higher award  of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and I 
order LeasePlan UK Limited, if it hasnt already done so, to:
1.Pay £250 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
2.Refund to Mr S a pro rata amount  of his May 2019 payment for the period from when 
he returned the car until the end of that month.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1771598