K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) wont refund a series of payments 
made on his Post Office credit card. Mr G says he did not authorise these payments.
Background
I sent Mr G and BOI my provisional decision on this matter on 3 March 2021. In my 
provisional decision - which forms part of this final decision and is attached below  I said 
that I was planning to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. 
Broadly, I said BOI should refund some  of the transactions Mr G disputes  to having made in 
a club abroad.  
I explained that based on the information  I had, it was most likely Mr G consented to the 
transactions. But I was persuaded  he was somehow  deceived  into some  of the higher-value  
payments.  And that BOIs processes, in the circumstances of this complaint,  didnt  meet the 
obligation it had to protect Mr G from financial harm. 
I went onto say that BOI should have intervened and questioned the payment from a certain  
point based on how high the amount was. And had it done so, its likely  BOI would have 
blocked Mr Gs account until it was satisfied the out of character payment was genuine. So I 
recommended BOI pay back all the transactions from that point onwards. 
I then invited both parties  to submit any further  evidence or comments they would like me to 
consider before I reach  my final decision by 17 March 2021.  That time has now passed.  
Mr G says he accepts what I said. BOI havent responded. So I will now decide this matter.  
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having done that, and for the same reasoning that I 
set-out in my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint in part. 
As neither party has raised any new arguments,  or sent me new information to consider, the 
reasons for reaching this decision are summarised above - and set-out in detail below in my 
provisional decision.  
Putting things  right
I direct  BOI to: 
-Refund payments of £8,181.56
-Restructure Mr Gs account balance as if the payments had not been  made,  refunding 
any charges or interest attributable to the payments.
 
-If after reworking the account as above,  Mr G has paid more  than he should  have  
towards his credit  card, this amount should be refunded to him plus 8% simple  interest  
per annum  from the date of the payments until the date they are settled.
Ref: DRN12851192-If because of these payments Mr G has had any adverse information recorded with 
credit agencies,  this should be corrected.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  So Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should now put things 
right as Ive explained  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12851193COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) wont  refund a series of payments made  on his 
Post Office credit  card. Mr G says he did not authorise these payments.
Background
Whilst abroad, Mr G visited  a club late on the evening of 10 April 2019. Mr G accepts  he authorised 
the first two payments in the club. A third payment was attempted but it was blocked by BOI. 
The block was removed from Mr Gs card after he verified  he was attempting payment  by SMS text 
message. 
Mr G accepts he made the next payment of £197.52 but not the subsequent five payments,  which 
totalled £8,926.21.  Here is a table detailing  what happened: 
Date Time Notes Amount
10.4.2019 23:18 £39.71
10.4.2019 23:43 £50.28
11.4.2019 00:07 SMS text message sent by BOI
11.4.2019 00:07 Rejected £285.18
11.4.2019 00:12 Rejected £285.18
11.4.2019 00:18 Block removed following  SMS text message verification
11.4.2019 00:24 £197.52
11.4.2019 00:42 Disputed £197.52
11.4.2019 02:45 Disputed £547.13
11.4.2019 03:20 Disputed £1,049.89
11.4.2019 05:14 Disputed £2,110.35
11.4.2019 05:43 Disputed £5,021.32
11.4.2019 06:26 Rejected  no available funds £4,911.47
Mr G says he doesnt recall anything after he made  the first payment of £197.52. He next remembers  
waking up, around 8.00a.m, in a street near to the club. He says he had a bang to his head which 
needed stiches applied  at the local hospital. 
Mr G believes his drink  was spiked and his PIN overseen. He says he never wrote down or kept a 
record of his PIN. Mr G questions why some  of the transactions were  processed after the club had 
closed. And why BOIs processed payments that fell outside his normal spending pattern.   
BOI didnt uphold Mr Gs claim for the transactions to be refunded. In summary it said:  
Mr Gs last twelve months of spending activity was consistent with his normal activity,  so it didnt  
consider this unusual.
Mr G had visited a similar type of club in the UK within the last twelve months.
It had taken appropriate steps when  it blocked and then contacted Mr G about  the purchase, 
which he confirmed as genuine by SMS text. 
When  Mr G responded that the transaction was genuine, a free flow was applied  to the card for 
24 hours.  This allowed  all transactions to bypass any rules  and stopped further genuine 
transactions from flagging. 
Ref: DRN12851194Mr G referred his complaint  to this service. One of our investigators looked into it and recommended 
the complaint be upheld  in summary  they said:  
Mr Gs transactions in the club were  all authenticated by CHIP and PIN.
Mr G consented to all the payments  given the pattern of spend;  he had possession of his card, 
and there  was nothing to show how his PIN was obtained by a potential fraudster.
But Mr G was likely the victim  of some deception  on the part of the club given  the value and 
increasing nature  of the transactions.  
BOI failed in its duty under the BSI code, section 5.3.1   which relates to banks having 
appropriate measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate 
fraud or financial  abuse.
The transactions were so unusual, and if it wasnt for the free flow BOI applied, its likely it would 
have flagged  the transactions to Mr G. So, they thought BOI ought to have  done more to prevent 
some of the transactions.
They, our investigator, had seen information about  other fraudulent claims  made  at that club.  
As the payments were in a foreign currency,  its possible Mr G wasnt fully aware of how much he 
was spending  in GBP.
Our investigator  recommended BOI refund  all the transactions from and including the payment 
made at 2:45am for £547.13.
BOI did not agree  with what our investigator said. In short, it said: 
Its unlikely someone returned Mr Gs card after having possession  of it for so long and that 
someone had knowledge  of the PIN.
Theres  no evidence Mr G was drugged at the club.
Mr G was drinking so its questionable if he was fully aware of his actions or remembered them 
correctly.
As Mr G has confirmed he was at the club, and replied  that previous transactions  were genuine, 
BOI hadnt  acted unfairly by not stopping any further payments. 
Its BOIs  standard  approach to apply a free flow to an account for 24 hours  once a flagged 
transaction has been confirmed  as genuine.  
Given  Mr G cant remember  anything from 1.30am until 8.00am, its unlikely he would  have 
responded to any further intervention on BOIs part.
BOI shouldnt be held liable for Mr G putting  himself in a position where he could no longer make 
responsible decisions or take due care of his account.
The BSI code - Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
 is only a code  not a regulation  and it only gives  guidance.  
Our investigator responded to BOIs arguments, reiterating why they thought the transactions  were  
unusual, considering  Mr Gs spending history. And they said there was strong evidence of clubs of 
this nature inflating prices  and charging  excessively  in the country Mr G was in. 
BOI disagreed  with what our investigator said. So the complaint  has now been  passed to me to decide. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  And having done so, Im planning  to reach a similar outcome to that 
of our investigator - Ill explain why. 
Authorisation 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Gs genuine card and PIN were used to make 
the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, on its own,  enough  
to enable BOI to hold him liable. 
Ref: DRN12851195The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 (the PSRs  2017). 
Under the regulations, a payment transaction is regarded  as having been authorised by the payer  
only if the payer has given his consent to the execution of the payment transaction. 
So, I need to think about whether the evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr G 
consented to the transactions.
The regulations go on to say that such consent must be given in the form,  and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.  The form and procedure  are 
usually set out in the terms and conditions. Typically, this is the use of the card and PIN. 
Mr Gs testimony - which has been consistent throughout - is that he can last remember  making a 
payment in the very early  hours  of the morning  of the day in question. After  this he says he doesnt 
remember anything. He says he was drugged and woke up later that morning in a street  near the club.  
Though I dont  rule out the possibility,  there  isnt conclusive evidence  to show Mr G was given a drug 
which may have affected his mental state at the club in this way. Nor is there anything  to show Mr Gs 
PIN number  was likely seen  by a fraudster. I note Mr G says he hadnt written his PIN down
If Mr G didnt consent to the transactions he disputes, then his credit card would have  to have been 
stolen from him, used in the club whilst he was there, the PIN number likely observed by someone,  
and then the card returned to him. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant say this is what likely  happened. I say that because its unlikely  a 
fraudster wouldve stolen Mr Gs card for nearly  six hours, and intermittently used it over that period 
with the risk of Mr G discovering what was going  on or coming to his senses if he was drugged. And I 
havent seen anything that persuades me Mr Gs PIN was overseen  by a fraudster. 
  
Where I dont have conclusive evidence,  I need  to decide, on the balance of probabilities,  what I think 
is most likely  to have happened. And having  carefully  given this some thought, for the reasons 
explained above, I find its most likely Mr G consented  to the transactions  he disputes.     
Should BOI have done  more  than it did? 
  
Like our investigator,  Im persuaded  Mr G was likely deceived into making payments which  were much 
higher in value than he thought. I say that because having looked at the transactions, they escalate 
substantively from payments for a couple of hundred pounds, to payments for thousands of pounds. 
Some of the amounts - which range from £1,000 to £5,000 - make me question  what it is Mr G, who was 
alone, could be paying for that costs that much.  And thats accounting for the type of club Mr G was in. 
Ive also looked at Mr Gs spending history on his credit card and current  account. Im satisfied that 
the spend  in the club is unusual for him. I accept Mr G visited  similar clubs of this type in the UK 
within the last 12 months, but his spend that day was much less in total and each payment was for 
much more modest sums.
Of particular  relevance  to the circumstances of this complaint is the BSI code  on protecting
customers from harm  as a result of fraud or financial  abuse. BOI say that this is a code and not a 
regulation. By this I presume it means its not something it has to adhere to strictly.  
But it does represent  good industry  practice  something I am able to have regard to in determining  
the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. The code sets out that firms should take a 
proactive approach to identify out of character transactions or activity  in order to prevent potential  
harm to its customers, including  harm caused by fraud. The code also provides  relevant examples of 
the kinds  of activity  that banks should consider when  asked to process  payments. 
Ref: DRN12851196BOI say it applied a free flow to Mr Gs account after he confirmed, by SMS  text message, that a 
purchase he had attempted in the club for £285.18 was genuine. It argues that this is its normal 
process, and it had done enough by initially  blocking the payment and checking it was genuine.  
In the individual circumstances  of this complaint, I dont think  BOIs process  met the obligation it had 
to protect Mr G from financial harm.  Mr G was abroad, paying in foreign  currency,  and significant 
large sums were  being put through on the card, which was very unusual and out of character for him. 
So while the text message could have been enough to rely on in relation to the payment Mr G made, 
this didnt  mean it ought to be relied on for all subsequent spend no matter what  its value.
Our investigator said BOI ought  to have done more from the payment made  for £547.13. But I dont 
agree with this. Thats because its not an amount thats substantively higher than what  Mr G has 
shown hed attempted, or what we know  he has spent  in a similar type of club. 
I do however think the payment made at 3.20am  for £1,049.89 was an amount  that ought to have 
made BOI intervene  and question it. It follows that I think BOI ought to put things right from that point. 
Intervention at this point  would  likely have meant BOI applying a further block which required a call to Mr G. 
This would have stopped any further payment from being  made until BOI was once again satisfied  the out 
of character payment was genuine. Ive already said its likely Mr G was being deceived. So Im persuaded 
that if he was able to communicate with BOI, he would likely have said these  payments were  fraudulent. 
I note BOI argue that even  if they did try and contact Mr G, he wouldnt have  responded given he 
couldnt remember anything.  If Mr G was drugged and thereby incoherent,  its likely he wouldnt  have 
picked up the phone. If he did pick up the phone, its equally likely BOI wouldve picked up on any 
incoherent or unusual  behaviour from him. This in turn wouldve led to the block remaining in place. 
I dont consider BOI are entitled to make  any deductions to the refunds for contributory negligence.  
Contributory negligence  carries a high bar and I dont think Mr G is at fault for the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Id also like to assure BOI that Ive carefully  considered what its said about  Mr G putting himself in a 
position where  he could no longer make  responsible decisions or take due care of his account, be that 
because he had been drinking. But these points  dont change my mind.   
So after weighing  everything up, Im satisfied Mr G did authorise the transactions  he disputes he made. 
But Im persuaded that BOI ought to have  done  more to protect Mr G from financial harm, and because  
of that it should put Mr G back into the position had it intervened from the point Ive explained above.  
Putting things right
Im planning to direct BOI to: 
-Refund payments of £8,181.56
-Restructure Mr Gs account balance  as if the payments had not been made, refunding any 
charges or interest attributable to the payments.
-If after reworking  the account  as above, Mr G has paid more than he should  have towards  his 
credit card, this amount  should be refunded  to him plus 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of the payments until the date they are settled.
-If because of these  payments Mr G has had any adverse information recorded with credit  
agencies, this should  be corrected.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  on upholding  Mr Gs complaint in part.  
Ref: DRN1285119