K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that Logbook  Money Limited  (Logbook Money) irresponsibly provided  
him with a logbook loan.   
background
Logbook Money provided Mr J with a loan of £1,100 in December 2017.  The loan was due to 
be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £39.49. This meant that the total cost of the loan was 
£3,080.22.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Js complaint. She thought that Mr Js complaint should 
be upheld and that Logbook  Moneys decision to lend was so unfair it should write off the 
remaining balance on Mr Js account.
Logbook Money agreed that it shouldnt have  lent to Mr J. But it thought  that writing off the 
remaining balance was excessive. It instead offered to remove  all the interest and charges 
applied to the outset of the agreement and also terminate the Bill of Sale that it had for        
Mr Js car. Both our adjudicator and Mr J didnt think that this went far enough. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to complaints 
about irresponsible lending complaints on our website. And Ive used this approach to help 
me decide Mr Js complaint.
Both parties  accept that Mr J shouldnt have been provided with his loan. So I dont  need  to 
consider whether it was fair for Logbook  Money  to lent to Mr J in the first place, all I need to 
look at is whether what it has agreed to do goes far enough.
Logbook Money has agreed to remove all of the interest and charges applied to Mr Js 
account from the outset.  And it has also agreed to terminate the Bill of Sale on Mr Js car. 
So, on the face of things,  what  Logbook money has agreed to do is along  the lines of what 
wed typically say a logbook loan provider should  do in cases  where  a logbook loan shouldnt 
have been provided. 
That said,  Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case  and Logbook  Moneys 
decision to provide Mr J with a loan after it had declined  an initial application  because  of his 
gambling. I appreciate  that Logbook  Money may have been prepared  to take this level of risk 
when lending because  it had the confidence and knowledge that Mr Js then partners 
income was going  into Mr Js account.  
But just because Logbook Money thought it had a better chance  of getting its money back 
this doesnt mean that Mr J could repay  what he was lent sustainably.  And having  carefully  
considered matters, I think that Logbook Money  lent to Mr J in circumstances  where it ought 
reasonably to have  realised that there was a significant risk it wouldnt get what it was 
advancing back without  this causing Mr J financial difficulty. 
As Logbook Moneys decision  to advance credit in these circumstances was so egregious  
and paying back  the outstanding balance back is likely to cause Mr J distress and financial 
Ref: DRN11138852difficulty going forward, I think that Logbook  Money needs to do more  to put things right than 
simply removing the interest  and charges  added  to the account from the outset. And I think 
that Logbook Money should write off the outstanding balance on Mr Js loan as well as 
terminating the Bill of Sale on his car.
So to put things right in this case Logbook Money  should write off the existing balance on  
Mr Js loan and also terminate  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.  Logbook Money Limited 
(Logbook Money) should put things  right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113885