K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a mortgage payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. The PPI cost £11.58 per month  and covered Ms M against being  unable to work  due 
to an accident  or sickness. In the event of a successful claim the policy benefit was £350  per 
month and could have been paid for up to 24 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.  
Ive first looked at whether its likely Ms M was given a fair choice about  whether to buy the 
policy.
Nationwide has shown  us the mortgage application form which includes a section on PPI 
which has been completed. 
A statement stating that Ms M would like to take out PPI has been signed  and dated by       
Ms M. I can also see that it has been  amended to show that Ms M only wanted cover  for 
accident and sickness and not unemployment. And these amendments have been initialled 
by Ms M. There is nothing on the form to show Ms M had to take out the PPI. 
Nationwide has also sent us copies of Ms Ms annual mortgage statements and I can see 
the PPI premiums were  included.
Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that Ms M was told the PPI was 
optional and she agreed to take out the policy.
From experience I am aware  that Nationwide generally did not offer mortgage  applicants a 
personal recommendation to take out PPI. So it didnt have to ensure the policy  was right for 
Ms M. But it did still have to give Ms M clear information about the policy  so she could 
decide for herself if it was right for her.
I dont know what information was given to Ms M at the meeting and it could be that 
Nationwide did not give Ms M all the information it should have done. But thats not enough 
to uphold this complaint.  I next need to decide whether or not Ms M would have changed her 
mind about  buying  the policy if she been given better  or clearer  information. 
I cant say she would  have done.  
Ref: DRN19427502Ms M was applying for the mortgage  alone. So, shed be solely  responsible for making the 
mortgage repayments, I think it is likely shed have wanted to be sure the repayments were  
covered if she couldnt work.
Ms M was eligible for the cover. And she wasnt  affected by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations contained in the terms and conditions. For instance, she has told us she had no    
pre-existing medical conditions that would not have been covered. So, Ms M would have 
been able to make a successful claim if she had needed to.
Ms Ms employer wouldve paid her sick pay for up to a year.  But this policy could have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and for up to two years. So, I still think Ms M wouldve found  
the policy useful  especially  if she couldnt work for an extended period.
Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable for Ms M so I dont think  any 
better information about the premiums would  have put her off buying the policy.  
In summary,  I think Ms M was given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy and she 
chose to take it out. And even if she was given clearer information about the policy, shed 
still have bought it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award  against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1942750