K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited dealt with her
claim following a road traffic  accident.
background
Ms Cs car was involved in a road traffic accident  on 29 August 2018  whilst parked. Ms Cs
car was taken to a garage within SGS approved network of repairers, and Ms C was
provided with a hire car. SGS instructed an engineer to assess  the damage to Ms Cs car.
The engineer assessed Ms Cs car at the garage, and it was found to have engine damage.
Ms Cs car was taken  to a car dealership  for further  investigation. An engineer from the car
dealership (engineer S) inspected Ms Cs car.
On 22 October SGS contacted their engineer asking Please can someone speak to the
dealership on this one and try and find out if the engine damage  is accident related? On the
same date their engineer  replied saying Please be advised that [car dealership]  state not
accident related  and in my opinion it is not related.
On 24 October SGS contacted the dealership to find out more  about engineer S findings. It
was recorded  proper Engineer came out to look at it and they advise potentially not accident
related//if they were  to take the head off they would  have to replace  engine.
The engineers report found the damage to Ms Cs car could be settled by way of a cash in
lieu payment. The engineers report recorded  the pre-accident value (PAV) of Ms Cs car as
£7,780. The total reserve for repairs to be carried out was £3,006.29 including  VAT. This
was equivalent  to 38.64% of the PAV.
The engineers report also found  in my opinion the damage to the engine is not related to
the claim,  on balance  of probability the belt/chain skipping  a tooth of the gear set is very
unlikely and the damage is not severe enough to cause this. The cost of repairing this
damage was not included  in the reserve for repairs.
On 2 November  SGS contacted Ms C and explained the engineers  findings.  Ms C was
unhappy with these findings,  saying  that her car was working fine before the accident so the
engine damage  mustve been caused  by the accident. Ms Cs car was returned  to her on 15
November.
On 23 November SGS  contacted the dealership, and discussed the engine damage  with the
dealership representative and engineer S. The dealership representative explained that the
issue concerning  the timing belt would be consistent  HAD  the vehicle been running  at the
time of the accident... the car was parked and unattended... he was unable  to determine
how this could have  happened and that it certainty  hasnt happened before...  [Engineer S]
also advises this isnt possible. On the same  day Ms C was told by SGS  that three separate  
professional independent  opinions had stated that the engine damage couldnt  have been 
caused by this accident.
Ms C complained to SGS  about this decision. SGS responded to Ms Cs complaint on 17
January 2019  saying  that they wouldnt  be able to include  the cost of repairs  to the engine as
accident related  because  of the opinions provided  about this damage.
Ref: DRN16048692Ms C was told in this letter that she could pay for another  independent review, performed by
an appropriately qualified  engineer They would need us to provide them  with the accident
details to ensure  only the accident circumstances are reviewed and considered.  If any
conflicting opinion  was then provided, we would be able to consider re-imbursement of costs
up to a maximum of £100 including  VAT, prior to any possible  remedial action.
On 18 January Ms C contacted SGS,  and provided details for a local garage who had
inspected her car, and found that the issue is not the timing  chain... it was the fuel cut-off
switch. Ms C provided SGS with the name and contact details for the repairer who had
inspected her car. On 4 February Ms C contacted  SGS asking for an update  about  the
garage she had provided details  for. On 23 February  Ms C asked her garage to prepare
a report about  the damage theyd found with her car.
Ms C was unhappy with SGS handling  of her claim,  and so referred  her complaint to the
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
The investigator found that SGS  shouldve done more to explain to Ms C her options when
looking for an independent engineer, and to follow-up on the information  Ms C had provided
in January 2019. Because of this the investigator recommended SGS  pay Ms C £150 for the
trouble and upset  caused by their delay  in acting on the information shed provided,  and
arrange for an independent  engineer  to inspect her car.
SGS disagreed with these  findings  saying that theyd already paid for the costs associated
with investigating  issues with why the car wouldnt start, and any further expert  opinion
would need to be paid for by Ms C, and recovered  in line with the conditions  set out in the
final response letter. SGS  said they would pay for the cost of an engineer representing SGS
to attend any inspection arranged by Ms C so that both SGS and Ms C are fairly  represented
at the independent  inspection.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 June 2020 saying that I uphold this complaint. Ms C 
provided additional comments, which Ive addressed  in this final decision. SGS didnt 
respond. I havent  seen any evidence to change my mind. So my provisional decision 
remains unchanged. This final decision should be read in conjunction  with the findings in my 
provisional decision-  a copy of which is attached to this final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C says following the provisional decision,  she instructed an independent  engineer to 
inspect her car. Ms C sent this service  a copy of the report, which she says support[s] [her] 
argument that SGS  did not do enough to try and find out why the car did not start.
It wouldnt be for this service to interpret  the engineers report, and direct SGS to take action. 
Ms C should  forward this report to SGS.  They would send it to their engineer to review,  and 
determine what impact it has on the claim. Wed expect SGS  to explain the engineers  
findings to Ms C, the impact on her claim, and her options. 
Ms C has explained  the cost of the Engineer  was considerably more than SGS offered to 
pay. I would  be grateful  for the Ombudsman  to consider directing SGS to pay for the whole 
cost of the Engineer. The final response letter from SGS set out the conditions which would 
need to be met, in order for SGS  to agree reimbursement of the cost of instructing an 
Ref: DRN16048693independent engineer. This said If any conflicting opinion was then provided,  we would be 
able to consider  re-imbursement of costs up to a maximum of £100  including  VAT prior to 
any possible  remedial action. 
I appreciate Ms C sourced an independent  engineer, and the cost amounted to more  than 
this. The provisional  decision also explained  If Ms C finds an independent expert, she can 
check the details  with SGS beforehand  to make sure its one that theyd accept for the 
purposes of any future inspection. I think there  was an opportunity to discuss the cost of 
instructing an independent  engineer before Ms C made  this decision. SGS reasonably 
explained to Ms C the basis on which  any future costs would be reimbursed. Because  of 
this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask SGS  to pay additional costs,  should 
they agree  to reimburse any costs after review  of the engineers  report.
Ms C has also explained  the car has been  further damaged whilst waiting for this case  to 
be sorted out. Would the Ombudsman please  consider directing SGS to pay for that 
damage, which would not have been sustained  if they had acted on [Ms Cs repairers] 
information I have found that SGS acted  reasonably in their decision  not to rely on the 
opinion provided  by Ms Cs local repairer. Although Ms C reasonably trusted this opinion,  it 
wasnt an opinion of an independent expert.  
Ms C feels  strongly that SGS are responsible for the further damage sustained on her car, 
but this isnt something wed direct SGS to repair. There  are several  reasons for this. This 
complaint doesnt  form part of the original complaint to SGS,  so SGS havent  had the 
opportunity to first investigate these concerns. It also wouldnt be for this service to 
determine the cause of this damage. An independent engineer would need to verify  this. So I 
wont be asking SGS  to take any further  action as part of the resolution for this complaint. 
Overall SGS couldve done more to reach  out to Ms C sooner, and tell her that the report  
provided by her repairer couldnt be used. The delay for this was around a month, and I think 
£100 is fair compensation in recognition of the upset and inconvenience  caused to Ms C. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint.
SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited should pay Ms C £100 for the reasons
explained in my findings.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16048694Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms C is unhappy  with the way SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited dealt with her
claim following a road traffic  accident.
background
Ms Cs car was involved  in a road traffic  accident  on 29 August 2018 whilst parked. Ms Cs
car was taken to a garage within SGS approved network of repairers, and Ms C was
provided with a hire car. SGS instructed  an engineer to assess  the damage to Ms Cs car.
The engineer assessed  Ms Cs car at the garage, and it was found  to have engine damage.
Ms Cs car was taken  to a car dealership for further investigation. An engineer from the car
dealership (engineer S) inspected Ms Cs car.
On 22 October SGS  contacted  their engineer asking Please can someone speak to the
dealership on this one and try and find out if the engine  damage is accident related?  On the
same date their engineer  replied saying Please be advised  that [car dealership] state not
accident related and in my opinion it is not related.
On 24 October SGS  contacted  the dealership  to find out more about engineer  S findings. It
was recorded proper Engineer came out to look at it and they advise  potentially not accident
related//if they were to take the head off they would have to replace engine.
The engineers report found the damage to Ms Cs car could be settled by way of a cash  in
lieu payment.  The engineers report recorded the pre-accident value (PAV)  of Ms Cs car as
£7,780. The total reserve for repairs to be carried out was £3,006.29 including VAT. This
was equivalent to 38.64% of the PAV.
The engineers report also found in my opinion  the damage  to the engine is not related  to
the claim, on balance of probability the belt/chain skipping a tooth of the gear set is very
unlikely and the damage is not severe enough  to cause this. The cost of repairing  this
damage was not included in the reserve for repairs.
On 2 November SGS  contacted Ms C and explained the engineers findings. Ms C was
unhappy with these findings,  saying  that her car was working fine before the accident so the
engine damage mustve  been caused by the accident. Ms Cs car was returned to her on 15
November.
On 23 November  SGS contacted the dealership, and discussed the engine damage with the
dealership representative and engineer  S. The dealership representative  explained that the
issue concerning the timing  belt would be consistent HAD  the vehicle been running at the
Ref: DRN16048695time of the accident...  the car was parked and unattended...  he was unable to determine
how this could  have happened and that it certainty hasnt  happened before... [Engineer  S]
also advises this isnt possible. On the same day Ms C was told by SGS  that three separate  
professional independent  opinions had stated  that the engine damage couldnt  have been caused by 
this accident.
Ms C complained to SGS about this decision. SGS responded to Ms Cs complaint on 17
January 2019 saying that they wouldnt be able to include the cost of repairs  to the engine as
accident related because of the opinions provided  about this damage.
Ms C was told in this letter that she could  pay for another independent  review,  performed by
an appropriately qualified engineer They would need us to provide them  with the accident
details to ensure only the accident circumstances are reviewed and considered. If any
conflicting opinion  was then provided, we would be able to consider re-imbursement of costs
up to a maximum of £100 including VAT,  prior to any possible remedial action.
On 18 January Ms C contacted SGS, and provided  details for a local garage who had
inspected her car, and found that the issue  is not the timing  chain... it was the fuel cut-off
switch. Ms C provided SGS  with the name and contact details for the repairer  who had
inspected her car. On 4 February Ms C contacted  SGS asking for an update about  the
garage she had provided details for. On 23 February Ms C asked her garage to prepare
a report  about the damage theyd found with her car.
Ms C was unhappy  with SGS handling  of her claim,  and so referred her complaint to the
Claims Management  Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
The investigator found  that SGS shouldve done more to explain to Ms C her options when
looking for an independent engineer, and to follow-up on the information Ms C had provided
in January 2019. Because of this the investigator recommended SGS pay Ms C £150 for the
trouble and upset caused by their delay in acting on the information shed  provided, and
arrange for an independent engineer to inspect her car.
SGS disagreed with these  findings saying  that theyd already paid for the costs associated
with investigating issues with why the car wouldnt start, and any further expert opinion
would need to be paid for by Ms C, and recovered in line with the conditions set out in the
final response letter. SGS  said they would pay for the cost of an engineer representing  SGS
to attend  any inspection arranged by Ms C so that both SGS and Ms C are fairly represented
at the independent inspection.
As the complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  reviewed the case, Ive reached a
different outcome to that reached by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
Ms C says They had written an amount on the report around seven and half thousand so
thats the minimum Id expect to get. The engineers report recorded the pre-accident value
of Ms Cs car as £7,780. The total reserve for repairs to be carried  out was £3,006.29
including VAT. This was equivalent to 38.64% of the pre-accident value. Wed  generally  say
repair costs would  need to exceed 60% of the pre-accident  value of a car before  being
declared a total loss, and the PAV offered  in settlement  of a claim. In this case, as the repair
costs didnt  come within this threshold, it was reasonable for Ms C to be offered cash in lieu
by way of settlement.
Ms C says that SGS initially  told her that three  independent experts said that damage to the
Ref: DRN16048696engine was not accident related, but she was later told this was only two. I think its likely
that this information did change,  but I dont think this impacted on the decision by SGS on
the claim. Ultimately,  SGS  engineer, the car dealership, and engineer S all found  that it was
more likely  than not that the damage to the engine  was not accident related.
An engineers professional opinion is generally  regarded  as an impartial and independent
view. An engineers professional duty is to the Court- not the business  instructing  them, or
the customer. Because of this, generally  wed say its fair for an accident management
company to rely on this evidence when dealing  with a claim.
SGS took reasonable steps to investigate the issues with the engine, including consulting
with the car dealership and an engineer  specialising in the make of Ms Cs car. I think  these
actions were fair, and in line with what wed expect  in the circumstances.  I can appreciate
Ms Cs disappointment when told that the cash in lieu payment wouldnt  cover damage to the
engine. This opinion was based on the independent, impartial view of the engineer. It was
also supported by two other professionals SGS  had spoken to. So I although I appreciate it
wasnt the update Ms C was hoping for, I think this information was reasonable.
In response to Ms Cs complaint, she was provided with the option to instruct an
independent engineer  of her own choosing. She was also provided with details about the
circumstances in which  the cost of this would be met by SGS. The investigator found  that
SGS shouldve provided  more information to Ms C about who shed need to instruct,  and
recommended that they find a suitable expert in resolution of the complaint.
Having considered  the information provided by SGS, I think it was clear  what  Ms C would
need to do, and where she could find an independent engineer. I dont think it would  be
reasonable to ask SGS to do this for Ms C, as this could impact on the impartiality of the
expert instructed.  In comments  to this service, Ms C herself said What Im worried  about  is if
they go to the same person... By allowing  Ms C the option  to find and instruct  her own
independent engineer,  I think  SGS acted impartially, and fairly. If Ms C finds an independent
expert, she can check the details  with SGS beforehand  to make sure its one that theyd
accept for the purposes of any future inspection.
Ms C feels strongly that everyone I tell the story to says you can tell when  a can belt is
gone, you dont need a qualified engineer . I appreciate Ms C spoke  to a garage where who
discussed their opinion on the likely cause of car not starting.  I dont doubt the repairer that
provided the report on 23 February 2019 was suitably  qualified in providing  his professional
opinion on Ms Cs car. But he wasnt an independent engineer. An instruction to an
independent engineer  usually includes  a report which confirms their independence and
impartiality, and duty to the Court.  Because  Ms Cs repairer didnt meet  these requirements, I
dont think SGS  have acted unreasonably by not accepting  their report as evidence of an
independent expert opinion.
But I do agree that SGS couldve done more to contact Ms C sooner, and explain why they
wouldnt be able to accept  a report from the garage she had provided  details for. Ms C
contacted SGS  on 18 January providing details for a local garage.  She chased this up on 4
February, but I cant see that any of these contacts were responded  to. I think if they had
been, Ms C couldve been told sooner that a report from the garage she had provided  details
for wouldnt be acceptable evidence. Because this didnt happen, Ms C asked the garage to
prepare a report for her.
The investigator recommended  SGS  pay Ms C £150  in recognition of the impact on Ms C
because of their failure to respond to her contacts on 18 January and 4 February. Ive
considered the likely  impact on Ms C. In doing so I appreciate it wouldve been frustrating
when SGS  didnt respond to the information Ms C had provided. However,  I also think that
any compensation should  take into account  that SGS didnt have a copy  of the report
produced on 23 February, until a copy was sent to this service. So the delay period  was the
Ref: DRN16048697between 18 January, until around 23 February when  SGS  shouldve received the report, and
responded.
I also think  that even if the report had been  provided  sooner, its unlikely that the complaint
wouldve been  resolved as Ms C was hoping for. Ms C says shes looking for SGS to repair
her car to make it roadworthy in resolution of her complaint. If SGS  had contacted  Ms C
sooner, its likely that she wouldve been provided with the same information  as what had
been explained in the final response  letter- a resolution she disagreed  with. Because  of this,
I think  the amount  of compensation should be £100  in recognition of SGS failure to respond
to Ms Cs contacts.  This reflects the period of delay, of around one month, and also the likely
limited impact on the resolution of the complaint  if SGS  had acted more  promptly.
The investigator explained that If it is found the car not starting is an issue that was caused
by the accident, SGS  should  ensure [Ms C] is paid the pre accident. Its not for this service
to determine at this time whether Ms C should be paid the PAV,  or an additional  cash in lieu
payment- the engineer is best placed to make this decision. If Ms C chooses to instruct an
independent engineer,  a copy of this report would be sent to SGS engineer to review, and
determine what  impact  it has on the claim. Wed expect SGS to explain the engineers
findings to Ms C, the impact on her claim,  and her options.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  provided my provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited should pay Ms C £100 for the reasons
explained in my findings.
Ref: DRN1604869