K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs L payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  St Andrews  didnt actually  sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for it, so Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in January 2006 to cover a 
mortgage which had started in December 2003.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Ls comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened over 13 years  ago 
when the PPI started. But I can see from the evidence  that the PPI was taken actually 
roughly two years after the mortgage  started.  So this means Mr and Mrs L would have 
known they didnt have to take the PPI to get the mortgage.  And I think the acceptance  
form with direct  debit mandate, which Mrs L signed  in January 2006, doesnt  suggest 
the PPI was compulsory.  So I think,  at the time,  its likely Mr and Mrs L knew they had a 
choice and they decided to take the PPI. 
St Andrews didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs L as being  particularly suited  to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. 
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs L would have 
understood how much it would  cost. 
Its possible St Andrews didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have been affected by any of these. Its likely  they 
were eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying  for it monthly,  so they could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN16509262Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1650926