K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from PSA 
Finance UK Limited.
background
In November 2017 Mr E was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with PSA.
Mr E experienced issues with the clutch. The car was returned  to the dealership  in January 
2018 and the clutch was replaced under warranty.
Mr E subsequently experienced issues with the car losing electrical  power. He returned  the 
car to the dealership but no fault was found.
In April 2018 the car was returned  to the dealership because the windscreen washer jets 
werent working. The dealership replaced a fuse at no cost to Mr E.
Next, Mr E began to experience issues with the engine  losing  power. The car was returned  
to the dealership in May 2018 but no fault was found. Following this, the engine  
management light illuminated. A third party known to Mr E carried out a diagnostic  and found 
a fault code relating to reduced  power  output  and unusual sounds form the engine, 
suggesting a fault with the turbo.
The car was returned to the dealership in June 2018. The dealership offered to replace the 
turbo but asked Mr E to contribute 20% of the cost of repairs.  Mr E wasnt  happy  to do this. 
He left the car at the dealership and complained to PSA and asked to reject the car.
In its final response PSA said it didnt uphold the complaint because  the dealership had the 
right to try and repair the car and Mr E hadnt allowed this.
Mr E wasnt  happy with PSAs response  and complained to this service.
During the investigation by this service, Mr E arranged  an inspection of the car to determine 
whether a fault was present. The inspection was carried out by an alternative Vauxhall  
dealership in February 2109. The inspection found a fault code and diagnosed a fault with 
the bypass valve.
A further  independent inspection of the car was carried out by the RAC. PSA agreed to pay 
for this. The inspection found a fault code relating to the turbo and, following a test drive,  
found that there was a general  lack of power/performance. The engineer recommended  
further investigation.
The investigator said that Mr E should be allowed to reject the car on durability grounds.  She 
said she wouldnt expect a car which had covered only 22,800  miles to have issues with a 
loss of power. 
PSA Finance said it didnt agree with the investigators view but it would accept it on the 
basis that it took the car back,  sold it at auction and set the sales  proceeds  against  the 
amount outstanding under the agreement.
Ref: DRN10105552The investigator said this wasnt in accordance with the rejection she had recommended. 
PSA Finance has asked me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because PSA Finance has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. In order tom uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Under the relevant legislation, if a fault occurs within the first 6 months, its presumed  to have 
been present  at the point  of supply and its generally  up to the business  to put things right.  
After 6 months its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point  of 
supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not a car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. In this case,  both reports have identified fault codes relating to 
the turbo.  The second report by the RAC also found the car to be lacking in performance and 
said the fault code related to turbo boost pressure which  could be impacting on the cars 
performance.
Although neither of the expert reports say whether the fault was likely to have been present 
at the point of supply,  Im of the view that the car isnt of satisfactory  quality. I dont think  that 
a reasonable person would expect  to experience loss of power/performance issues relating 
to the turbo in a car which has only covered approximately 22,000  miles.  Under  the relevant 
legislation, durability is a key aspect of satisfactory quality. In this case  I dont think  the 
engine is durable.  
The car has already  been returned to the dealership with a reported  turbo  fault. Under the 
relevant legislation, the business has to be given one opportunity  to repair  the car. If the 
repair isnt successful the consumer can reject the car. In this case, the dealership said it 
would repair the car but only if Mr E contributed 20%. This isnt in accordance  with the 
businesses obligations  under the relevant legislation.  The repairs  should be free of charge. I 
cant say that Mr E has acted unreasonably in refusing  the repair. In this case, Im 
persuaded that the dealership have had the opportunity to offer to repair the car but failed to 
offer the repair in accordance with relevant legislation.
For the reasons  Ive given Im satisfied that Mr E should be allowed to reject  the car.
PSA has said that the agreement has fallen into arrears and it wants  this to be taken into 
consideration. I can see that arrears started  to build up when  Mr E returned the car to the 
dealership in June 2018. Whilst I accept that Mr E hasnt made any payments since  that 
time, he hasnt used the car either because of the fault. If Mr E had continued to make 
payments on a faulty car which he was unable  to use, Id be asking PSA to refund  these  
payments. So in the circumstances,  I dont think it would be fair for PSA to sell the car and 
offset the sales proceeds against the arrears.
Ref: DRN10105553my final decision
My final decision is that PSA Finance UK Limited  must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr E.
Refund the deposit paid by Mr E in full together with 8% simple  interest  per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Waive any instalments due under the agreement from June 2018 onwards
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file
Pay compensation of £250 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1010555