K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  a cash withdrawal they made  at two Santander UK Plc 
branches. Mrs J says money was missing and she only discovered this when attempting  to 
pay the money back into the account.
background
In October  2017, Mr and Mrs J withdrew money from two different Santander branches.  
They say the money  wasnt counted out in front of them but they were given sealed bags.
Mrs J said when they returned home, the money was kept in a safe place which  nobody  
knew about. And her and Mr J lived alone so nobody else had access  to the money or knew 
it was there.
In July 2018, Mrs J went  back to one of the branches to pay in £3,000. She was using three 
of the sealed bags  to redeposit which she and Mr J hadnt used. While in branch, the 
Santander cashier counted the money.  There was only £2,840 in total  so £160  was 
missing.
Mrs J didnt understand what had happened so Santander reviewed things. They found on 
the days when  Mr and Mrs J originally  withdrew the money, both branches didnt have any 
till discrepancies. So they were  satisfied the correct  amount was given to Mr and Mrs J at the 
time. The branch  also thought one of the bags had been cut at the end  and therefore, 
likely opened.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. The investigator 
who looked at things didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. She was satisfied Santanders  
tills balanced on the day Mr and Mrs J withdrew  the money and therefore couldnt fairly say 
Santander had done anything wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ive explained further below.
I appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs J feel about  this complaint. Our rules  require me to 
determine a complaint by considering all of the evidence from both parties in order to decide 
whats fair in all of the circumstances. Where the available evidence is contradictory, 
incomplete, or even  missing altogether, I have to reach my conclusions on the basis  of what  
is more likely to have  happened on the balance of probabilities.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs J have said that the money  they withdrew from the two 
branches wasnt counted out in front of them but it was given to them in five separate  sealed 
envelopes. Santander has explained that when customers withdraw a large amount of 
money, theyre offered to have the money counted  to them over the counter, or accept the 
money has been counted by two cashiers,  weighed, signed and put into sealed  bags.
While I dont know exactly what happened in both branches in October  2017,  I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs J chose  the second option. I say that because they have 
confirmed the money  wasnt counted in front of them,  but they did receive it in sealed  bags.
Ref: DRN17134222Santander has provided screenshots to show that their tills from both branches balanced 
correctly on the days  Mr and Mrs J withdrew the money. If Mr and Mrs J were given less 
money than the amount they withdrew, I would  expect  at least  one of the tills to show  a 
discrepancy. So based on the available  evidence, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs J did 
receive the correct  amount of money in the sealed  bags.
Mr and Mrs J have asked that we look at CCTV evidence to show what  happened.  There 
isnt CCTV evidence available, and even if it was, I dont think  it would have made  an overall  
difference to the outcome of their complaint anyway. I say that because  its not in dispute 
whether Mr and Mrs J were in the branch to withdraw the money.  Whats  in dispute is the 
amount handed  to Mr and Mrs J in the sealed  bags. And CCTV wont  be able to confirm that. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J say they didnt  use the money and it was kept in a safe place. 
Theyve also said they live alone so nobody  else would have had access to the bags. If what  
Mr and Mrs J told us was the only evidence we have available,  I could potentially uphold 
their complaint in the absence of any contradictory evidence. But Santander have provided 
enough in the form of till balances and explanations of their processes  to contradict what 
Mr and Mrs J have said. So, on the balance  of probabilities, I think  it is more  likely Santander 
gave Mr and Mrs J the correct amount when they withdrew the money. It may then be that 
Mr and Mrs J did use the money,  and cannot  remember doing  so. Or somebody else had 
access to the sealed  bags   and took some  money out by cutting the bags,  and then 
replaced them back into the safe place  without Mr and Mrs J knowing.
Its clear Mr and Mrs J are very disappointed by whats happened  and I dont doubt this 
had been a stressful time for them. Im also sorry to hear of Mr Js ill health.  But, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I cant safely say Santander did anything  wrong.  So I cant  
uphold their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1713422