K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the survey carried out on their house  on behalf of Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Mr and Mrs H want Halifax to cover  the full costs of any 
repairs required to be done.
background
Mr and Mrs H were buying a property and asked for a survey  to be done. Mr and Mrs H 
moved into the property  and alerted  Halifax that there was evidence  of subsidence found 
which they believe should have been  identified in the survey  and so they arranged to monitor 
the situation. Mr and Mrs H when they moved  in removed panelling from the walls and 
carpet from the floor which revealed  some cracks, and the entrance hall floor to have risen  
and the reception  room  floor to have dropped and cracked.
Halifax said that the cracks to the walls at in the reception room wouldnt have been visible 
with the panelling although  there  was a thin horizontal crack to the reception room/hall wall 
including the WC wall which it didnt regard as unusual. Halifax  did believe that the uneven 
floors should  have been mentioned in the report. Mr and Mrs H had a report prepared  by a 
structural engineer  and presented it to Halifax.
Halifax responded to the complaint to say that the type of survey commissioned by Mr and 
Mrs H was intended to point out in a concise format the main issues apparent at the time of 
inspection with advice  and recommendations if any. Halifax believed that the surveyor  had 
brought attention to the problem of some typical shrinkage cracking  on the walls.  Whist it 
said that the floor covering prevented a detailed inspection of the floors  it accepted  that it 
should have told Mr and Mrs H to obtain  further advice to determine  the cause So, it agreed 
to cover the costs of remedying this issue and the cost of the engineer and to pay Mr and 
Mrs H £500 for their upset. Our investigator  believed this was a fair offer and didnt require 
Halifax to do anything  more. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H were buying a house  and commissioned  a survey to assist  them  in their 
decision so they would  know exactly what they were  buying. The type of survey they 
commissioned whilst not a full building survey was intended to alert them on the basis  of 
what the surveyor saw as to whether they needed  to do any further investigations  before 
buying the house. The surveyor  does  seem to have brought Mr and Mrs Hs attention to 
shrinkage cracks that should be cut out and fixed and that there would be a cost to that. I 
understand that there were  more cracks  to the walls behind the panelling but the surveyor 
indicated that in this type of survey there was only a visual inspection. The structural  
engineer employed  by Mr and Mrs H would appear  to have confirmed that the cracking that 
appears in the internal walls was created by thermal movement and that remedial worked 
could be carried out by crack stitching and replastering. There is no suggestion of anything 
more sinister in that report and Mr and Mrs H were  fairly warned in the Halifax report that 
they would  have to attend to shrinkage  cracks  in the internal walls.
Ref: DRN11786712But Mr and Mrs H werent alerted to an issue with the uneven floors  to the entrance  hall and 
small reception room. Halifax accepts that it should have told Mr and Mrs H to get further  
advice to determine its cause. In the event Mr and Mrs H have  got further advice from an 
engineer and Halifax has offered to pay for that monitoring and advice and the reasonable 
costs of remedying the defect as suggested  by the engineer including  the cost of removal  
and reinstatement of skirtings  to those areas. That, together with the compensation offered 
of £500 I consider to be a reasonable solution to this complaint. I will leave Mr and Mrs H to 
deal directly with Halifax  if they wish to accept its offer but I dont  require Halifax to do 
anything further  and so I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1178671