K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about advice given  by HDIFA (then  part of Berkshire  Financial Advisers
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of her deferred benefits  in a former employer's  pension scheme to
a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  to invest in an unregulated investment.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Mrs P had been referred to an unregulated introducer and had discussed using her pension  
to invest in carbon  credits.  The introducer  referred  her to a regulated business (an appointed 
representative of a network) who Ill call Firm A.  Mrs Ps pension  arrangements included  
deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit pension scheme. Firm A didnt have 
the necessary  permissions to advise and referred  Mrs P to HDIFA. 
The documents Ive seen  include  Firm As letter to Mrs P dated 21 December 2011.  It said 
Firm A was unable to advise and would be referring  the matter  to HDIFA. It went on to say 
Firm A wouldnt  have any part in the advice about transferring or any involvement in the 
investments which  would be Mrs Ps own choice.  The letter  enclosed  a document  for Mrs P 
to sign to confirm she understood the process  and Firm As involvement. 
Theres a letter dated 9 January 2012  on Firm As notepaper which  Mrs P signed saying, 
amongst other things,  she understood her details had been  passed to HDIFA and that Firm 
A wouldnt be able to advise about how her pension would be invested and shed be making 
her own decisions about that. 
Ive seen a pension review questionnaire  (PRQ) which sets out some details of Mrs Ps 
circumstances and finances, although she declined to provide all the information requested. 
HDIFAs recommendation letter dated 13 January 2012 said Mrs P should transfer the 
benefits shed  accrued  in her former employers pension scheme to a SIPP  with a named 
provider. Mrs P had been a member of her former  employers final salary scheme between 
1985 and 1991 and its defined contribution  arrangement between 1998  and 2003.  This 
represented all of her pension provision.
There are emails between HDIFA and the unregulated introducer  about the documents that 
needed to be signed and returned to complete the transfer. 
A total of £41,283.55 was transferred  to the SIPP. Of that £34,996  was invested in carbon 
credits. £2,500  was deducted  as an IFA fee. Firm A got £500 from that for the introduction. 
Mrs P received a cash payment of £13,998.40 on 6 March 2012.
Mrs P later complained that shed been  given unsuitable advice by HDIFA. It didnt  uphold  
the complaint.  Mrs Ps representative  referred it to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. 
Meyado didnt accept  what  the adjudicator said. Its legal representatives main points were:    
Our analysis of the facts was flawed.  Wed wrongly dismissed the involvement of 
another regulated business, Firm A, and what Mrs P had said at the time about her 
attitude to, and her ability  to withstand,  risk. She signed the PRQ  on 24 November 2011 
Ref: DRN15966882and confirmed she understood  the information  she gave would form the basis  of 
HDIFAs advice. HDIFA was entitled  to rely on that. She was asked to say if anything 
was inaccurate,  incomplete or needed clarification. She didnt and she cant  now 
challenge what was recorded. 
Mrs P had buy to let income. She didnt want to say how much  but it seems  it was 
£1,400 a month.  That income and the (appreciating) capital value of the property is 
relevant to her attitude to risk and the level of risk she could afford to take. As is her 
husbands income and the fact that he had multiple pensions.
She was concerned about  the security of her former employers pension  scheme  which 
had a large (£57 million)  deficit. 
She was confident in relation to investment risk and her attitude to risk was medium  
high. She was a reasonably adventurous investor and happy to accept a high degree  of 
risk in return  for the possibility of a higher pension. 
Wed dismissed Firm As involvement.  HDIFA understood  Firm A (a regulated entity)  
would advise  on and deal with the underlying  investment.  Once the SIPP had been 
arranged (and that was the limit of HDIFAs involvement)  the funds would initially  be held 
in cash. Mrs P would  then deal with Firm A about  the investment. HDIFA was entitled to 
rely on its unchallenged understanding that Firm A would advise on the investment. 
Wed made no enquiries of Firm A. Wed failed it investigate its role and the advice it 
gave. We hadnt  asked it to disclose what documents  it had. 
HDIFA was simply arranging the transfer  (because Firm A didnt have the necessary 
permissions). It wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when, on advice  
from another party, the money transferred was invested  in carbon credits.  Thats 
irrational and ignores causations issues. It leaves  Firm A, who gave the advice to invest 
in carbon credits, without any liability. HDIFA had no control over, but is being  blamed 
for, Mrs Ps investment decisions. 
The complaint was referred  to me. I issued a provisional decision on 11 July 2019.
my provisional decision dated  11 July 2019
 
I upheld the complaint. My main findings  were:
HDIFA had to advise on the overall  transaction, including the proposed underlying  
investment. To determine if the transfer  to a SIPP was suitable, HDIFA needed to 
consider the suitability  of the proposed investment. I referred to the then regulators alert 
issued in January 2013.
I referred to COBS  19.1.6G. HDIFA should  have  started by assuming the transfer of 
Mrs Ps deferred benefits  in a former  employers  pension scheme  wouldnt be suitable. 
The benefits Mrs P had accrued in her former  employers pension scheme represented 
her entire  pension  provision. As the adjudicator noted,  Meyado determined  a critical 
yield of 9.2% pa was required to match benefits from the final salary scheme. But this 
made no allowance  for charges or commission. So the rowth needed just to match  the 
benefits being given up was understated. For the defined  contribution arrangement 
Meyado suggested the available tax free cash at retirement might be £2,469.09  more.  
Its unclear how these figures  were determined, or what  (if any) allowance was made  for 
charges and commission.
There was a deficit in funding for the final salary  scheme. That was being  addressed  
with the employer paying  special contributions.  The transfer  wasnt driven  by concerns 
about the solvency  of the scheme. 
Ref: DRN15966883The intended investment wasnt suitable  for Mrs P. Meyado should have known carbon 
credits were very high risk and likely to be suitable for only a few sophisticated investors 
and even then probably not for an investors  entire fund and especially  where,  as here,  
that was modest.
Suitable advice would have been  not to transfer.  Thats true for the defined  contribution  
benefits too  Mrs P only transferred  those  so she could  invest  in carbon credits  which  
wasnt a suitable  investment  for her.
Even if HDIFA understood shed be getting  advice  about the investment elsewhere, 
HDIFA had a responsibility to consider it. If HDIFA had explained fully the risks and 
advised Mrs P against transferring to invest in carbon credits, I thought shed have 
reconsidered. Shed  been referred  to HDIFA for specialist  pension  advice and in my 
view shed have placed significant weight on what HDIFA  had said.  
I acknowledged  HDIFA wasnt the only party involved. Firm A was a regulated  business,  
as was the SIPP provider. I recognised the involvement  of others may have impacted on 
what happened  and that was a factor in deciding who was responsible for Mrs Ps 
losses. But the complaint had been  made against  HDIFA and Id concentrated on what it 
did (or didnt do).
HDIFAs role was instrumental:  If the transfers (which HDIFA recommended)  hadnt 
happened and the SIPP hadnt been  set up, Mrs P wouldnt have been in a position to 
invest in carbon credits. 
Firm A had introduced Mrs P to HDIFA. It was up to HDIFA to give her suitable (and 
complete) advice.  Even if Firm A (or another party) had advised to Mrs P to invest  in 
carbon credits (and Mrs Ps representative had made  a subject access  request to Firm 
A which  hadnt produced anything to show Firm A gave  advice) she wouldnt have been 
able to invest  if she hadnt transferred on advice from HDIFA. So her losses had arisen 
directly from HDIFAs unsuitable advice. If HDIFA considered other  parties were 
responsible for some  or all of Mrs Ps losses, it was open to HDIFA to pursue  those  
other parties.
HDIFA wasnt simply arranging the transfer. HDIFA had advised  Mrs P to transfer. If 
that advice was unsuitable,  I didnt  see why HDIFA shouldnt be responsible for the 
losses Mrs P had suffered  in consequence  of that unsuitable advice. That wasnt wrong 
in law or irrational. Rather  it reflected the facts of the case  and HDIFAs pivotal part in 
the matter: HDIFA gave unsuitable  advice  and facilitated the transfer.  
I didnt agree HDIFA had no control  over but was being blamed for Mrs Ps investment 
decisions. Shed been referred to HDIFA for specialist advice about whether she should  
give up valuable  deferred defined benefits and invest in a high risk, speculative  investment. 
HDIFA gave her unsuitable advice and is responsible  for the consequences  of that. 
I set out how Meyado should  redress Mrs P. Amongst  other  things I said Meyado should 
make an allowance for the lump sum Mrs P was paid by applying  a withdrawal of 
£6,299.28 from the calculation  on the date she received  the payment. That figure 
represented the value of the lump sum, net of the unauthorised payment charge shed 
be liable to pay of 55% (£13,998.40 less 55%).
We later told Mrs P I was considering adjusting that. It was uncertain whether shed face an 
unauthorised payment  charge and, if so, the amount. So I thought  it would be fairer to say 
the full amount of the payment should  be taken into account with Meyado to give an 
undertaking to meet  any unauthorised payment charge that may,  in the future, arise. 
Ref: DRN15966884In response Mrs P made  two points. First, Meyado should meet the costs of drafting the 
undertaking. Secondly she was concerned as to what would happen if Meyado ceased 
trading (and so wasnt in a position  to meet the terms of any undertaking) by the time she 
received any notification about  an unauthorised payment charge. She said the proposed 
change to the redress wasnt fair or reasonable.
Meyado didnt accept  what  Id said in my provisional  decision. Its legal representative made  
further representations. We asked Mrs P for some more information  about what had 
happened. We shared the further information  she provided (aside from her bank statements) 
with Meyado. I then wrote  to the parties  on 6 December 2019.
my letter of 6 December 2019
I summarised the parties further comments and the further enquiries wed made  of Mrs P, 
what shed told us and what  Meyado  had said about  that. Ive summarised  those sections of 
my letter below. I then went on to makes some  further provisional findings which Ive more  or 
less set out full (although Ive anonymised the parties).  
Meyados comments on my provisional decision
Mrs Ps decision to transfer was made with assistance or advice from a number of 
entities, not just HDIFA. Id continued to ignore the material involvement of others. I 
hadnt considered what  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and my 
decision was irrational.  
In particular Id been unwilling to look into the relationship between Mrs P and Firm A 
 whod advised her to invest  in the investment which  is at the heart  of her complaint. 
That suggests, where multiple entities are involved (regulated or otherwise) well 
ignore all but the one at which the complaint  is directed  and hold it liable, irrespective 
of where responsibility  properly lies. 
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Key documents and evidence from Firm A 
havent been made available  and had impaired Meyados  ability to defend itself. Our 
enquiries are at best incomplete. What Id said about knowing what  Firm A did  
introducing Mrs P to Meyado  suggested a wilfully  simplified  approach. 
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation, based on the assumption that, 
without HDIFAs involvement, the investments and Mrs Ps losses wouldnt have 
happened. But shed already been  advised  about and had decided on the 
investments which are the primary cause of her losses. 
Mrs P held herself out as an experienced investor. But wed assumed she was a 
wholly inexperienced retail investor.  Thats  contrary to how she described herself and 
her investment profile.  Its irrational and ignores relevant evidence in favour of 
assumptions. 
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision. 
Mrs P had made it clear that she wanted  higher returns than a traditional  pension would 
provide. She had significant experience in property investment and she was interested 
in carbon credits as a possible investment. My finding that she didnt have reasons of 
her own for wanting to invest  was contrary to the evidence. 
Id ignored the fact that HDIFA took care to remind  Mrs P she needed to take advice 
from Firm A about any investments she wanted  to make.  HDIFA made sure her initial 
investment was in cash. That protected it and gave Mrs P time to properly consider her 
investment on the basis of the advice HDIFA reasonably  believed  shed seek.  
Ref: DRN15966885The alert dealt  with unregulated introducers which  wasnt  the situation here. 
Id said what other parties did or didnt do may have impacted on what happened.  But Id 
then failed,  without  justification, to take that into account. My failure to engage with Firm 
As role undermined  my decision. 
What Id said about Mrs Ps complaint  having been made against HDIFA amounts to a 
refusal to consider  all the circumstances. And my comment,  about knowing what  Firm A had 
done, understated  and misrepresented that firms role and renders the decision irrational. 
In conclusion  my provisional decision  was flawed and premature.  Id failed to properly 
appreciate the causation and reliance issues. It was unfair  to place the entire 
responsibility for Mrs Ps losses  on Meyado and didnt meet our obligations under the 
Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA). 
We shared what Meyado  had said with Mrs P. In summary her representative said:
Meyado hadnt raised any new issues or provided  any additional information which I 
hadnt already considered.
It wasnt the case that Id ignored  the involvement  of other entities. I had dealt with Firm 
As role. But there was no relationship  between  Mrs P and Firm A  the only document 
the subject access  request  had produced was Mrs Ps signed authority for her details to 
be passed  to HDIFA as Firm A didnt have the necessary permissions to advise her. 
If Mrs P hadnt been advised to transfer and had left her pension where it was shed 
never have made the carbon credits investment. HDIFAs advice  had directly  caused 
her losses. 
She didnt hold herself  out as a sophisticated investor and it was an overstatement to 
say she had significant experience in property investment.  She didnt have  any real 
investment experience  and certainly not of high risk or alternative  investments.   
our further  enquiries
We already knew Mrs P had received an incentive payment of £13,998.40. Our adjudicator, 
before issuing his view,  had asked about it. Mrs P said shed been introduced by the father 
of her daughters friend to someone  who worked for an unregulated  company selling carbon 
credits. Mrs P met the unregulated introducer  a number of times. He persuaded her that her 
existing pension wouldnt be worth  very much. He said carbon credits were  the way forward, 
government backed  and would help improve her retirement. Mrs P was told she could take 
part of her pension  as a tax free lump  sum.  The introducer arranged everything.  He told her 
what and where to sign. She didnt really study  the information but trusted that everything 
was in order. The introducer referred her to Firm A. 
But it wasnt  able to deal with the transfer and referred her to HDIFA. Firm A wrote to her on 
21 December 2011 saying her case would be referred to HDIFA. Firm A said it acted as an 
introducing firm to HDIFA and didnt play any part in the advice about the transfer of Mrs Ps 
pension or have any involvement in the investment assets that she wished to purchase and 
that these would be entirely  her choice and could be discussed  with the introducer. Firm A 
asked Mrs P to sign the enclosed document to confirm she understood the process and Firm 
As involvement. 
The document (which  Mrs P signed  on 9 January 2012)  reflected  that and confirmed her 
details had been passed to HDIFA as Firm A didnt hold the necessary permissions to 
undertake that type of business;  Firm A wasnt involved with or responsible for advice given 
about the transfer and wasnt able to advise or make recommendations around the 
underlying assets  that Mrs P chose to purchase; once HDIFA had completed  its advice  it 
Ref: DRN15966886was down to Mrs P to make her own choices as to she invested the money; she could 
discuss that with her agent but Firm A would be unable to offer its advice. 
In response to our further enquiries  Mrs P said shed been  discussing pensions with 
someone she knew at school whod referred her to the unregulated introducer. Moving her 
pension wasnt something she was actively looking to do at the time. The introducer  had told 
her she was entitled to a tax free payment for transferring  and investing  in carbon credits.  
The exact amount  wasnt  discussed. She just knew she was entitled to a payment and the 
balance would be invested in carbon credits. She wasnt  aware of any discussions about the 
payment with HDIFA. She hadnt  needed the money  for anything in particular.  She wasnt in 
financial difficulties at the time. The payment hadnt been used to clear any existing liabilities 
or debts  but had been used for general  household  expenses over an extended  period.
We shared our further enquiries and what Mrs P had said with Meyado. It said Mrs Ps 
evidence was that her conversations  about  the tax free incentive  payments had only been 
with the introducer, not HDIFA. Shed unquestioningly accepted the information  he gave her. 
Her material dealings  were with him and/or Firm A, not HDIFA. We hadnt  properly 
investigated Firm As role and we hadnt  given  any or any proper consideration to the 
material involvement of other  parties  such as the introducer. 
The incentive payment Mrs P received  was powerful  evidence  shed have  gone  ahead with 
the transfer in reliance  on information or advice given by the unregulated introducer and/or 
Firm A and/or to benefit from the incentive  payment and irrespective of any advice to the 
contrary. Meyado  said Mrs P should  disclose further evidence, including  copies of her bank 
statements, showing her financial position at the time and evidence as to how the incentive  
payment was used.  Meyado maintained it was incorrect to target it with full responsibility for 
Mrs Ps losses. 
my further provisional findings
DISP 3.6.1R requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to what  is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. I agree that the involvement of
other parties  is a relevant  factor.
There are specific  DISP  rules which might apply where more than one party  is involved:
DISP 3.5.2R says that I may inform the complainant that it might be appropriate to complain 
against some other respondent.  DISP 3.5.3R says that where  two or more complaints from 
one complainant relate to connected  circumstances,  I may investigate  them  together, but will 
issue separate provisional assessments  and determinations in respect of each respondent. 
And DISP  3.6.3G says that where  a complainant makes complaints against more  than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the ombudsman may determine  that the 
respondents must contribute  towards  the overall award  in the proportion that the 
ombudsman considers appropriate.  Ive borne all those provisions in mind.
It isnt the case that because Mrs Ps complaint has been made against Meyado I havent  
considered the involvement of others.  Or that we wont consider whether any other  party 
might have some responsibility in the matter where the complaint has been  made  about  
another party. But that doesnt mean that a conclusion that, despite  the involvement  of other 
(regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld against the party complained  about  and 
that party should meet the consumers losses  in full, must be unfair  or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN15966887I agree  with Meyado that liability and causation is determined  by factual and legal 
considerations rather than which party a complainant  may think  is responsible and names
as the respondent to the complaint. As Meyado has said, a complainant may not recall  who 
they dealt with, which party did what,  and what a particular entitys regulatory and legal 
obligations were.
Against that background and taking into account  the further information weve obtained  Ive
considered again Meyados main point  - the involvement of other parties and, in particular,
the introducer for the investment and Firm A. 
Mrs P says she wasnt looking  to move her pension  or invest as she did. She was put in 
touch with the unregulated introducer  for the carbon credits investment either  by an old 
friend or the father of her daughters friend.  I dont  think  much turns on exactly  which  it was 
or that the small discrepancy should cast doubt  generally on what  Mrs P recalls. The point is 
that shed been put in touch with the introducer  who, it seems,  suggested she invest in 
carbon credits via her pension.
I dont know exactly what the introducer  said. According to Mrs P he told her that there was 
better growth potential. Advising on investments is a regulated activity under article 53(1)  of 
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (SI 2001/544) 
(RAO). The definition includes advice  on the merits of an investor (or potential investor)  
buying, selling,  subscribing for, exchanging, redeeming, holding  or underwriting  a particular  
investment. Its possible that in any conversations  with Mrs P about  the investment  what  he 
said amounted to investment advice. If it did, hed be in breach of section 19 of FSMA. 
But, even  if that was the case, the introducer knew any investment would be made  out of 
funds transferred from Mrs Ps pension  so he referred her to Firm A for advice. But, because 
Mrs P had deferred benefits in a final salary occupational scheme, Firm A couldnt  advise  
and so referred Mrs P to HDIFA.
Meyado has highlighted, more than once, what I said about Firm A having introduced Mrs P 
to HDIFA. I dont think its helpful, or representative of my provisional decision overall, to 
take a single sentence,  out of context, as indicating that Id ignored  the role played by others.
From what  Ive seen Firm A didnt take any further part in the matter. The letter  that Mrs P 
signed on 9 January 2012 set out that Firm A would be taking no further  part in the matter.  
And Mrs P accepted  that Firm A wouldnt be giving advice about how her pension fund 
should be invested and that shed be making her own decisions about that.
And Ive seen that HDIFA communicated directly with the introducer about progress of the 
transfer. For example,  HDIFA emailed  the introducer  on 13 January 2012 asking him to make  
sure Mrs P sent the signed discharge forms direct to her former employers scheme as soon 
as possible to meet the transfer value  guarantee deadline (the letter said 20 January 2011 
which I assume should have read 2012). Further telephone calls and emails were  exchanged 
between HDIFA and the introducer.  So that supports Firm A not being further involved.
And the documentation  supplied by the SIPP provider doesnt indicate that Firm A was 
involved. The SIPP application showed  HDIFA as Mrs Ps advisers.  But Mrs P gave the 
instruction to invest in carbon credits  herself  - Ive seen  her (undated) letter to the SIPP  
provider in which she confirms it is her express  wish to invest  the sum of £34,996 from the 
funds held in her SIPP in the carbon credits investment.
Ref: DRN15966888I note HDIFAs  letter  of 7 December 2011  to Mrs P refers to recent meetings with Firm As 
adviser. From what Ive seen in other  cases, Firm A undertook some  initial  information
gathering. The arrangement appears to have  been  that Firm A would complete a fact find 
and research the consumers existing pension  arrangements. The information would be
submitted to HDIFA and used, together with any additional details obtained by HDIFA, to
prepare the recommendation report.  Firm A may also have verified the consumers identity.
Firm A also received a fee for introducing Mrs P to HDIFA  from the total of £41,283.55 
transferred to the SIPP provider, £34,996  was invested in the carbon credits  investment and 
£2,500 was deducted as an IFA fee with Firm A receiving £500  for the introduction.
It was up to HDIFA to give suitable  advice. As I explained in my provisional  decision,
HDIFAs advice should have taken into account  the proposed underlying investment. It
wasnt open to HDIFA to seek to limit its advice to the SIPP wrapper and not consider the
underlying investments. Where a consumer seeks advice on a pension transfer, 
consideration has to be given  to the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper 
(here the SIPP) and the expected underlying investment  here a high risk, illiquid  
unregulated investment  which is the type of investment mentioned in the regulators alert.  I
acknowledged, in my provisional decision, that the alert was aimed at business  which  
involved an unregulated  introducer and that Meyado might argue that HDIFAs position was
different as the referral had come  from another regulated firm. But my view remains that,
regardless of the source  of the business, it wasnt open to HDIFA to seek  to limit its advice
to the SIPP  wrapper.
Its also the case that, by the time the carbon credits investment came to be made, HDIFA
had completed its work: it had recommended  the transfers, set up the SIPP  and arranged
for the transfer  values to be paid into the SIPP where the funds  were  held in cash. And
HDIFA didnt give the instruction  for the investment to be purchased: Mrs P did that herself.  
But I dont think that changes things. HDIFA had to consider the proposed investment as 
part of the transfer advice.  And HDIFA knew from the outset that the transfer  was to allow
Mrs P to invest  in carbon  credits.  It isnt the case that Mrs P, contrary to HDIFAs 
expectations, invested differently.
I think the advice  should have been  not to transfer.  Recommending that Mrs P transfer   and 
give up virtually guaranteed  benefits in her in former employers scheme  to invest  in a high 
risk, unregulated scheme - was unsuitable.  Even  if the proposed underlying  investment had 
been different  it would still have been  difficult to justify the transfer. As I said in my 
provisional decision the starting  point under COBS 19.1.6G is that transferring wont be 
suitable. And I dont  think Meyado seeks to argue that its advice was suitable.  Rather  its 
position is that due to the involvement of other  entities it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
hold it responsible for Mrs Ps losses in full. 
I can see an argument that Mrs Ps losses stem mainly from the failure of the investment. 
And, given  that the funds transferred were initially held in cash, no loss had resulted by the 
time HDIFAs role ceased. But I think that ignores the bigger picture. As Ive said,  HDIFA 
knew that, ultimately, the proposed investment was in carbon credits. And the money was 
only available to invest because HDIFA had recommended the transfers and facilitated them. 
Mrs P may have signed  documentation acknowledging that the choice of investment was 
down to her (and possibly  the unregulated introducer). But, as already discussed, HDIFA 
had a responsibility to consider the investment  too. I dont think  signing the declaration  
absolves HDIFA from that. 
Ref: DRN15966889Ive also considered very carefully all Meyado says about why Mrs P would have gone 
ahead anyway even  if HDIFA had advised  her against.
Where theres a dispute about what happened  (or what might  have  happened  if something
different had been done) I have  to decide, on the balance of probabilities  and taking into 
account such evidence  as is available, what the likely outcome would have been.  The weight 
I attach to particular  evidence is a matter for me. Meyado may not agree with my findings. 
But that doesnt mean what Ive said is irrational or that Ive failed to take into account  
relevant information  or evidence or that Ive based  my decision on irrelevant factors.
Meyado says Mrs P had already  been  advised about and had decided to make the
investment which  is (and not the SIPP wrapper) the primary cause of her losses.  But, even
if that is the case, I dont think it must  follow  that shed have gone ahead anyway. I think  if
shed been given suitable advice  that she shouldnt transfer and invest  as she planned 
its likely  that would  have  made her think again.  
From what  Ive seen, Mrs Ps initial dealings were  with an unregulated introducer. She says 
she trusted him. And he was no doubt  persuasive. But Mrs P hadnt  had any previous 
dealings or relationship with him. Even if she thought she was going  to do what hed 
suggested, I dont  immediately see why shed have  been prepared  to disregard formal  
advice from a regulated  adviser  a pensions  transfer specialist  not to transfer so she 
could invest in carbon  credits.  
As things  stood, effectively HDIFAs unsuitable  advice  endorsed  what  Mrs P had
been told by the unregulated introducer.  That meant she had no reason  not to go ahead. 
Shed been  told, by the unregulated introducer  and a pension transfer specialist, that she 
should transfer and give up the security and virtually  guaranteed  benefits of a final salary 
pension  to a SIPP so that she could invest in carbon credits.
HDIFA didnt consider the investment  because  it didnt think it had to. But it was part and
parcel of the overall transaction and so HDIFA should  have considered it. That would  have
entailed spelling out the risks posed by the carbon credits  investment. I think  that would
have gone a long way to countering any overly  positive  views  expressed by the unregulated 
introducer. But, as things were, no one explained  how risky that sort of investment was. If 
HDIFA had done  that and told Mrs P that it couldnt recommend she transfer  that would have 
given Mrs P pause for thought about what the unregulated  introducer  had said. 
And the process  that would  have  needed  to have  been followed if HDIFA had advised Mrs P 
not to transfer  wouldnt  have made it easy for her to do it anyway. HDIFA might  have  been  
prepared to treat her as an insistent client, that is one who still wanted to proceed despite 
advice to the contrary. But that would have entailed  discussions with Mrs P to explore and 
record her reasons why she was prepared to proceed and take a high degree of risk, despite  
advice to the contrary from a specialist pension  transfer adviser. I think that would have 
concentrated Mrs Ps mind on whether it was really advisable to do what the unregulated 
introducer had suggested. And, on balance, I think shed have reconsidered.
HDIFA may not have  been prepared to process  the transfer on an insistent client  basis. If
HDIFA had declined to act, Mrs P would  have needed to have found another adviser. Id 
assume any new adviser would have  given suitable  advice  that she shouldnt transfer to 
invest in carbon credits. So Mrs P would have  been no further forward.
Ref: DRN159668810I note what Meyado has said about me having treated Mrs P has a wholly  inexperienced  
retail client.  I dont  think thats the case or that was an assumption Id made  which wasnt 
based on the evidence. I dont think an adviser  should rely entirely on how an investor might 
describe herself.  Mrs P may have  said that she had a fair degree of understanding  or 
knowledge about investing.  But that should have been tested by exploring  her actual 
investment experience and knowledge.  I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  she had any 
history or experience  of investments generally. And certainly not of specialist, complex, high 
risk and unregulated  investments such as carbon credits  the type of non mainstream 
unregulated fund that had been identified by the then regulator  as being rarely suitable  for 
ordinary retail clients  which  Mrs P was. Given her background,  I dont see she was an 
experienced or sophisticated investor.  
I agree  that its an overstatement to say Mrs P has significant experience in property 
investment. The rental property is actually her husbands. Hes a builder and before  he and 
Mrs P met he was living  in a house  which he then converted into two flats which he now lets 
out. Theres also a large  outstanding mortgage.
We know that Mrs P received a substantial payment - £13,998.40   in return for investing in 
carbon credits.  Thats a very substantial amount. I recognise that most people,  if told that 
sort of sum is on offer, would naturally  want to access it. I agree it was a motivating factor in 
Mrs Ps decision to go ahead.
Mrs P has told us that she didnt need  the money generally or for anything in particular. 
Moving her pension seems to have arisen as a result of a fairly chance conversation as a 
result of which she was put in touch with the unregulated introducer.  He then mentioned
the incentive payment. But according to Mrs P she didnt discuss  it, or the amount, with him. 
It seems  her focus was on improving  her retirement benefits rather  than generating a cash 
lump sum which although no doubt  nice have)  she didnt really  need. I dont see that shed 
have been prepared to jeopardise the balance  of her pension  fund  and risk losing it all  
just to get the payment.  And it seems she understood the payment  was a portion of the 
transfer value  she was entitled to take as cash, tax free.
I note what Meyado has said about the length of time weve had the complaint.  But, in so
far as the incentive payment is concerned, I did refer to it in my provisional decision. And I
took it into account in awarding redress. The investigator then emailed Meyado on 16
August 2019 explaining  that I proposed to treat the payment slightly differently to what  Id
said in my provisional decision. We asked for any comments  about  that with any response
to the provisional  decision  generally.
Meyados initial response didnt  comment  about  that. It was only after, on our own initiative,
wed made more enquiries and shared  the further  information wed obtained, that Meyado
has focused to any extent on the incentive payment. That said, as Ive said,  I recognise
(and as demonstrated  by our further  enquiries) that the incentive payment is a relevant
consideration. 
And whats important is that weve looked  into it further and shared the details  with Meyado, 
which has been able to comment on it. Im also issuing this letter so that Meyado can see 
what I think about it and the other comments made  and has the opportunity, if it disagrees,  to 
to provide further evidence and argument before I issue any further decision.
I think Meyados argument for requesting sight of Mrs Ps bank statements is that her 
financial position at the time is relevant in terms of the incentive payment and whether
Ref: DRN159668811shed have gone ahead anyway to secure  that money. But Mrs Ps financial position  at the 
time was explored by HDIFA  it carried out a fact finding exercise  which included obtaining 
details of Mrs Ps income and expenditure. Even  if she didnt make full disclosure she told 
HDIFA that she didnt  work but her husband did (he was self employed and his income was 
given) and they had rental income  (of an undisclosed amount). I dont think theres any 
suggestion that her financial position was difficult at the time. I dont think its necessary or 
proportionate to insist that her bank statements are disclosed.
As to whether  we should seek further  information from Firm A I dont see that would  help
Meyado when Ive considered Firm As involvement in detail along with the involvement  of 
the unregulated  introducer. And Mrs Ps representative has made a subject access request 
so I dont think any further documents will be forthcoming.
As to causation, my starting  point is that Meyado gave unsuitable advice. So primarily it is
responsible for the consequences of that unsuitable  advice   the losses that Mrs Ps 
suffered in consequence of transferring to the SIPP and investing in carbon credits.
As Ive said,  I dont think Meyado argues that its advice was suitable. Its position is, given 
the involvement of other parties,  it isnt fair or reasonable to hold Meyado responsible  for Mrs 
Ps losses in full. Ive recognized the involvement  of others.  And Ive considered  it very 
carefully along with the other  causation  issues that Meyado has raised.
But my view remains that Meyado is responsible for Mrs Ps losses.  As I said in my 
provisional decision, if Meyado considers that other parties are also to blame and should
share some of the liability, its presumably open to Meyado  to pursue those other  parties. I
dont see that Mrs P, if her losses  are met in full by Meyado,  would object to assigning her 
rights to Meyado.
comments in response  to my letter of 6 December 2019
Mrs P said she didnt  disagree in principal  with my further provisional findings.  She was 
agreeable to assigning  her rights provided  Meyado compensated her in full for her losses  as a 
result of the transfers  and investment and bore the costs of drafting the assignment agreement  
as well as her costs in obtaining legal  advice in respect of any assignment  agreement.   
Meyado didnt accept  what  Id said.  It continued to rely on the arguments it had previously 
raised. In particular it drew attention to the following:
No proper enquiries had been made  of Firm A and its involvement. Wed taken at face 
value its assertions as to its involvement   which was relevant how Mrs Ps investment 
decisions had originated.  
The PRQ  dated 24 November 2012 (which Mrs P signed to confirm the accuracy of the 
information contained and which she knew HDIFA would  rely on) included a 
recommendation that the pension funds be held in cash following the transfer. And, once 
the transfer had been  completed, Mrs P would discuss  the appropriate investment with 
her adviser at Firm A. Investment advice would be given  by Firm A. Mrs P was aware from 
previous correspondence that HDIFA was only advising  on and arranging  the transfer  of 
funds. She expressly confirmed that was correct.  HDIFA was entitled to rely on the fact 
that it was another regulated entitys role to advise on the underlying investment.
Saying that if she hadnt been advised  to transfer  shed  have  left her pension  where it 
was and so the losses  couldnt  have arisen  ignores  the available  evidence as to how 
and why Mrs P actually made her decision to transfer.  That evidence (the contents of 
Ref: DRN159668812the signed PRQ and the incentive payment) strongly  supports an argument  that she was 
determined to transfer. 
The involvement of Firm A must  be material as must the actual date on which  the losses 
arose and which  may have been several  years after the transfer.
HDIFA relied on (and as confirmed by Mrs P) that another regulated  entity was to advise 
on the investment after the pension was transferred and held in cash.  
The PRQ  is contemporaneous evidence  of Mrs Ps attitude  to risk and investment experience.  
The present factual analysis is incorrect and unfairly influenced by hindsight  and self 
serving indirect evidence  as to what might (or might not) have happened but for HDIFAs 
involvement. 
We shared what Meyado  had said with Mrs P. Her representative said Meyados response 
raised no new issues or evidence. The role of Firm A had been repeatedly  made clear.  It 
was unable to advise Mrs P and so referred her to HDIFA.  Firm A didnt provide any advice  
in respect of the pension transfer  or investment. Theres no evidence Mrs P would have 
gone ahead  with the transfer if HDIFA had advised  her against. She transferred based on 
HDIFAs unsuitable advice. Shed  been told she was entitled  to the incentive payment. But 
shed been clear that she didnt need it. She had no debts or liabilities and she just used  the 
money over a period of time. She didnt need to put her entire pension provision at risk just 
to get the payment. And she wasnt an experienced or sophisticated investor. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Meyados further comments are new. I dont have much  to add to what Ive said 
previously. Meyados main point remains Firm As involvement. I dont agree we havent 
made sufficient enquiries about that. Or that Ive misunderstood or failed to take proper 
account of the part played by Firm A, or indeed others.  
I dont see theres much  dispute  about what Firm A did. Mrs P had been  referred  to Firm A 
by an unregulated introducer  because  she was interested in investing  in carbon credits using 
her pension fund. But because she had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary 
pension scheme  Firm A couldnt advise about that and referred  her to HDIFA. Firm As letter  
dated 21 December  2011 and the document Mrs P signed seem to make it clear that Firm A 
wouldnt be further involved  in either  the transfer or the investment. 
HDIFAs position is that it was only advising Mrs P on the transfer and the SIPP itself. HDIFA 
understood that Mrs P would be getting advice elsewhere about  how her fund would be 
invested. But Ive explained why HDIFA couldnt  advise  on that limited basis and that, in 
considering the suitability  of the transfers and the SIPP, HDIFA had to consider  the 
proposed underlying investment too. Thats the position even  though the introduction  had 
come from a regulated  business  Firm A. But in any event its clear that HDIFA knew an 
unregulated introducer was involved too.  
HDIFA couldnt seek to exclude its regulatory  obligations to Mrs P by agreement with her. 
And I dont  think it matters that the transfer  values were initially held in cash:  HDIFA knew 
from the outset that Mrs P was planning  to invest in carbon credits. The proposed  
investment wasnt suitable for her. Nor was the SIPP  itself.  Mrs P was only in position to 
invest as she did as a result of HDIFAs unsuitable advice. 
Ref: DRN159668813Ive considered very carefully what Mrs P would have done if shed been given suitable  
advice  that she shouldnt transfer  to invest in carbon credits.  I maintain what Ive said 
before. I dont agree, for the reasons Ive explained, that shed have proceeded anyway. I 
agree the availability of a substantial incentive  payment  would have been a factor  in her 
decision. But shes make  it clear that she had no real need for the money.  I dont think it 
was a determinative factor  and that shed  have gone  ahead  anyway and if HDIFA had 
advised her against.  
I dont think its possible to pinpoint  exactly when Mrs Ps losses arose. But even if that 
wasnt until sometime after the investment had been made, the question  is still whether the 
losses arose as a result of HDIFAs unsuitable  advice. HDIFA knew  that the proposed 
investment was carbon credits. And the money was only available to invest  because  HDIFA 
had recommended the transfers and facilitated them. 
I note what Mrs P has said about  the incentive  payment. Its possible Mrs P could face an 
unauthorised payment  charge. But whether that will be the case and, if so, what amount, is 
uncertain. So I think it fairest to say Meyado can take into account the full amount of the 
payment Mrs P received and give her an undertaking to meet  any unauthorised payment 
charge she may in the future have to pay.  
As to any assignment of rights,  if Meyado  wants Mrs P to sign an agreement, it will need  to 
draft it at its own cost.  Id expect the terms to be clear and straightforward and obviate the 
need for Mrs P to seek legal advice. On that basis, and as its not certain that Meyado will 
seek an assignment from Mrs P, I havent  included  any directions about  it. 
All in all my views remain as Ive previously indicated. I uphold  the complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs P as far as possible in the position shed be in now 
if HDIFA had given  her suitable  advice. I think  Mrs P would  have retained  her existing 
pension arrangements. 
what should  Meyado do?
The redress  Ive set out covers Mrs Ps final salary benefits and her money purchase 
benefits. Both loss calculations involve comparing what Mrs P would have had with what  
shes actually got in her SIPP. It wouldnt be fair for the actual value of the SIPP  (including  
any amount added for the purchase of the carbon  credits investment) to be deducted in full 
twice. So the amount  deducted under each part of the calculation  should be proportionate to 
the share of the original value of the SIPP that each transfer respectively represented. 
Mrs P wouldnt have  a SIPP but for Meyados unsuitable advice. Weve  checked the position 
with the SIPP provider. The SIPP is still active but the investment has no value at present 
and no annual administration fees have been charged since  2017. On the basis  that no fees 
are being  incurred Im not making any award for future SIPP  fees. 
I assume Mrs P would want to close the SIPP if she could so I dont think  redress  should be 
paid into it. So it will need to be paid into a suitable alternative pension  arrangement  or direct  
to Mrs P. In that case, and as Ive said below, an adjustment for tax should be made.   
Ref: DRN159668814Mrs Ps final salary  benefits
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as 
at the date of my final decision, and using  the most recent financial assumptions  published  
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mrs Ps acceptance  of the decision. 
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) for Mrs Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mrs Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension 
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance. If payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
For example, if Mrs P wouldnt yet have  taken a tax-free cash sum from the employers  
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mrs P within 90 days  of the date Meyado 
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added  
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to 
pay Mrs P this part of the compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
the carbon credits investment
It would be preferable if this investment could be removed  from the SIPP. That would allow 
Mrs P to close  the SIPP if she wishes. Valuing the investment may prove difficult  as theres  
no market for it. Meyado  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a commercial  
value. I think the SIPP  provider agrees that the current  value is nil. Meyado should then pay 
the sum agreed  (if any) into the SIPP plus any costs and take ownership of the investment. If 
thats not possible then a nil value for the investment  should be assumed. 
If Mrs P is redressed in full, Meyado may ask her to provide an undertaking (Meyado will 
need to meet any costs in drawing that up) to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mrs P may receive. 
Ref: DRN159668815Mrs Ps money purchase benefits
I take the view that Mrs P would have invested differently. Its not possibly to say precisely  
what shed have done instead. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given her circumstances and objectives  at the time.  
Meyado should  compare  the performance of Mrs Ps investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value theres a loss and so 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation 
is payable. Interest should be added as set out below.
 If theres  a loss Meyado should pay such amount into suitable  pension arrangement so as to 
increase its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Again, compensation shouldnt  
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance. 
If Meyado is unable to pay the total amount into a suitable pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to Mrs P. But had it been possible  to pay into a pension plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. So the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ps actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. For example,  if Mrs P is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if she would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should  
be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Meyado deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs P how much has been taken off and give her a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional  interest
The value of 
Mrs Ps money 
purchase 
benefits 
transferred into 
the SIPPstill existsFTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of decision to 
date of settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within  28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. In calculating 
the actual value what Ive said above (about  Meyado  taking ownership and if not assuming a 
nil value) applies here too. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. Any additional  sum paid into the investment should be added  to the fair 
value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or 
Ref: DRN159668816other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from that point on. If there 
are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Meyado 
totals all those payments  and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs P wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income  total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough  to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison given Mrs 
Ps circumstances and risk attitude.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should may an allowance  for the lump  sum 
Mrs P was paid. It should do this by applying a withdrawal of £13,998.40 from the calculation 
on the date Mrs P actually  received the lump sum (6 March  2012). Meyado should give her 
an undertaking to meet  any unauthorised payment charge she may in the future have to pay.  
Meyado should  also pay Mrs P £500  for the distress  and inconvenience shes  suffered as a 
result of the uncertainty and disruption to her retirement plans.
Meyado will need  to provide details of its calculations to Mrs P in a clear  and simple  format. 
my decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd must redress  Mrs P 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1596688