K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with her dealings with Pinnacle Insurance Plc regarding her pet 
insurance policy.
background
In 2017 Miss M took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy to cover  her young dog. She bought  
the policy online. The website shows different levels of cover  presented  in a table format. Of 
the three levels of lifetime  cover available. Miss M chose the lowest  level - with a maximum 
benefit for vets fees of £2,000 per year with a £500 limit per condition.  The other benefit 
limits were  £4,000 (£1,000 per condition) and £6,000 (with  no restriction per condition). 
After she had taken  out the policy Miss M took her pet dog to the vet for a urinary tract 
infection and a tear duct problem. She says she only then found out how expensive  vets 
fees are. She asked Pinnacle to upgrade her policy, to give her a higher  limit but Pinnacle 
wouldnt agree  to this, so Miss M took out a new policy with them. This policy  had a higher 
limit of £4,000 per year. But as her pet had seen the vet for urinary and tear duct problems. 
Pinnacle added exclusions  to this policy, which meant these conditions would not be
covered.
Miss M complained about this but Pinnacle wouldnt change its decision,  so she brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt  think Pinnacle got 
something wrong, saying  it was common in pet insurance policies that a policyholder could 
not increase the level of cover, so this isnt a significant term, its common  practice. She said 
Miss M took out a new policy because she wanted  a higher level of cover, not because  
Pinnacle had got something wrong. So she didnt think it should  remove the exclusions from 
the policy, since the conditions were already existing when she took out her new policy with 
the higher level of cover.
Miss M disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. She said Pinnacle should  have 
warned her at the point of sale that whatever level of cover she chose, she couldnt then 
increase that in the future.  She said it was reasonable to expect to be able to increase the 
level of cover, particularly  when  insuring a young animal. And she said unless she had 
experience of insuring  a domestic pet she couldnt  be aware that most  pet insurers wont  
increase the cover without excluding pre-existing conditions. She also said shes  insured 
horses in the past and been  able to increase the level of cover.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint in part, for the 
following reasons:
Insurers are required to provide information  thats  clear, fair and not misleading.  And they 
should draw to a customers attention any terms that are significant or unusual.  Miss M says 
Pinnacle didnt  make it clear it wasnt possible to increase the level of cover, failed to give 
her information that is clear, fair and not misleading,  and the terms themselves are unfair.  So 
Ive considered carefully the policy terms and the way information about the policy was
provided to Miss M.
The information on Pinnacles website sets out the different  types of policy available and the 
different limits that apply for each. I think it was clear to her what  options she had, and the 
Ref: DRN15877802amount of cover she would have for each type of policy.  So she knew that the policy  she 
decided to get - Vital  Lifetime had a policy limit of £2,000 per year, whereas if shed taken 
one of the other lifetime policies, she would have  had a higher  limit.
However, there was no information in the website, in the policy  documentation  or in the 
policy schedule/welcome letter  that specifically said she couldnt increase the policy limit 
cover.
Pinnacle doesnt consider the fact that she couldnt upgrade the cover to be a significant 
term, and thats why it doesnt highlight this at the point of sale.  It also points out that none of 
the other main pet insurers flag the upgrade information at point  of sale or put it in their 
contracts. So it says this is not unusual and wouldnt  need  to be brought to the customers  
attention.
I agree  that its not unusual, but I do think it is significant; its unlikely to be what most 
customers expect when  there are different levels of cover. And customers might not realise 
they wont be able to increase the level of cover at a later date without any existing 
conditions being  excluded. Highlighting this information helps them to make the right choice  
at the outset.
If, as in this case,  the customer decides  to change their level of cover, they will have to take 
out a new policy.  Miss Ms new policy - along with nearly all pet insurance - will not cover  
any pre-existing conditions. So Miss M was left in a position where, by taking out her new 
policy with a higher  limit, she could no longer claim for the existing conditions her pet had. 
So I think this is something  that should  have been brought  to her attention.
Having said that, I still need to consider whether Miss M would  have acted differently, if she 
had been made aware of this. She says she would have taken out a policy  with a higher 
limit. But on balance, Im not satisfied  she would have done this. She could see the different  
levels of cover available and could have chosen  a higher level of cover if shed wanted it. 
She didnt  ask about any future upgrade and clearly thought the policy  she chose would  be 
sufficient.
It was only later on that she says she realised  how expensive  vets fees could be. So at the 
time she bought  her policy, she didnt think she needed a higher level of cover.  And I dont 
think that would have been  different if she had known about problems with changing her 
policy at a later date. I appreciate that she has since taken a more expensive policy but only,  
as she herself says, because she later found  out how much she might have to pay for vets 
fees. She wasnt aware of this at the time. So I dont think she would have acted differently 
at the point when she bought her policy.
I do accept though, that it was upsetting to discover she wouldnt be covered for the existing 
conditions. And she was put to some trouble having to then look for a different policy and 
decide what to do about increasing her cover. In the circumstances, I think it would  be fair for 
Pinnacle to pay some  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to her and I 
consider £300  to be a fair sum to reflect this.
replies to the provisional decision
Both parties  replied to the provisional  decision with further comments.
Ref: DRN15877803Miss M says she didnt insure for a higher  amount  because at the time her dog was a puppy  
and in good health. If shed known she couldnt  change at a later date, she would have 
chosen a higher amount  as the limit of cover would no longer be worth  much by the time her 
dog was older; its reasonable to assume his healthcare needs would increase with age.
Pinnacle has made a number of comments. In summary, it says:
It agrees that even  if more information  had been  provided, Miss M would have been 
in the same position  she didnt know how much vets fees might be or how much 
cover she might need in the future.
It doesnt agree this was a significant  limitation.  Customers dont buy policies on the 
basis they will need more  cover  in future; they wouldnt, for example,  insure  their car 
for third party, fire and theft and then try to upgrade to comprehensive cover after the 
car is damaged  in an accident, or insure their home contents for a certain  sum and 
then, after being burgled, try to upgrade at that point.
The same  logic applies here; one cant buy a policy for a certain  amount of vets fees 
and expect to be able to increase the cover after realising it isnt enough.
A significant limitation is one that would  influence the decision to buy the policy or the 
ability to make a claim.  That isnt the situation  here. It doesnt  agree that someone  
such as Miss M would decide  not to buy the policy  if this was highlighted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
In my view the fact a customer  cant change  their level of cover  at a later date is significant. 
Its clearly going to be important to someone taking out a policy  to decide how much cover 
they need. If they know at the outset  that whatever amount they choose is fixed  and cant  be 
changed later on without consequences, they will need to think carefully  about  whether they 
have chosen the right amount. So its very likely to affect their decision on which policy  to 
buy.
I dont think a customer would know that if the policy is changed  later on, pet insurers wont  
usually increase the cover without excluding any existing conditions. And I dont think the 
comparisons referred to by Pinnacle  are particularly relevant  someone  can decide to 
increase the level of cover for their home  contents  insurance at a later date if, for example, 
the value of their contents has increased.  Likewise,  they could change their car insurance 
from third party,  fire and theft to comprehensive without the sort of consequences that apply 
to pre-existing conditions  with pet insurance. The circumstances are quite different. The key 
point here is that Miss M couldnt upgrade  or amend her policy  she had to take out a new 
policy and that meant  any existing conditions were not covered.
So my view remains that this is a significant term and should have been brought to her 
attention at the point of sale.
I have also considered Miss Ms comments about  what she would have done, had she 
understood the consequences of increasing  the cover at a later date. I agree its reasonable 
to assume her pets needs might increase with age. But if she was thinking  about that, she 
could have thought about how much cover she would need  as the dog became older.  It 
seems to me this wasnt something that was foremost in her mind at the time. Rather, it 
Ref: DRN15877804became more of an issue later on, when her dog had treatment and she became aware of 
the cost of vets fees. 
So for these reasons my view remans that the complaint should be upheld in part, with a 
compensation payment of £300  to Miss M, for the reasons set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Pinnacle Insurance  PIc to 
pay compensation of £300 to Miss M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1587780