K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1990. Mr and Mrs L say Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs L applied  to take out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage in 1990. They paid a 
monthly premium for the PPI.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr L was covered by the policy.  The policy  
provided cover for accident and sickness only. At the time of taking the policy, if Mr L has 
made a successful claim for accident  or sickness it would have paid out the monthly benefit 
until he was able to return to work.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
B&B had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional and Mr and Mrs L had to agree to 
take it out. Ive been given a copy of the mortgage  application completed  at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are different boxes to tick depending on 
the different  types of PPI cover required,  along  with areas to complete detailing the amount 
of monthly benefit  wanted and who should  be insured by the policy. There  is also a box in 
which to place a cross if the PPI was not required. I can see that the Accident & Sickness 
only box has been ticked on Mr and Mrs Ls form and that Mr L has been  chosen as the 
insured person. If Mr and Mrs L didnt want to take out the PPI, they could have placed  a 
cross in the no box. 
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more likely that B&B made
Mr and Mrs L aware  that the policy was optional and that they agreed to take it out, knowing 
they could refuse it if they didnt want it.
B&B has said that it didnt recommend the PPI but Mr and Mrs L have told us they think they 
did receive advice.  But Mr and Mrs L havent provided much  detail  as to why they think B&B 
recommended the cover.  From  my review I havent  seen anything  to suggest B&B took steps 
to assess Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances with the intention  of recommending the policy to 
them. And Ive noted from B&Bs final response letter that one of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint points 
was that B&B didnt ask them about any sick pay or other policies. So I think its more likely  that 
B&B didnt recommend  the PPI. This means it didnt have to check if it was right for 
Mr and Mrs L. But B&B did have to make sure Mr and Mrs L got the information they needed 
to decide  for themselves if it was right for them.
Ref: DRN10856642Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover for Mr L. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances at the time it looks like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. While Ive noted Mr and Mrs L 
have mentioned that they suffered financial difficulty, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable. So I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said - including what theyve said about not 
needing the policy as Mr L had a separate insurance  policy to cover  him if he was unable to 
work due to illness. As Ive mentioned above,  the PPI policy was sold on a non-advised 
basis, which meant that B&B didnt have to check if the policy was suitable  for them   this 
was for Mr and Mrs L to consider based on what they knew  about their own financial 
situation. But in any event, from what we have been  told, the policy Mr L had would only pay 
out for up to three months, whereas  at the time of the sale,  the PPI would have paid out until 
he was able to return to work, which would have been in addition  to and potentially for longer  
than his existing  cover. Even when the cover did change and the benefit level was reduced,  
the PPI would still have paid out for longer  than his other insurance. So I still think  this policy 
could have provided a useful benefit  to them.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any extra interest  
they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15%  on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Ref: DRN10856643Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1085664