K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mrs S took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage. She paid a monthly  amount for 
the policy and it protected  her mortgage repayments  in the event  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs S mainly  complained  that she didn't knowingly take out the PPI and told us that she 
didnt need the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs S told us she arranged the PPI during  a meeting. Santander says it wouldve 
recommended the policy  to Mrs S. 
I cant know exactly what (if anything) was said about the PPI when Mrs S arranged to take it 
out. It wouldnt be reasonable  to expect her to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. 
This means  that what  Mrs S says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
her complaint. 
But I think the paperwork wouldve made it clear to Mrs S that PPI was an available option  
with her mortgage and it was up to her to say if she wanted any cover. I say this because on 
the mortgage application form it said We recommend that your monthly mortgage payments 
are protected against the event of Redundancy, Accident and Sickness   
Mrs S indicated that she wanted  Santander  to arrange PPI. She selected the type of cover  
she wanted from the options available.  And she signed her completed mortgage application 
confirming that the information shed put on the form was true and correct.  
Mrs S wouldve  also had to complete a separate application form in order  to take out the 
PPI. 
I can see why Mrs S mightve wanted PPI when she was responsible on her own for paying  
the mortgage. The mortgage was a significant financial commitment and her home couldve 
been at risk if she wasnt able to make her mortgage  monthly  repayments  in full and on time. 
So I can understand that protecting her repayments wouldve been an important 
consideration for her at the time.  
Ref: DRN18915512On balance, I think its likely that Mrs S decided that she wanted to have the benefits the 
policy offered her. And I find that Mrs S signed up for the policy  knowing it was up to her to 
say if she wanted  to take out the cover.  And it was added to her mortgage  account when she 
requested this.
If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy  information  
in a clear way.
Santander couldnt provide a policy document from the exact date Mrs S took out PPI. But it 
has provided a policy  document which was in use around this time  so I think  its likely that 
in all main respects the policy that Mrs S took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Mrs S told us that she was entitled  to 3 months full sick pay followed by 3 months  half pay. 
She also mentioned  she had some savings. But I think PPI still couldve been useful. 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any employment benefits and in full for longer 
than her employer wouldve paid her full sick pay  at least  up to 12 months per claim. Also 
the policy wouldve  covered her mortgage repayments for up to at least  12 months  per claim 
if shed lost her job unexpectedly  and was out of work. 
I dont know if Mrs S wouldve  always  had savings she couldve relied on if shed needed to 
make a claim. And if she did have money in the bank when she bought  her house, given her 
circumstances, I think  shed have  valued  the protection PPI offered if it meant she could 
keep her savings intact to provide financial security.  
PPI is more dependable than relying on family help. Having  PPI wouldve meant Mrs S could 
be sure shed always be able to keep up the monthly repayments in order  to protect her 
home. Mrs S couldve made  repeated  claims on the policy, giving  her long term protection  
for her mortgage.
So, looking  at her circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mrs S. 
So, I dont think more  information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made 
any difference to Mrs Ss decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs S before she signed up to have it. But, 
from what Ive seen,  Mrs S hasnt suggested that she couldnt  afford  the monthly premiums. 
And, as she asked to have PPI when she didnt have to take it out, it seems she was happy  
at the time to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs S still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. I dont think having  better  
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it.
This means  that I dont find that Mrs S has lost out as a result of anything that Santander  did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN18915513my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1891551