K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mrs S says 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold the policy to herself and her late husband,  
Mr S.
background
In 1986 Mr and Mrs S took out a joint mortgage  with Halifax, at the time they didnt apply for 
a PPI policy.
In 1996 Mr and Mrs S were sold a PPI policy to cover their mortgage repayments.  They  paid 
a monthly amount for the policy. The PPI policy covered only Mrs S. The premiums for the 
policy were around £9.96 per month.  If Mrs S could not work due to an accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment the policy could  have paid a monthly benefit of £200 for up to 12 
months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy had been  mis-sold. Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Despite the time that has passed  since the sale Halifax has been able to give us some of the 
original paperwork.  Ill make my decision based  on whats  more likely to have  happened, 
taking into account   the evidence available,  what both parties  have told me and what  we 
know about these  types of sale.
I realise Mrs S will be disappointed but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  and Ill explain  
why.
Mrs S has told us she has no recollection of the PPI being sold to her and that she only 
found out she had PPI on the mortgage  quite  recently.
Ive thought carefully about this but Halifax has been  able to show  us a copy of the PPI 
application form signed by Mrs S in May 1996. So I think at that stage Mrs S would have 
been made aware of the policy.  
I also note that Halifax  has sent us copies  of claim forms from October and November 1998 
together with a handwritten letter from Mrs S. It appears Mrs S was off work for some  
months and attempted to make  a sickness claim on the policy  at that time.  Its unclear 
whether the claim  was successful but this does indicate Mrs S knew  of the policy  in 1998.  
After so many years  I cant be sure what was said at any meeting with Halifax.  But Mr and 
Mrs S had held the mortgage for ten years since 1986 without PPI. So it seems  unlikely 
theyd have been told in 1996 that the policy was compulsory.
Ref: DRN19315652Taking all this into account, I think its most likely  Halifax made Mr and Mrs S aware of the 
PPI policy  and that it was optional,  and they chose to take it out. Although  I can understand 
why Mrs S wouldnt  recall this after over 20 years  have  passed.
Halifax has said it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. In that case  it had to 
check that the policy was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time I think it was. I say this because:
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs S only. And from what Ive seen she wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover, so she couldve made a claim if she had 
needed to.
Mrs S has told us her employer would have  paid her full sick pay for six months  followed by 
half pay for a further six months. After that shed have to rely on statutory sick pay only.      
But the PPI sold to Mr and Mrs S could  have paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 months,  
which is longer than her full sick pay would last. So I still think  Mrs S would have found the 
policy useful if she had become unwell, particularly  if she couldnt work  for a prolonged 
period of time.
The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months if Mrs S had become 
unemployed, meaning she could use any redundancy  pay for other living costs.
Mrs S has told us that she and her husband  had savings. She recalls that they had enough  
savings to clear the mortgage if they had chosen  to do so. Mrs S has told us they were 
advised not to clear  the mortgage  but to keep  their savings intact. It could be that at the time 
Mr and Mrs S were  getting a good  interest rate on the savings, or that the savings  may have 
been required for some other purpose. But in any event the PPI policy would have allowed 
Mr and Mrs S to pay the mortgage for up to 12 months if things went wrong, without  having  
to dip into their savings.
Because the sale took place so long ago, I dont know what  information  about the policy      
Mr and Mrs S were  given by Halifax. So its possible the information Halifax  gave  them 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for Mr and Mrs S if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the policy. 
I note Mrs S has mentioned she is also unhappy  with the buildings insurance that was sold 
to her when  she held the mortgage with Halifax. In this decision Ive only dealt  with the sale 
of the PPI. Mrs S will need  to contact Halifax in the first instance if she wishes to complain  
about the building insurance  premiums.
Mrs S also told us she was unhappy with how Halifax has investigated her complaint. In 
particular she told us Halifax had lost her late husbands death certificate and also subjected 
her to an intrusive telephone call.
I realise it must have  been very upsetting  that the death certificate  was lost. But Halifax  has 
told us it didnt request  the certificate  to investigate this complaint. Its said it already held a 
copy on file so had no need to ask for it. And its shown us letters it sent to Mrs S requesting  
instead a Grant of Representation  which it says it received from Mrs S safely. So without any 
other evidence it would be unfair for me to make a finding that Halifax lost the death  
certificate.
Ref: DRN19315653Ive listened to the call made to Mrs S by Halifax. I note it was quite lengthy and asked 
questions about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale. But when a complaint 
is made Id expect Halifax to investigate it thoroughly. To do that Halifax  needed to establish 
if the advice it gave to Mr and Mrs S was suitable. I note the Halifax representative gained         
Mrs S agreement  at the beginning  of the call and explained how long it would take.  And 
although the questions were a little repetitive at times they seemed reasonable in the context  
of the complaint. 
In summary  I think its most likely  Halifax made it clear the policy  was optional and Mr and 
Mrs S chose to take it out. The policy looks to have been right for them. So even if Halifax 
had given them all the information it shouldve, I still think they wouldve bought the PPI 
policy. And Ive not seen  anything else in Halifaxs investigation of the complaint to make  me 
think I should make an award  against  it for poor or inappropriate  complaint handling.
I realise Mrs S will likely remain disappointed with my decision  but I hope  she finds  this 
explanation of my reasons helpful.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against            
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1931565