K821x#15Complaint
Miss L complains that Hitachi  Capital  (UK) Plc refused to accept her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of new windows.  
Background
In late 2015 Miss L entered into a finance agreement with Hitachi  to fund the installation  of 
replacement windows and doors  provided by a company I will call A. The agreement was for 
£7,276.42 over 99 months with monthly payments of £159.25 which means that the total 
payable is £15,288.  The goods were installed in early 2016 and Miss L signed  a satisfaction 
note. Subsequently  Miss L identified a number of problems. A carried out remedial work, but 
Miss L considers this to have been unsatisfactory and she complained again to A in 2018.
She took her concerns  to Hitachi  in March 2018 as she considered  the remedial work hadnt 
been carried out to an acceptable standard. Shortly after this A said it had carried out the 
remedial work to a satisfactory standard and no further work was required in connection with 
the installation.
Miss L brought  her complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who suggested that Miss L obtain  an independent report. She did so and he 
shared this with A and Hitachi. A took the view that its work was satisfactory. The report 
referenced a house survey carried out when Miss L bought the house a few years previously 
and A felt this supported its position.
Our investigator noted the report identified a number of defects to the front elevation  of the 
property, specifically the first floor window, ground floor window and front door. The new 
windows didnt have  sufficient support and the weight caused a downward movement. This 
also affected the floor and caused a difference in height between  the old and new floor 
boards.
The report  also identified poor workmanship  with the flooring in that 18 mm thick boarding  
was used compared to 22mm thick original flooring. It also covered problems with structural 
support for the windows. When the installers from Anglian refitted the removed  bowed  
windows the inspector noted they fitted  an insulated timber infill panel rather  than install  a 
lintel to provide suitable support. The report noted  that after both windows had been installed 
that the head of the ground floor window deflected. It also noted  that the studding  hadnt 
been properly  designed or detailed and the window frames were  left to take weight for which 
they werent designed.
The report  says that if the faults  were not fixed the frame and glazing would eventually  crack 
and, subject to further  testing, the windows may have to be replaced.  Our investigator 
thought Hitachi  should cover the cost of the necessary repairs. He didnt think A should be 
allowed to make any further efforts at repair given Miss L had lost faith in the quality of its 
workmanship. However, he didnt  think it should cover the cost of supplying a new lintel as 
that had not been part pf the original  contract.
Miss L said she thought  the credit agreement should  be wound up and A should take away 
its faulty goods. She also said that she had incurred additional costs in getting  the report  
done and in some small building  works such as removing radiator. 
Ref: DRN18523852Hitachi didnt agree and sent a lengthy submission  from A. It said a survey was carried out 
prior to work commencing and this was signed  by Miss L. This showed  the work  was to 
replace three windows  to the front of the property, the front door and two side panels and the 
kitchen door.  It said it carried out repairs to the doors under its warranty.
It said that there hadnt been any internal block wall between the upstairs and downstairs  
windows. It also pointed  out that the timberwork was in a poor state of repair and this was 
something it couldnt have foreseen. It had carried out repairs as a gesture of goodwill and it 
took no responsibility for the outcome. It added that the movement in the floor was due to it 
not being attached  to the wall and the subsequent movement  wasnt connected to the 
installation of the windows. It said that it hadnt contracted to deal with any issues to the wall. 
It also noted the house buyers survey had identified the poor condition of the property and in 
particular the fact that it couldnt comment on the state of the wall behind the hanging tiles 
which were in a poor state of repair. This report noted there was deflection in the bricks  
above the window which indicated the deflection was already present  before it installed the 
windows. It also noted other issue such as the prior removal of an internal wall which may 
have contributed to the problems.
It believed Miss L was aware  of the problems  with the house and failed to tell it about these. 
It refuted  that the installation of the windows caused the problems which  had led Miss L to 
complain.
Our investigator said that he believed it was reasonable to rely on the independent  report 
and in any event  if there  were existing defects he wondered why A proceeded with the works 
which were likely to fail.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Because Miss Ls transaction with A was financed by credit supplied  to her by Hitachi, 
section 75 of the CCA1974  is a factor that needs  to be taken  into account when dealing with 
his complaint. In simple  terms, section 75 gives Miss L an equal right to claim against Hitachi  
or A for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by A.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Ref: DRN18523853It is clear that Miss L bought a house  which was in need of repair and renovation.  I dont 
believe that is disputed. The key issue is the installation of the windows without the 
necessary support to the apparently flimsy  front wall. A and Hitachi  have said that the 
problems were present  before any work was carried out and it was only responsible  for the 
installation of its doors and widows and not for any associated  issues  which may have 
arisen.
I consider there are two issues with that, firstly the independent report reached a different 
conclusion and secondly A had some responsibility to identify  if its products  were suitable for 
installing in the property.
On the first issue the independent inspector had access to the house  survey and in fact I 
believe he brought it to the attention of Hitachi. He took into account the state of the house 
prior to any work being done by A and he reached the conclusion that it had contributed  to 
the faults which presented themselves. The inspector concluded that a structure should 
have been installed  to ensure that no vertical  load in any form was being  transferred to the 
windows. Quite simply, he felt the installation  had been faulty.
He queried the installation  process  and the workmanship which he considered contributed  
the problems Miss L faced. As such I dont think the existing state of the property was such  
that it exonerates  A from responsibility  for the faults.
On the second  point  I see that the confirmation  of survey details supplied by Hitachi  states 
that: It is not always possible to identify if a lintel is present when the existing 
windows/doors are in situ. If at the point  of installation that the structure is 
unsupported/compromised then it may be necessary for a lintel to be installed. Should this 
be the case then additional costs will apply to the customer in order to make  the aperture  
structurally sound.
It is not clear  why A during the installation didnt draw to Miss Ls attention  the structural  
defects in the front wall and take the appropriate action to remedy it. That would have been 
the obvious answer and would have saved a lot of subsequent grief for all concerned. 
Consumer law requires the vendor  to take into account the fitness for purpose  of the goods 
and in this case  I am satisfied the installation of the windows and the subsequent repair fails 
that requirement.
I have given consideration to suitable  redress and whether the agreement should be 
unwound, but I have concluded that would not be appropriate. The agreement  covers not 
only the windows,  but the contract includes several doors and windows and not all of those 
have caused problems. If the agreement  was to be unwound then all the doors and windows  
would have to be removed and I dont consider that to be reasonable. However, Miss L 
should be put in a position where  the goods  are both suitable  and fit for purpose.  To that end 
I believe that Hitachi should cover the cost of a third party making  repairs.   
I gather  Miss L stopped making some payments and in the circumstances that her complaint 
has been upheld  I dont believe it appropriate that she should pay interest or charges which  
have arise due to the non payment. However, she is liable to pay the agreed sum of £15,288  
and Hitachi is entitled to expect her to do so. It should cover her additional costs  of £540 for 
the report, but I am not persuaded the other smaller sums she sought  in connection with 
building work  need  be paid by Hitachi.
Ref: DRN18523854My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi to pay the cost of 
repairing or replacing the windows as set out in the quote supplied by Miss L for £5,230 
(inclusive of VAT) less £300  to cover the lintel work.  It should also remove any interest  and 
charges that may have arisen  from the non payment  of monthly  sums  while  this complaint  
was being considered. It should also pay Miss L £540 for the report  and £100  compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered. Under  the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
3 March 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1852385