K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about the service hes received from Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited. It is dealing with a claim he made under his car insurance policy  following the theft 
of his car in August  2018. 
background
Mr J bought a car insurance policy with Advantage. Unfortunately  toward the end of August 
2018 his car was stolen following a burglary at his home. Mr Js car was found at a border in 
Europe in September 2018.  In October  2018  Advantage  repatriated Mr Js car to a 
dealership garage  in the UK. Mr J contacted  us at the end of October 2018.
Mr J made  a number of complaints to Advantage. In summary, he was unhappy with the 
delay he said Advantage caused in returning his car for repair. He felt Advantage didnt 
provide updates  and he was particularly unhappy  about a call he received from an 
engineer in November 2018. 
In October  and November  2018 Advantage replied to Mr Js complaints. It apologised for the 
delays it said it was responsible for. It paid Mr J a total compensation award of £770 for its 
poor service and delay.  This was made up of two payments  in October  and November 2018  
of £270 and £500 respectively. 
The repairs  to Mr Js car were completed in early January 2019. 
Mr J remained  unhappy. He said the compensation Advantage paid isnt enough. He 
believes the delay  it caused is unacceptable. Mr J says hes lost out as hes continued to 
make payments for the finance of his car and insurance every month  but he hasnt had the 
enjoyment of it.
Our investigator thought Advantage had fairly compensated Mr J for its poor service up until 
the call he had with its engineer. Mr J complained that the engineer had accused  him of 
fraud and he told Mr J that Advantage wouldnt be dealing with his claim. Although  
Advantage upheld this complaint  it didnt pay Mr J any compensation for the way the call 
was handled.  Our investigator thought Advantage should pay £100 compensation to Mr J  
as from the notes and Mr Js account,  the call had caused him distress and upset. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view.  He said Advantages  timeline  isnt correct. He feels 
the investigator has taken  Advantages word  over his. He doesnt think  the recommendations 
the investigator made go far enough to resolve his complaints.
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said its compensated Mr J fairly. 
As both parties disagree, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J disagrees  with the timeline  our investigator set out in her view. This was based on claim 
notes provided by Advantage. Ive addressed each timeline Mr J disagrees with.
Ref: DRN19021132Mr J reported the theft to Advantage  on 23 August  2018. Its notes say it issued a theft claim 
pack to Mr J by post on 24 August 2018. I understand Mr J says he didnt receive it  so he 
doesnt believe Advantage  sent it. I can see from the claim notes that he told Advantage this 
on 3 September  2018. Advantage agreed to resend the pack by email, which it did on 4 
September 2018. 
I havent seen  a copy of the theft pack letter which Advantage  says it posted to Mr J. So I 
only have Advantages claim notes  to rely on. Im reasonably satisfied that on balance, 
Advantage posted the pack to Mr J. It isnt responsible  for any postal issues. But in any 
event, I dont think Mr J was prejudiced  by any delay between 24 August 2018 and 4 
September 2018. I say this because Advantage was informed that Mr Js car had been  found 
on 6 September  2018. So any delay in completing and returning the documents in the theft 
pack didnt have an impact on the claim. 
Mr J remains very unhappy about  the call that took place  between him and Advantages 
engineer on 7 November 2018.  He says the engineer accused him of fraud  and called him a 
liar. He was very worried as the engineer said Advantage wouldnt be meeting  his claim due 
to a discrepancy in the mileage given when  he reported  the incident.  Mr J said he explained 
that the mileage  given  was an estimate at the time. 
Advantage wrote to Mr J on 16 November  2018  and said that it had listened  to the call from 
7 November 2018. Advantage upheld Mr Js complaint about the way the call was handled 
and apologised  to him. 
During our investigation we asked Advantage to provide a call recording. Advantage said 
that the call wasnt  recorded. Mr J says this shows Advantage has been dishonest.
But I think theres been some confusion. Our investigator asked Advantage to provide a 
recording of a call that took place on 9 November 2018. This is because Mr J said 
Advantage didnt  tell him it was no longer declining his claim until 14 November 2018. Our 
investigator thought  Advantage had reassured Mr J in a call on 9 November 2018.  So it was 
this call that Advantage says it doesnt have  a recording of. 
We didnt ask Advantage to provide a recording of the call between  the engineer and Mr J on 
7 November 2018. So I don think Advantage gave inconsistent information about the call 
recording. 
But I dont think  from the claim notes  that Advantage assured Mr J on 9 November  2018  
that it would  no longer  decline  his claim then. The notes say:
not going  into call with engineering at this stage but I assured customer  it will form 
part of final response
So I agree with Mr J that Advantage  didnt  appear  to make it clear to him that it wouldnt 
decline his claim until a later call on 14 November  2018. 
As Advantage upheld Mr Js complaint  on 16 November 2018 that the call on 7 November 
2018 wasnt handled well, I dont think its necessary for us to listen  to that call. I think 
Advantage caused Mr J worry and distress between 7 November 2018 and 14 November 
2018. Mr J has provided  an email thread between him and Advantage between these dates. 
Ref: DRN19021133Its clear that Mr J was upset following the call. On 13 November 2018 he said he was still 
waiting for an update  to explain what would happen next. 
For the worry and upset Advantage caused  Mr J between 7 and 14 November  2018,  I think  
Advantage should compensate Mr J. But I think the investigators recommendation of £100  
even though this was based on the upset  lasting for two days  is still reasonable. Its in line 
with similar  awards which we give and examples  can be found  on our website.
I think Advantage was responsible for some delay totalling three weeks  at the early  stages of 
the claim - between September and October 2018. Advantage accepts this. And it agreed it 
didnt call Mr J back when promised.
There were delays in having  Mr Js car repatriated back from Europe. But I can see that 
Advantage regularly chased the relevant parties  to get Mr Js car returned. These delays  
were outside  of the control of Advantage.  I know that at this stage, Mr J wanted Advantage 
to consider dealing with his claim as a total loss so that he could buy a replacement car. 
But as Mr Js car had been found, I think it was reasonable of Advantage to first see if Mr Js 
car was repairable. It said it would review  the case by 4 October  2018   if it wasnt able to 
progress Mr Js claim by then. In line with the policy,  Advantage arranged  for Mr Js car to be 
inspected and found it was repairable.
So I think the compensation Advantage  paid Mr J for its poor service and early  delay totalling 
£770 to Mr J was fair and reasonable.  
Mr J says he has ongoing issues with phone connectivity in his car following the repairs.  
Hes unhappy that Advantage  isnt dealing with his requests. 
Advantage has said that due to Mr Js persistence in contacting the handlers involved in his 
claim, it will no longer comment or repeat any conversations its already  had with Mr J. For 
the connectivity issue, it said the dealership garage  will need  to provide an estimate  and it 
will arrange  for an engineer to look to authorise further repair  work. In the event of any new 
concerns, Advantage said Mr J will need to take his car to the dealership garage and obtain 
a report. Then Advantage will arrange for an independent engineer to review  it. 
I understand Mr J wants an assurance that his warranty hasnt been  affected by the repairs  
Advantage has carried out. He believes there  may be further  damage  to his car caused  by 
the theft that may come  up later on.
An independent engineer  inspected  Mr Js car after it was repaired and said he thought the 
repairs had been  carried out to an excellent standard. He didnt identify any problems. Any 
issues Mr J has with his warranty arent issues Advantage is responsible for. Its obliged to 
carry out incident related repairs to Mr Js car. These  repairs  are guaranteed  for five years.
Unfortunately there will always be a degree  of inconvenience when dealing  with a claim.  I 
appreciate Mr Js car took longer than expected  to repair. But I think  Advantage explained  
more than once  that the garage said the repairs were likely to take some  time because it 
was a large repair job due to the components involved. I see that Mr J was in a hire car from 
11 September 2018 as a gesture of goodwill by Advantage until repairs started  and then in 
a courtesy car until he collected his car on 8 January 2019. Mr Js policy  doesnt  provide hire 
car cover in the event of a theft claim  only for the duration of repairs.  However, due to the 
circumstances of Mr Js case  I think  Advantage  acted reasonably here.
Ref: DRN19021134Throughout the case Mr J has contacted  Advantage  frequently  often  daily and often 
several times a day. I cant say that Advantage failed to update  Mr J as  aside from the 
delays Advantage  accepted happened  and compensated Mr J for  I think Advantage 
replied to Mr J the majority of the time either on the day he contacted it or the following day. 
I understand Mr J feels he has lost out as he hasnt been able to enjoy his car and hes had 
to continue to pay for the finance and insurance for it. But I dont think these are losses that 
Advantage is responsible for. Mr J is responsible for the costs to buy, lease or rent his car. 
And hes responsible  for insuring it. And as Advantage has met his theft claim, it has fulfilled 
its obligation under  the terms of the insurance policy.  So Mr J correctly owes the full years 
premium  which he is paying by way of monthly instalments. 
So Im upholding  Mr Js complaint in part. I think Advantage should  pay Mr J £100 
compensation for the distress  caused  by the discussion  between him and Advantages 
engineers on 7 November 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr J £100  compensation for the upset caused  when  it wrongly told 
him it intended to decline  his claim  on 7 November 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr J accepts  my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1902113