K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 with a 
credit card. Mr J says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr J feels that Capital  One did not make  the optional nature of the PPI clear and he was led 
to believe his application for the credit card would be declined if he did not take PPI. Both 
Mr J and Capital One agree  the policy was purchased  online.  Capital One says it wouldve 
made the optional  nature  of the PPI clear  and sought Mr Js consent  before adding it to his 
account. Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what  I think is more likely based  
on the evidence  available  including Mr Js testimony. 
Capital One has sent in a screenshot of what it says Mr J wouldve seen online when he 
applied for the PPI and based on what I know of Capital  Ones  normal processes, I think  this 
screenshot is likely  to be a good representation  of what Mr J wouldve seen. This shows  
Customers had to click a Yes box to add PPI or a No box to decline it. Ive seen a copy  of 
Capital Ones computer  record of Mr Js application  and the PPI section  indicates  the Yes 
box had been  clicked. As this application  was completed online, Mr J wouldve completed 
the application independently  and Ive seen  nothing suggesting that the PPI was 
compulsory or a necessary part of the credit card application. There  was a No option  to 
decline cover. 
Weve seen a number of cases from around  the time Mr J bought his PPI, and customers  did 
generally have  to select PPI after they were given the option to add or decline it  so I think  
its likely  that it was clear the PPI was optional. The PPI also appeared on Mr Js credit card 
statements, so had he not agreed to take the PPI, I wouldve expected him to have 
questioned what  these payments were for. 
So based  on what Ive seen, although Ive thought  carefully about what Mr J has said and 
understand his strength of feeling about  it, I think its more likely Capital One made it clear 
Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Capital One made  a tailored recommendation to Mr J, or that it 
assessed his individual  circumstances to check the policy was suitable  for him. So I dont 
think Capital One advised Mr J to take the PPI. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for him  but it did have to make sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide 
if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt  look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
Ref: DRN18176252cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.
Mr J told us he had some sick pay provided by his employer  and some other means  to help 
him make his repayments should  he have found himself unexpectedly  out of work. But this 
policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months if he was unable to work 
because of illness or injury. And it also wouldve provided up to 12 months  of cover for 
unemployment. This would leave any other means  he had available for him to use on other 
essential expenditure. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1817625