K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Newcastle  Building  Society mis-sold Miss G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1990.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Miss Gs comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Miss G has said she was pressurised into taking  PPI and led to believe she needed to take 
PPI to be successful in her mortgage application. I can see that the mortgage  form itself did 
present the PPI as a choice. And a difficulty is that I, of course, was not present at the 
meeting to hear what was said, and in what tone it was presented.  Also, I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail  everything  that happened  about  28 years  ago when the 
application was made. So it wouldnt be fair, without stronger supporting evidence, to 
conclude that the PPI was sold unfairly in the way Miss G believes. 
Newcastle probably  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G as being particularly suited to her 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss G to decide  whether  it was suitable. But even if it had made  a 
recommendation, I think it would probably  have been an appropriate one in her 
circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant 
difficulties, and the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to any employer sickness and 
redundancy benefits, and possibly for longer.  So it would have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Newcastle explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about  this would have affected whether Miss G 
took the PPI.
Its possible Newcastle didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Miss G would  have been affected by any of these. Its also likely she was eligible for 
the policy, and shed be paying for it monthly,  so she could  cancel it at any time without 
further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN11403952Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140395