K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) only completed a temporary repair  
to her boiler,  and disposed of the part that needs  to be replaced for the boiler to be repaired 
properly. Shes also unhappy that the engineer didnt tell her a full repair wouldnt be 
completed; and she only found this out when chasing for an update  three days later.
background
Miss D has a home emergency  policy. The cover is underwritten by IPA, which means  its 
responsible for the claim and this complaint. 
The policy provides cover for emergency repairs to various parts  of the home, including  the 
heating system. The terms explain that IPA will instruct a local tradesman  to attend in an 
emergency and it will cover the costs (up to the policy  limits) of an emergency repair. A 
permanent repair will only be completed if the costs are similar to that of an emergency 
repair. The terms also explain that an emergency repair is something that resolves  the 
emergency, but is temporary  and will need  to be replaced by a permanent  repair.
Miss D had a problem with her boiler,  so IPA instructed an engineer.  The engineer  found  the 
problem to be a faulty programmer,  so this part was removed. This restored Miss Ds heating 
and hot water, which she could then control  from her boiler directly. 
Miss D called IPA for an update three days later, but she was told no further help would be 
given to her because she could now manually control  her boiler functions. Miss D was 
unhappy about this, so she complained.
In response IPA explained  that the policy entitled Miss D to an emergency repair, to alleviate 
the present emergency. It said the engineer had temporarily resolved the issue because they 
had removed the faulty programmer, which has left Miss D with heating and hot water until 
she could arrange  a permanent repair on a private  basis. So IPA concluded that it had 
completed a satisfactory  repair.
However, IPA also said it should  have told Miss D the day after the engineers visit that she 
wouldnt be covered  for a permanent repair, so it offered her £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her by not doing so.
Miss D remained  unhappy. She said she had been  left with a boiler  that is missing a part and 
is on constantly. She also asked for the faulty  part to be returned so she could get her boiler 
repaired properly. But IPA told her the engineer would have disposed of the part if Miss D 
hadnt requested  to keep it at the time.  Miss D clarified that the engineer hadnt told her 
about this, and she wouldnt have known to ask to keep it because she didnt know the 
engineer wouldnt  be completing a full repair. 
Miss D went on to ask for details of the faulty  part so she could get it replaced. IPA again 
explained it was the programmer  that had been  removed, and said her independent 
engineer would be able to determine  what was needed.
Ref: DRN13714722Miss D referred her complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators, 
but she didnt  think it should be upheld. Our investigator explained that the policy  provides 
cover for an emergency repair  and she concluded  that £50 fairly acknowledged  the delay 
in telling Miss D no further action  would be taken. She also said that she didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for the faulty part to have been disposed  of  and an engineer  would have 
been able to recognise the part required without the make and model number. So she 
concluded that disposing of the faulty part hadnt  delayed the permanent repair. 
In response Miss D explained that if she hadnt  chased IPA, the delay would have been 
much more than two days.  She also made the point  that parts shouldnt be disposed  of 
without informing customers, and asked how she was to complete a permanent repair  
without the faulty  part or a report confirming what needs to be done next. Miss D said 
because she doesnt have these details, she will have the extra  cost of an engineer  
assessing the problem first, before  the replacement part can be ordered.
Because Miss D disagreed with our investigator, her complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. Miss D has said that, given the inconvenience caused  to her, she would like 
the missing part to be replaced  and her boiler  back working as normal.  She has estimated 
that would  cost about £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  as our investigator,  for much the same 
reasons.
The policy covers the cost of a temporary repair in order to resolve  an emergency. It doesnt 
cover the cost of the permanent repair, unless that costs similar to the temporary one. IPAs 
engineer restored Miss Ds heating  and hot water  with a temporary fix, so it resolved  the 
emergency  and because replacing the faulty  part would have cost more  than the 
temporary solution, Im satisfied IPA didnt need to do this (or anything  else).
IPAs engineer attended about five months ago, and its my understanding  that Miss D hasnt 
yet arranged the permanent repair. But Im not persuaded  that this has been delayed  due to 
IPAs actions.
Miss D says because she wasnt given the faulty part, or a report  detailing what  needs to be 
done for the full repair, she will have to pay for an engineer  to assess  her boiler  first, before 
the replacement  part can be ordered. However,  the policy terms didnt require IPA to give 
her a report about what was needed for the permanent repair; it only had to complete a 
temporary repair to resolve  the emergency.  I do understand what Miss D says about  not 
being given the faulty part. But soon after the engineers visit she was told it was a faulty  
programmer that had been removed  and I consider it likely her own engineer  would be 
able to order a suitable replacement programmer  from the boiler details alone, without 
having the old one or its model  number.  Therefore,  Im not persuaded IPA has caused    
Miss D an expense by disposing of the faulty  programmer  or indeed delayed the 
permanent repair.
Ref: DRN13714723In my view there are things that IPA could  have done better. Its already acknowledged  that 
Miss D should have been told two days earlier that no further assistance would be provided. 
I also agree  with Miss D that the engineer  should have given her the option of keeping the 
faulty part given  it wasnt being replaced. In addition, IPA wasnt particularly helpful when 
she later asked for further details  the model  number was only provided when our 
investigator became  involved.
However, Im not persuaded that IPA is responsible for the permanent repair being delayed 
beyond the initial two days  nor am I persuaded that IPA has caused Miss D costs, which 
could have otherwise been avoided. So overall, Im satisfied  that £50 fairly acknowledges 
the inconvenience Miss D was caused  by the things IPA could have done better.
I understand the point Miss D makes  about the delay  only being two days due to her chasing 
IPA for an update.  But I can only reasonably  consider the delay that did happen, not what  
might have happened if Miss D hadnt  contacted IPA.
Miss D has also told us the policy was mis-sold. But as explained by our investigator, the 
sale is a separate  matter  to how her claim was handled, so I wont  be commenting  on the 
sale here.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss D. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1371472