K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that the charges added to her J D Williams & Company Limited account 
were excessive.
background
Mrs H says the charges  applied to her account were unfair  and excessive, during a time 
when she was struggling financially.
JD Williams says it was satisfied the charges it applied were  fair and not excessively high 
but offered  to refund £24 for administration  charges  that appeared twice on one statement. It 
says the charges were in line with its terms and conditions and that it demonstrated  that its 
administration charges for missed payments were broadly in line with its costs.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be partly upheld.  He was satisfied the 
charges were correctly  applied and not disproportionately high. But he found that 
JD Williams was aware of a change in Mrs Hs circumstances in August 2015 and should  
have taken more  substantive steps  to treat her with due consideration. As such our 
adjudicator recommended  that JD Williams should refund all fees and interest  applied  to the 
account from 24 August  2015 onwards, with any subsequent payments used to reduce the 
adjusted balance. He said any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs H with 8% interest  
applied and that her credit  file should  be adjusted to backdate the default to 24 August 2015, 
with payments used  to reduce the balance. He added that JD Williams should set up a 
suitable repayment plan if an outstanding balance remained  and should  liaise  with the third 
party debt collection agency,  if necessary,  to ensure the resolution is carried out.
JD Williams responded to say that Mrs H never  disclosed  the reason for her illness  and that 
it had been in touch with her to offer assistance  throughout.  It says Mrs H only made  three 
payments between January 2016 and September 2016 and advised  shed  been  away all 
summer and thought  a family  member  was paying  her account. JD Williams  says it was not 
clear she was in financial  difficulties and an offer to set up a direct debit was declined. It says 
it believed the charges  applied were in line with how Mrs H managed the account and that it 
offered substantive steps to help Mrs H based  on the limited information shed disclosed.
However, JD Williams  offered to refund  interest  and fees, and reduce the balance, in line 
with the adjudicators recommendations.  But it did not agree  to amend Mrs Hs credit file as it 
said it has an obligation to report accurate  information on how Mrs H managed her account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As JD Williams has now agreed to the adjudicators  recommendation with regard to the 
financial redress, I wont consider that further  here.
Ref: DRN10026002I accept what JD Williams says about  its obligation  to report  accurate information,  but I need  
to consider what Mrs Hs credit file is likely to have  shown  had JD Williams taken the action 
in August 2015 to which it has now agreed. That is, I need to try to put Mrs H back  in the 
position in which she would have been had JD Williams applied  no further interest and fees 
from that date.
To that end, I think its reasonable  to think that Mrs Hs account  would have been defaulted 
on 24 August 2015 (as opposed  to 12 January  2017)  and that any subsequent  payments 
would have been applied to the defaulted  sum.
So I find that JD Williams should  amend Mrs Hs credit file accordingly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. J D Williams & Company Limited should:
Refund all fees and interest  applied to the account from 24 August 2015 onwards;
Reduce the adjusted balance by any payments  made  after 24 August 2015;
Refund any overpayments to Mrs H with 8% simple interest* applied  from the 
payment date to the settlement date;
Amend Mrs Hs credit file to backdate the default to 24 August 2015 and to show  that 
all payments made after that point were used to reduce the defaulted balance.
Liaise  with the debt collection agency, if necessary, to ensure these changes 
happen, including the setting up of a suitable  repayment plan if a balance remains.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from this interest.  JD Williams 
should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1002600