K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled  his buildings  and
contents insurance claim.
background 
In August  2017  Mr S found a leak in his house.  It had caused a lot of damage to the house
and to some  of Mr Ss contents. He made a claim to Aviva.
Aviva accepted the claim but it took five weeks to start drying  Mr Ss house. The house
wasnt habitable so Mr S was asked to move into alternative accommodation. Mr S initially
had to pay for the accommodation, and was subsequently reimbursed. This happened on a
number of occasions during the claim.
While the house  was drying Mr S was asked to get a quote from a contractor for the repairs.
He provided this to Aviva  who said it was too expensive, and they would arrange for one of
its contractors to take on the repairs. The relationship between Mr S and Avivas contractor
soon broke  down. Aviva made a cash settlement offer of £8236.40  to Mr S, based on its
contractors costs. This was declined  so Mr S was asked to provide additional quotes from
other contractors. He provided two other quotes.
Aviva met with the chosen  contractor and Mr S at the house in early  January 2018.
Following that, Aviva  agreed the schedule of works  with the contractor and told Mr S it would
transfer the money to him to pay the contractor  with. Mr S asked Aviva  to pay the contractor
directly, as he didnt want to be in a difficult  situation if the work wasnt  completed  according
to the schedule of works. Aviva explained it could only pay the money to Mr S and offered
him reassurance about the quality of the work.  It also provided  a guarantee.
Mr S received the money towards the end of January and made the first payment to the
contractor. The work  was being  completed  until the beginning of March 2018.  At that point
Mr S told Aviva  the work  wasnt finished  and the builder was no longer on site. Full payment
had been made by this time,  other than £500  or so that Mr S held back.
Between March  and May 2018 Mr S tried to get in contact with the claims handler at Aviva  to
discuss the ongoing claim. The work had still not been completed, Mr S said the house
wasnt habitable and he had no idea what he could do next.
Aviva didnt respond to Mr S, so he brought the complaint straight  to our service. He told us
that he had several  ongoing concerns about the claim. The work  hadnt been completed and
some of his contents  had been returned  from storage and were damaged. They  had been
removed from the house  while they were still damp, and mould was now visible.  He also felt
he hadnt been compensated for the electricity used  to dry the house  as well as loss of rent
because he couldnt  move a tenant in.
Aviva told our investigator a cash settlement had been made to Mr S in January 2018. It
acknowledged it had caused delays during the process and offered Mr S £500 compensation
for this.
Our investigator accepted that Aviva  had made cash settlement and it was entitled to do
that. But she asked  Aviva to do something more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. She said it
should:
Ref: DRN11016972increase the compensation payment to £600;
pay £143.75 for the electricity used during the drying out process;
pay a further inconvenience allowance of £450 to cover  the first 18 days  of        
March 2018;
pay Mr S £350 for the professional cleaning of the house;
pay Mr Ss loss of rent in full from 18 August 2017 until the end of March 2018. The
rent was calculated at £863 per month;
settle the Beyond Economical Repair  (BER) aspect  of Mr Ss contents claim, and
consider repair  or replacement of the damaged contents. More  information is
required from Mr S regarding  these  items.
Aviva accepted our investigators recommendations. But Mr S did not. He said he didnt
know that hed been offered a cash settlement as Aviva had liaised directly with the
contractor and agreed the schedule of works. He said hed made it clear  he didnt want  the
money transferred  to him. He also felt the electricity  payment should be increased and the
loss of rent should be ongoing as the house still wasnt  finished.
As Mr S didnt agree,  the complaint was passed  to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to ask Aviva  to
do something more. Ill explain why.
I accept the work hasnt  been completed to the required standard. This is clear from the
communication between  Mr S and Aviva, and also from the additional work Mr S has had to
do since the contractor  left his house.  Normally,  with a cash settlement, this wouldnt  be the
responsibility of Aviva .
But in this case I do feel it is the responsibility of Aviva, for the following reasons.
Mr Ss policy  with Aviva states that Aviva can choose to settle your claim by:
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing; or
payment.

So making cash settlement for the claim  is a decision it can make.  When an insurer  chooses
to cash settle it will pay the money  for the repairs to the consumer. It would have no direct
involvement in negotiating  the contract with the builder or overseeing or guaranteeing the
works at all. But that didnt happen here.
In an email exchange with Mr S in early January 2018 Aviva  explained  that the payment for
the repairs had to be transferred to Mr S rather than the contractor. That is how cash
settlement works, so Im satisfied Aviva  has given Mr S the correct information in that regard.
But, the email also states:
however I am the contracts manager  on your claim  and will remain  in contact and
appointed until all works are complete and we have your contents to return  so I will be a
point of contact  until then. To provide  more  re-assurance [contractor] and all Avivas  network
Ref: DRN11016973contractors would offer an industry  standard years guarantee  on all works complete and so
this will be offered upon completion.
I find this mis-leading on Avivas behalf, and I can understand  why Mr S does  too. I havent
seen a guarantee provided by the contractor chosen  to do the repairs, and the statement
from Aviva  suggests its giving Mr S the same guarantee as it gives  with its own network of
contractors. That isnt in line with offering cash settlement as I wouldnt expect Aviva to
guarantee the work of a contractor not provided  by it. Aviva met with the contractor at Mr Ss
house and subsequently  agreed the schedule  of works to be completed. This is more in line
with the repairing option in Mr Ss policy. Aviva was effectively controlling the work
completed and the builder  doing it. So its fair to hold Aviva responsible for the work
completed.
In order to put things  right and as Aviva has given  the guarantee to Mr S, I would have
recommended that its reasonable  for Aviva to honour the guarantee and arrange for the
completed works to be put right. But Mr S has chosen to complete the outstanding work
himself and with help at times that its been convenient for him to do so. Due to the nature of
his job, Mr S spends a long time out of the country. This has led to the work taking longer
than I would expect  it to take had a contractor undertaken it. Whilst I cant  hold Aviva
responsible for Mr Ss decision to get the work completed himself its reasonable for it to
cover his costs in doing this. Mr S has provided  some receipts for the items hes bought so
far and a list of outstanding jobs to be completed. The receipts confirm Mr S has paid £300
so far for materials. He still has some work to complete in the bathroom and kitchen but it
seems theyre only minor works. Its fair for Aviva to pay Mr S for the materials hes bought
so far, so Im telling  it to pay him £300. I also think its fair for Aviva  to cover the cost of the
outstanding materials,  once Mr S is able to show evidence  to it. Upon receipt of any
evidence Aviva can settle directly with Mr S.
loss of rent
Mr S is unhappy with the amount hes received for loss of rent. He had a tenant  in the house
until the end of September 2017. Aviva originally agreed to pay half the rental  income from
October 2017 until March  2018, when it was expected the house would be habitable. Our
investigator didnt  agree  with that and said full rental  income should be paid for that time.
Aviva agreed to this.
Mr Ss policy  entitles  him to loss of rent and the cost of alternative  accommodation  up to a
total of £10,000 if his house cannot be lived in. I appreciate that some  of the work had been
completed to a poor standard, and there were still some outstanding  jobs to be done when
the contractor chose not to return.  But I think the house could have been lived in from
March 2018. Mr S has provided a list of work that hes completed  and has still to complete in
the house. Whilst I understand that Mr S wants his house repairs to be completed in full, I
dont consider any of the jobs would have stopped the house  being lived in. So I wont be
asking Aviva to offer anything more than it agreed following the recommendation of our
investigator.
inconvenience allowance
Aviva also paid Mr S an inconvenience  allowance of £25 per day whilst the house was
uninhabitable. This was paid until the end of February 2018.  A further offer of £450  was
made by Aviva to cover the first 18 days of March 2018, at which point  it felt the house
became habitable.  As Ive said above, I agree  that the house was habitable at this time.
Ref: DRN11016974Whilst there were still outstanding works  to be completed, and some completed works to be
repaired, it wouldnt have  been unreasonable for Mr S to live in the house.
contents
Aviva has provided a list of items that were considered beyond economical repair.  It should
seek to settle these items with Mr S, if it hasnt  done so already.
damaged furniture
Mr S also received some furniture back from storage that had water damage. The items had
been removed  while they were still damp, and mould is now visible  since  their return. Aviva
has said it will consider repairing or replacing  these items  once Mr S has provided some
additional information about  them. Its asked to see photos of the damage,  along  with costs
to repair  or replace the items. Thats a fair thing for Aviva  to offer,  and Mr S will need to
speak to it about the required  information  to enable that aspect of the claim to be settled.
other losses
Finally, Mr S is unhappy with the amount Aviva has offered for his electricity costs while the
house was being dried out. Aviva  has provided  its electricity consumption  calculator which
estimates the cost per unit at 12p. Mr S has provided a bill showing the cost per unit at
13.93p. However,  Mr Ss bill covers  a much longer period than the house was being dried
out for. Almost two months more.  Its possible that the cost per unit increased  during that
time. Im satisfied that Aviva has calculated the electricity cost for the time it was using the
drying equipment  and I wont  be asking it to increase its offer here.
In order to tidy up the house, Mr S has had it professionally cleaned. Aviva  has agreed to
reimburse Mr S for this, upon  receipt of an invoice. Mr S has provided a receipt  so Im asking
Aviva to settle this.
compensation
Mr S has experienced a lot of delay since the claim was made in August 2017. The
investigator said that Aviva should pay Mr S £600  compensation for the upset  hed been
caused. Aviva agreed to pay this. I agree that this is reasonable. I say this because Aviva
didnt do enough  to manage Mr Ss expectations  regarding cash settlement and what  that
meant for Mr S. Aviva also delayed in responding to Mr S when he started to experience
problems with the contractor. I can understand why this has caused upset and frustration to
Mr S. And I think this compensation  is fair and reasonable  to reflect  the issues  experienced.
Its difficult to resolve all of Mr Ss concerns as there are still aspects of the work  to be
completed. But this complaint has to be moved  on, and I think this is the fairest  way to do so.
Aviva responded to my provisional  decision  and accepted it. 
Mr S also responded.  He said that he tried on several occasions to speak to Aviva and the 
claim handler at the time but he was ignored.  So he said he had no option but to take on the 
outstanding work himself  as he was losing out on additional rental income.  He said that hes 
lost out on precious time with his family  as a result of having  to spend the majority of his 
spare time decorating the house.
Ref: DRN11016975Mr S also asked for the loss of rent and inconvenience allowance  to be increased. He 
believes hes lost out on 15 months  rental income and a full year of inconvenience while the 
house has been unoccupied. 
Mr S made further comments about the contents not being settled and that information  has 
already been provided to Aviva regarding  this.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  
Mr S has said that he tried to get Aviva to speak to him on several occasions after the 
contractor hadnt  returned to finish the work. Ive accepted that in my provisional decision 
and made  an award of compensation that recognises the trouble Mr S was caused by the 
delays. But I also have  to consider Mr Ss progress since he decided to take on the 
outstanding work himself.  I appreciate  that Mr S says that hes lost out on precious time with 
his family  and the decorating work has had to be fitted in around  his work, which keeps him 
out of the country for long periods of time. But I cant hold Aviva responsible for the 
subsequent delays Mr S has experienced in finishing the work. 
Mr Ss policy  covers  him for loss of rent while his house  cannot  be lived in. Ive explained  in 
my provisional decision why I think the house could be lived in from March  2018 and I 
havent seen anything from Mr S to make me change  my decision here. While the house 
may not have been completed, it was inhabitable. 
Similarly with the inconvenience  allowance, Ive explained why I think thats reasonable 
previously. Mr S has made the decision not to live in the house,  but that doesnt mean its 
uninhabitable. As such, the inconvenience  allowance payment Ive recommended is 
reasonable. 
Ive asked Aviva to settle the contents  listed on their beyond economical  repair  list. I expect 
them to do this. There are also outstanding  items of furniture that have been  damaged.  Mr S 
has said that hes provided the evidence to Aviva already.  Mr S and Aviva need  to discuss 
the best way forward  to settle this part of the claim.
My provisional decision explains why I think the electricity consumption payment is fair 
based on the bills provided. I havent seen anything to change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Im telling Aviva Insurance  Limited to:
pay Mr Ss electricity  consumption for the drying out of the house. The amount to pay
is £143.75;
pay Mr S £25 per day inconvenience  allowance from 1 March  2018 until 18 March
Ref: DRN110169762018  a total of £450;
pay Mr S £350 to reimburse  him for having  the house professionally cleaned;
pay Mr S for loss of rent, in full, from 18 August 2017 until March 2018.  The monthly
rent should be calculated  at £863.  Pay interest  on the amount at 8% simple on each
monthly payment  from the date that payment was due, until the date of settlement*
settle the contents claim  for the items  on the beyond economical  repair  list;
give consideration to the rest of Mr Ss contents claim;
pay Mr S £300 for the completed  and outstanding work to be done in the house;
consider Mr Ss additional  costs for the materials needed for the outstanding works,
subject to suitable evidence;
pay Mr S £600 for the trouble and upset hes been caused by the delays.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva Insurance Limited  deducts  income
tax from the interest  it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off.                              
Aviva Insurance Limited should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Kevin Parmenter 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1101697