K820x#14complaint
Mr T says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ts credit card account when  he applied  for the card. Neither  Mr T nor HSBC has been 
able to tell us how Mr T applied for the credit  card and PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts compliant.  Ill explain why.
 Due to the time thats passed, HSBC  no longer  has copies of the paperwork Mr T 
signed when he applied for the credit card and PPI. I dont think  thats surprising or 
unreasonable. But it does mean that theres  not enough evidence for me to say that 
HSBC added  the PPI without  Mr Ts knowledge or consent.
 Ive also borne in mind that its likely that the premiums for the PPI would have  been  
shown on Mr Ts credit card statements. If he didnt want PPI, or didnt know  what the 
payments were for, I think its likely hed have queried this with HSBC. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that he did so. Overall, I think its more likely  than not that HSBC 
made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it  although 
I can understand why he may no longer remember this, so many  years later.
 In the absence of any record of how Mr T applied  for the credit card,  Ive assumed, for 
the purposes of this decision,  that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr T. This is to 
Mr Ts advantage, as it means that HSBC had a responsibility to check that the policy  
was suitable for him. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time.
 Mr Ts told us hed have been  entitled  to six months full sick pay from his employer at 
the time. But if hed made  a successful claim on the policy, it would have helped with 
his monthly credit  card repayments  for up to 12 months.  And it would have paid the 
same benefit if Mr T had been  made  redundant. Whats more,  it would  have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr T received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other  day-to-day  expenses.
Ref: DRN19577352 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Ts told us that he had some  savings when  he took out the 
credit card and PPI. But from the limited evidence provided, it doesnt look as if the 
savings would  have been  enough to live on for long, once Mr Ts sick pay or 
redundancy pay ended. I acknowledge that Mr Ts also told us that he was living with 
his parents and had no other  financial commitments at the time. But circumstances can 
change, and I cant be sure that Mr Ts parents would have remained in a position to 
support him. So taking everything  into account, I think  the policy  could have been 
useful for Mr T.
 Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think its likely  that Mr T chose  to take out the policy. So I think  he 
probably wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten  that now,  so 
many years later.  Based  on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time,  he 
wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example,  
provisions concerning unusual working  arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
The policy was competitively priced,  and I havent  seen anything  to make me think  
Mr T couldnt afford it. So I think it unlikely hed have made a different decision even if 
better information had been provided.  On balance I think hed still have  taken out the 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1957735