K822xcomplaint
Ms Q is unhappy with the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with her home  insurance  
claim for subsidence damage to her home.
background
In September  2014 Ms Q made a claim to AXA in respect of subsidence damage to her 
property. It was identified  that the cause was the drains which  were  in poor condition and 
needed extensive repairs. These  were  carried out, and repairs  done  to the property. Some 
months later Ms Q reported that cracks were reoccurring.  AXA noted that its loss adjusters 
had failed to arrange for further  monitoring after the drains were  repaired. It was then 
identified that the spreading of roots from trees in the neighbours garden were  at fault. Ms Q 
made a previous complaint about  this which was dealt with by this service in August  2016. At 
that stage AXA agreed to pay Ms Q £500  for its initial misdiagnosis of the cause and 
refunded £150  of premiums. Ms Q accepted that resolution.
In June 2018 Ms Q made a further complaint about  her claim. She was upset that there  were  
substantial delays in chasing the neighbour to cut down the trees causing the problem.  She 
also felt that AXA should be dealing with the damage to her fencing  and patio  caused  by tree 
root damage. And whilst  it had paid for further  repairs to the drain it did so as a new claim, 
deducting a further excess.  She was also upset that AXA had at her request removed a loss 
adjuster from her case as the point of contact  but that he had continued to advise on the 
claim. Finally Ms Q was upset about a refusal to renew her policy.
AXA arranged to pay Ms Q a further  £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  but 
thought it was carrying out the right approach to the claim. It pointed  out that the 
underwriting service/broker (P) who arranged the policy had transferred the insurance to a 
different insurer without its input. Subsequently  the neighbour  removed the offending trees.  
And AXA said it would carry  out further monitoring to decide what  the next stage would be.
Our investigator thought that AXAs offer to carry out further monitoring was reasonable. She 
proposed that it pay a further £1,000 compensation, which it agreed to. She further said it 
should consider  whether it was liable  for the patio and fencing  repairs.  But she didnt think it 
needed to take further  action over the drains  or remove the loss adjuster from overall 
supervision of the claim.
I understand that the monitoring has now been carried  out and that AXA will now be meeting 
with Ms Q to consider further  repairs.
I issued a provisional decision. This was because  though I essentially agreed  with the 
investigators approach,  the monitoring had been completed and the issue  with the 
insurance renewal had been  updated. I said I didnt think AXA needed to take any further 
action regarding the premiums. I said it should reconsider the damage to the patio and 
fencing as it appeared likely  to be related either  to the original  subsidence or AXAs lack of 
action concerning the tree roots.
AXA agreed with my provisional findings.  I understand  the compensation of £1,000 has been 
paid.
Ms Q didnt agree and is unhappy with my findings. She pointed out that the tree stump  
hadnt been ground out or poisoned  and there is still a large tree in the corner  of the garden. 
Ref: DRN10731612She advised that AXA had revisited the property and had said that the repairs could go 
ahead. She says AXA has told her if there  are further problems, the case could be reopened. 
She isnt happy  with this and would like it all to be resolved now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cost of insurance/transfer of policy at renewal
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms Q complains that the cost of her insurance went up and she had an increased excess. 
We wouldnt expect the cost of the insurance  to increase because of the ongoing claim until 
its resolved. Thats  because, with an ongoing claim, the cost of it, and the increased risk 
wont be known until the claim is resolved. But an insurer does have a right to increase its 
premiums if it considers there is an increased risk because of a claim. Ms Qs insurance 
policy was transferred to a new insurer  by P at the 2017 renewal. AXA wasnt  involved nor 
was it, I understand,  consulted in that process.  I understand  that the premium didnt increase 
with that new insurer,  but the excess was £2,500 rather  than £1,000.
But I understand that in fact the excess increased  whilst the policy was still with AXA.  It 
previously increased the premium at the renewal  in August 2016. But this was resolved at 
the time in the previous  complaint by a partial  refund of premiums.
In 2017, as Ive said, the policy was transferred to a new insurer  by P. I understand that the 
contract between P and the new insurer provides stipulations that that insurer  continue  Ps 
offering of cover for properties affected  by subsidence, already on their books.  Whist I 
understand that the new insurer may increase  the premium while  the subsidence claim is still 
progressing, that is a matter Ms Q will have to take up with that new insurer and/or P.
The increase  in the excess  applies to new claims for subsidence. Since this would only apply 
to new subsidence  claims (which I think unlikely to happen while  the present claim is 
ongoing) I dont think it unfair for AXA to have  increased the excess as this isnt dependent  
on how the present  claim is resolved. 
At this stage, I wont require AXA to take any further  action .
As neither party has commented on this I will make no further comment. 
In my provisional decision I further said:
delays and handling of the claim
Its clear that since August 2016 the claim hasnt progressed as well as it should have done. 
In 2017 a loss adjuster attended the property, noted that the neighbour was starting to cut 
down the offending trees and failed to follow this up. In fact the neighbour had only cut down 
one tree and reduced the height of the other  one. In June 2018  the loss adjusters started 
further monitoring to see if the property was still moving. It found  that there was still some  
movement and AXA then started to chase up the neighbour  in earnest, arranging for its 
solicitors to write letters threatening to get an injunction and to make them liable  for any 
Ref: DRN10731613further damage. Finally in early  2019  the neighbour cut down  the remaining tree responsible  
for the subsidence.
AXA then agreed  to a period of four months further monitoring which  I understand has now 
been completed. On the assumption that the property is now stable it should go ahead with 
further repairs which it will agree with Ms Q. If its not stable  then AXA should consider an 
engineering solution to the repairs, to prevent further damage.
Bearing in mind that Im looking at the claim from August 2016 onwards, I think the chasing  
up of the removal  of the tree took too long and there was a period  of a year when no action 
was taken. I know the neighbour was difficult but it appears that he responded to the 
appropriate steps taken by AXAs solicitors.  I agree that further compensation should be paid 
for this. AXA has agreed with our investigators proposal of a further  £1,000, and I think 
thats reasonable. If it hasnt already done so AXA should pay the further £1,000.
involvement of a particular loss adjuster
Ms Q said she didnt  want a particular loss adjuster dealing with or having anything  to do 
with her claim. AXA agreed  to another loss adjuster being Ms Qs point of contact, but as the 
senior consultant  in that area the first loss adjuster had to remain  in overall control of the 
clam. Ms Q wasnt happy with this as she didnt feel that the loss adjuster in question  would 
advise properly as he hadnt supported her previously regarding her various concerns.
I can understand if Ms Q didnt want contact with a particular loss adjuster  I believe she felt 
he was rude to her and didnt support her. And in those circumstances, to take the heat out 
of the situation  it was better, as AXA has done,  to replace her point of contact.
But as the original loss adjuster was the senior consultant  in that area I think it was 
impractical to take him off the case altogether. Im sure the person concerned would  be able 
to give dispassionate advice. I think AXA has done what was reasonable to deal with Ms Qs 
concerns.
I can understand that Ms Q remains unhappy  with the situation.  She feels  that all parties  
have been irresponsible and managed to gloss over their incompetence. She feels it was 
entirely reasonable for her to request that the loss adjuster be taken off the case and 
remains unhappy that he's still involved. 
Nevertheless I still have the view that bearing in mind the circumstances of this case, it 
wouldnt have been practical for AXA to remove that loss adjuster altogether.  
damage to patio and fence
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms Q says that the tree roots have caused  damage to her fence  and patio. AXA says that 
the damage is gradual, not caused by the subsidence. It said tree root damage would be 
covered under accidental damage but Ms Q didnt  have that cover under her policy.
Our investigator made  the point  that the lengthy  delay in the trees being dealt with might 
have caused this damage. So far it hasnt been established if the stumps have been ground 
out or poisoned, so the roots might  continue to grow.
Ref: DRN10731614Under the subsidence cover in the policy there  is an exclusion  for patios, .gates and fences 
unless the private  dwelling is also affected at the same time by the same event. 
AXA has agreed to look at the damage  in conjunction with the repairs  to the house.  If the 
damage to the house happened at the same time and by the same  cause i.e. the spread of 
tree roots, then its certainly  likely  that the damage  to the fence/patio  should  be covered. 
Alternatively its equally possible  that the damage occurred afterwards but only because  
AXA didnt ensure that the tree roots werent still growing.
I should make it clear here that I think it likely that either of those scenarios is equally 
plausible. I will require that it AXA reconsider its position on this. And unless it can say that 
the damage to the fence/patio was independent of either of those causes, it should factor 
those repairs into the claim.
I think AXA should reconsider  this part of the claim.
I understand that Ms Q agrees that this part of the claim should  be reconsidered. She is 
unhappy however that the stump has still not been  ground out or poisoned,  so the roots 
could still be growing. She believes  there  is no doubt that the damage to the fence/patio is 
most certainly due to the lapse  of time.  She is also unhappy that AXA has now proposed  that 
repairs go ahead without  taking any further  action concerning the tree.
I intend to confirm my decision that AXA should  reconsider  this part of the claim.  This is 
because if Ms Q now wishes to challenge  any further expert  assessment of what  is now 
needed, this would have to be the subject of a further complaint and possibly further expert  
evidence. AXAs obligation is now to carry out a lasting  and effective  repair  this would 
mean that, in its expert assessment it would need  to find that the tree roots  were  no longer 
posing a risk. I cant require it to take any further action which isnt assessed to be 
necessary. Its clearly in AXAs interests as well to ensure that its repairs  are effective  and 
lasting.
drain repairs
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms Q said she had to get repairs done  after another blockage  was found. I understand that 
she paid for the repairs to be done without advising AXA.  It agreed  to repay her but 
deducted £100 excess as it couldnt establish  that the damage was connected  to the 
subsidence claim.
I understand that Ms Q was frustrated  at the way the claim was going.  But she should have 
contacted AXA to allow it to inspect the damage  before  she had the repairs  carried out. As it 
is, without any expert  diagnosis of the damage, I think  it was fair for AXA to treat this as a 
new claim and to pay Ms Qs cost less the excess. 
Ref: DRN10731615As neither party has commented on this I will make no further comment. 
overall
I see no reason to change  my provisional findings as set out above which  are now final and 
form part of this final decision. I believe the compensation paid is reasonable bearing in mind  
the sort of awards we have  made  in other similar cases.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Having noted  that it has paid the £1,000 compensation I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to:
continue to deal with the repairs necessary if it concludes that the home is now 
stable.
if it is not stable, consider what engineering  solution is necessary to prevent further 
damage
reconsider the claim for damage to the patio and fencing.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1073161