K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he hasnt had the surrender values of two endowment  policies provided 
by the Prudential Assurance Company Limited.  He has also had poor customer service from 
the business. He wants the surrender values paying to him.
background
The business upheld  the complaint in part. It agreed it had provided poor service. It had 
failed to do what it said it would on more than one occasion. It offered Mr W a total of £125  
for those  failures. It didnt  however  uphold the main  part of the complaint. It said as far as its 
records went, cheques  for the surrender values were sent as required after a number of 
security checks, including on identity. As far as it could  see the money  had been  paid out as 
intended.
Mr W pointed  out a number of errors in what the business had said. He suggested that those 
errors and his recollections  from the time meant  what the business had said was unreliable.  
He maintained that he had never  got the money he asked for. He was unhappy and came to 
us.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She, in effect, agreed with the business. 
Although she could see what Mr W was saying, she thought, on balance,  that the money had 
been paid as the business said.
Mr W remained unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision. I have been 
passed the file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that I dont uphold this 
complaint. That is I think  what the business  has offered for poor service is a fair outcome 
here. I know  this will disappoint Mr W.
Mr W has clearly been through a very difficult time and I hope things have improved for him. 
However the only party I have any jurisdiction over is the business here. If there  was or is a 
problem with the postal authorities or any third party there is nothing  I can do about that. 
Firstly at the risk of repeating what has already been said,  the evidence  here is 
contradictory. Of course I can never know whether what the business says is true, equally I 
can never know if what Mr W says is true. All I can do is form a view of the most likely  
sequence of events here. I take all evidence at face value - I assume it to be an honest 
recollection from the time, (and let me make  it absolutely clear I accept Mr W is honestly 
repeating what he remembers from the time), but equally I cant ignore documentary  
evidence however old or incomplete. 
I have looked  at what the business has produced. It is very much  what  I would expect. There  
was no requirement  on businesses to track  receipt of payments or obtain receipts from 
policyholders. I cant penalise the business  for only keeping  what it has.
Businesses only have  to keep records for six years. Recording payments, returned  post,  
uncleared cheques and other irregularities has been  for a very long time very important to 
Ref: DRN12696952businesses. Whether it is because of the need to protect a business  from fraud  or theft, 
regulatory requirements or simple good  governance, it has always been  an issue which  has 
been taken seriously.  Increasingly, requirements  to do with money  laundering, ID theft, data 
protection and other complex obligations  have increased the requirements  on businesses  to 
track what happens to payments, but only for the minimum time required.  
All this means that the business records are likely  to be a reliable (but not infallible) account 
of what has happened. Of course  mistakes are made, there may even be fraud or theft. But 
as I say above I can only deal with this business. I dont know what  happened here, I cant  
know. All I can do is say what is, my view, the most likely thing to have happened.  
My decision  is that the most likely thing to have happened is that the money  was paid out by 
the business as it said it was. Whether Mr W received the money but in his distress  doesnt 
remember or whether  a third party intercepted the money I cant  say.
But what  I can say is that I can see nothing to suggest the business  got something  wrong  or 
that, for some other reason, it would be fair to make the business pay out for these policies 
when, on the evidence, they have  already  done  so. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  If Mr W hasnt done so, if he wishes to accept the business  
offer in respect of poor service he should contact  it direct. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
15 March 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1269695