K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that when they wanted  to move house, their mortgagee Santander 
UK Plc unfairly refused  to give them a new loan. This caused them  to incur an early 
repayment charge  (ERC).  To resolve their complaint they want  Santander  to refund the 
ERC.
background 
On 29 March 2016 Mr and Mrs T took a mortgage with Santander pursuant  to an offer dated 
18 March 2016.  It was a capital  repayment mortgage for a term of 12 years.  There  was a 
fixed interest product.  The interest  rate was fixed until 2 June 2021. The mortgage offer 
contained an ERC which would become payable if Mr and Mrs T repaid the mortgage loan 
on or before expiry of the fixed  rate. 
Mr and Mrs T say that in 2018  they decided to move closer to their children  and 
grandchildren. However Santander refused to give them a new mortgage, and made a 
substantial ERC. Mr and Mrs T dont feel they were treated fairly.
Having sold the property Mr and Mrs T made a complaint to Santander.  They said the 
mortgage documents said the mortgage was transferable to a new property. But instead 
theyd had to re-apply, and were refused. They asked Santander why it was making an ERC 
in the redemption figure when it was Santanders  decision to refuse  them.
Santander said its underwriter had raised queries. Mr and Mrs T were moving over 2.5 hrs 
away from their current location. Santander  wanted  an explanation for the move, as it had 
concerns due to variances in the income derived  from their limited company and whether the 
move would have  an impact on their income.  The underwriter had noted that their income 
had drastically decreased.  Despite additional information from their broker the application 
was declined. Mr and Mrs Ts combined income  had decreased  from £116,223 in 2016 to 
£13,994. Santanders underwriters didnt consider that the new mortgage  was affordable.
The income evidence  provided raised  questions around whether this was sustainable. The 
underwriter had suggested Mr and Mrs Ts broker might wish to revisit the income  declared,  
as it appeared  from the 2017  Sa302s that there may be other employed income. However  
no details had been provided of any other  employment, and additional  comment  was made 
regarding use of pension  income received. Santander had put the application  on hold to 
await additional information, but no further  information had been provided.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this and brought their complaint to our service. In response 
Santander said the change of location had led to concerns about whether this was to be 
Mr and Mrs Ts main  home or how future  income would be affected. The income had 
significantly reduced (dividends previously over £100,000 reduced to £14,000, business 
turnover reduced by more  than £160,000) so the application was initially declined. However 
this was appealed and so further information was requested. This wasnt  forthcoming so the 
application was eventually declined. It appeared that because the new house  was a new 
build property Mr and Mrs T had a tight exchange  date so they applied  to another lender 
without continuing  with the requested information.  Without this information, the underwriters 
werent prepared  to accept the application.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had been  fair by refusing to port Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage. Had Santander allowed the porting to happen, Mr and Mrs T would have had a 
Ref: DRN18575542mortgage for another 10 years  without paying the ERC. But the investigator thought the ERC 
was a cheaper option than continuing with the mortgage until the end of the term. For this 
reason, she didnt recommend that Santander refund the ERC because this would require a 
mortgage to be in place and Mr and Mrs T to commit to a mortgage  again.
But as Santander  shouldnt have refused the porting, Mr and Mrs T should be compensated 
for this. The investigator  recommended Santander  should pay £350.00 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs T by declining the porting  application. Mr and Mrs T 
didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to look into the complaint.
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage said:
19 Transferring your loan to a new mortgage
19.1 This condition applies if you notify us that you wish:
a) to pay off the money  you owe us on completing a sale of the property; and
b) at the same time, to complete  a mortgage with us under which  we will lend you money  on 
the security of another property  that you wish to buy.
19.3 Where this condition applies:
a) We will accept  your application for the transfer  balance to be transferred to the new 
mortgage unless  we reasonably think that:
(i) in all the circumstances  (including your financial circumstances), the risk of your being  
unable to meet your commitments under the new mortgage would  be significantly greater 
than the risk of your failing to meet your commitments under this mortgage;
(ii) you could not afford to repay the transfer balance with interest by the end of the 
repayment period  which  would apply  under  the new mortgage;
(iii) the risk that we would suffer a loss if we realised  our security would be significantly 
greater under the new mortgage than it is [sic] this mortgage.
20 Refunding an early  repayment charge on a transfer of your loan to a new mortgage
20.1 If you enter a new mortgage with us within three months of the date on which we 
discharge the mortgage, we may refund all or some of any early  repayment charge which 
you paid at the time when the mortgage  was discharged.
Condition 19.3(a)(i) didnt  apply  because the risk posed by Mr and Mrs Ts income reduction 
would be the same under the new mortgage as it was under the old one. Nor was there  any 
reason to suppose  that the new property  would pose a greater risk of shortfall on sale, so 
19.3(a)(iii) didnt apply  either. So this left 19.3(a)(ii), under which  Santander, in order  to 
refuse Mr and Mrs Ts application, would have  to reasonably think that they couldnt repay 
the borrowing  by the end of the term of the new mortgage. 
Ref: DRN18575543The amount  secured by the new mortgage  would be the same as under  the old one. The 
March 2016 offer shows that the amount borrowed  in 2016 was about  £161,000. This would 
have reduced by the amount of two years capital repayments,  and Santanders note dated 
7 September 2018 shows that the new loan applied for was £132,099  and that this was the 
same amount as the old one. The 2016  purchase price is shown as £500,000. So 
Mr and Mrs Ts equity  would be some £367,901 plus any increase in the value of the 
property. The broker says it was sold for £600,000.
The underwriters note dated 11 October 2019 (which I assume should read 2018) records  
that this property was Mr and Mrs Ts second  home.  So if Mr and Mrs T were to have any 
difficulty in repaying  £132,099  by the end of the term, or in maintaining the monthly 
payments, they could  sell one home  and live in the other.
Condition 19.3(a) says will not may and I dont  consider that Santander could reasonably 
think that Mr and Mrs T couldnt afford to repay the new loan of £132,099 by the end of the 
term of the new mortgage. In the event they contributed £121,384 from pensions  and 
savings. It seems to me that despite  its concerns  about the income position, Santander 
should have accepted the application,  in which event the ERC wouldnt have been payable.
That is the contractual position. There is then the question  whether this is affected by any 
regulations. Its relevant  to note here that despite  the terms of condition 19.3(a), the 
mortgage offer inconsistently said may not will and required compliance with lending 
criteria and an affordability assessment. And under condition 5.3(b) the mortgage  offer 
prevails.
The rules  are contained in the Mortgage  and Home  Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (known as MCOB), which is the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook for 
mortgage regulation.  Theyre  at MCOB 11.6.
The requirement to carry out an affordability  assessment is contained  in rule 11.6.2. But 
thats qualified  by rule 11.6.3, which says that the requirement doesnt apply if the 
application doesnt involve further  borrowing  (except  to add fees to the loan);  and there is no 
other change to the terms of the mortgage  likely to be material  to affordability.
Mr and Mrs T werent looking  to take further  borrowing. Nor was there any other change to 
the terms of the mortgage likely  to be material to affordability. So this case  falls squarely 
within rule 11.6.3  and so there  was no requirement to carry out an affordability 
assessment.
It seems  to me therefore that Santander  wasnt obliged  by the regulations  to depart from its 
contractual obligation, and that its refusal  of Mr and Mrs Ts application for a new mortgage 
was unfair  and that they ought  to have been able to take advantage of Condition 20.1 and 
have the ERC refunded. Santander was still obliged under rule 2.5A to act in accordance with 
Mr and Mrs Ts best interests,  but I dont consider it was in their best interests to compel  them to 
give up their pensions and savings.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the ERC  be refunded  because  as a result of Santanders 
refusal, Mr and Mrs T were compelled to use their pensions and savings. She said that as 
the return on these  was likely to have been  lower than the interest  rate on the mortgage, 
they hadnt suffered a financial loss. But that amounts to saying  that a business may unfairly 
refuse a porting application to any borrower  who has savings.  It will nearly always  be 
cheaper to spend  savings  than borrow money. But Mr and Mrs T were  entitled to port and it 
was for them, not Santander, to decide whether  to use their pensions and savings instead.
Ref: DRN18575544For all these reasons I consider that the ERC  should be refunded  with interest.  I dont have 
any document confirming  the amount of the ERC which  Mr and Mrs T paid, but I assume 
theres no dispute about that. In their complaint to Santander dated  4 October 2018 
Mr and Mrs T put it at approximately £7,500. It would be helpful  if the parties could confirm 
the amount in their responses  to this provisional  decision.
I agree  with the investigators recommended award  of £350 for the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr and Mrs T by Santanders refusal of their application, for the reasons she gave.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional conclusions  I confirm them  here.
Neither party accepted my invitation to confirm  the amount of the ERC, but I assume  theres 
no dispute about that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs T:
the amount  of the ERC;
simple interest on that amount at 8% per year from the date it was paid by Mr and Mrs T 
to the date it is refunded by Santander;
£350 for the trouble  and upset caused  to them.
If Santander considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1857554