K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds handling of he and his late wifes 
claim, and its decision  to decline cover for some of the treatment she received. 
My references to AXA PPP will include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs H held a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP.  Originally they held 
AXA PPP policies through Mr Hs previous employer. But after that scheme ended,  Mr and 
Mrs H took a new policy with AXA PPP in July 2017.  
The new policy  included a term called the six week safety net. And the terms stated Your 
policy does not cover treatment which the NHS  can provide  within six weeks of when you 
need it.. 
In October  2017, Mrs H had surgery to remove melanomas at a private hospital  Hospital 
M. Prior to her treatment, AXA PPP had advised it could cover the medical  practitioners  
costs in full, but the hospital costs  could only be covered at 60% due to the hospital  not 
being on its approved list. And it said it would need  to seek confirmation that the treatment 
was unavailable  through the NHS within six weeks.  
Mrs Hs surgery  took place before AXA PPP had confirmed whether or not it could authorise 
the treatment. And it later advised the costs wouldnt be covered, as it had received 
confirmation that the treatment was available on the NHS within  six weeks. 
Mrs H went on to have chemotherapy  treatment in January 2018. The type of chemotherapy 
was confirmed to be unavailable on the NHS within six weeks, so AXA PPP agreed to cover 
the costs. However  it said it could  only cover 60% of the hospital costs, as Mrs H was being 
treated at a hospital which was not on its approved  list. AXA PPP said it had given Mrs H the 
option to use a different hospital where  the full costs would be covered  by her policy  
Hospital G. But it said she had declined this and chose to have her treatment at Hospital M. 
In April 2018, Mrs H was diagnosed with brain metastases and her treating medical 
practitioner recommended  that she urgently needed to undergo cyberknife surgery.  Mrs H 
was at this stage still receiving chemotherapy  at Hospital M. The hospital  contacted  AXA 
PPP for authorisation of the cyberknife surgery and told Mr and Mrs H that AXA PPP had 
said the procedure  may not be covered. Due to the urgent need for the surgery,  Mr H made 
arrangements with his bank to transfer  funds  to Hospital M so that the surgery for Mrs H 
could go ahead as soon as possible.  
After confirming with the medical practitioner,  AXA PPP said it would be unable  to cover the 
costs of the cyberknife surgery as it had been  advised the treatment  was available  on the 
NHS within six weeks. 
Very sadly Mrs H passed away  in June 2018. 
Mr H complained to AXA.  In summary  he said he was unhappy  with the following: 
the time taken to establish whether or not treatment was covered; 
Ref: DRN17437572declination of cover for treatment required very urgently; 
customer service  issues,  including poor communication; 
the claims process; and 
the amount  of excess deducted. 
AXA PPP responded to the complaint. And in summary it said:
it had assessed  the different treatment claims correctly based on policy  terms regarding  
the six week safety net and the applicable rate for hospitals not on its approved list. And 
Mrs H had been given  the option  to use an approved hospital for her chemotherapy, but 
had declined  this; 
it agreed to cover  the chemotherapy costs, after receiving confirmation from treating  
Dr A, that the specific type of treatment Mrs H needed was unavailable on the NHS;
it had declined to cover the costs for the melanoma removal as it received confirmation 
from the medical practitioner   Mr P  that the treatment  was available  through the NHS 
within six weeks. However, it said Mr P later provided conflicting and unclear information 
and advised Mrs H could  not have received treatment within six weeks through  the 
relevant NHS trust. So AXA PPP said it made  further enquiries, and sourced information  
from an NHS website which published cancer  compliance statistics for each trust. It said 
this showed 100%  compliance for the relevant trust, with no patients waiting more  than 
31 days for the same type of cancer. And it said because of this, it had declined  the 
claim;
itd identified a customer  service issue which had caused a delay  when sending  a form to 
Mr and Mrs H. And it offered £100 in compensation in relation to this; 
the excess amounts  it deducted were correct; and
Mr H had been underpaid by £631.80 in relation to one of the hospital invoices, so it said 
it would  send this amount  to him. And it said it identified it had overpaid  by £1,326 in 
error in relation to a different invoice. But it didnt ask Mr H to pay this back.  
AXA PPP sent a cheque for £100, but in error  it addressed this to Mrs H, after she had 
passed away. It apologised  for this and increased  the amount of compensation to £200. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs  response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think AXA PPP had 
declined Mr and Mrs Hs claims unfairly. However she said she thought  the compensation 
should be increased to £350  due to all of the errors  which had been made with payments, 
and the impact this had on Mr H. 
AXA PPP responded accepting the investigators  view. 
Ref: DRN17437573Mr H also responded. He rejected the investigators  view and asked  for a decision to be 
made by an ombudsman. He raised the following key points: 
the 60% cover for hospital M was not something  which he was questioning; 
AXA PPP should have  contacted  Mr P again for clarification about why he had originally 
said the treatment  was available on the NHS  within six weeks;  
Mrs H could not receive cyberknife surgery through the NHS unless she stopped having 
a chemotherapy  treatment which was only available privately; 
AXA PPP were slow in making  decisions about cover which caused Mr H and his wife 
a huge amount of stress; and
£350 is not a fair amount of compensation.
And so the case has been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand and sympathise with Mr Hs position, in that he believes at least  60% of the 
costs of the cyberknife surgery should  have  been  covered under the policy, as it was crucial 
that Mrs H underwent the surgery very urgently. And I appreciate that he has said he and his 
wife paid much more towards  their AXA PPP policies over the years than they ever received 
in benefits. However,  I must look at the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs latest  policy when 
assessing what AXA PPP was required  to do. And having done  so, I dont think  AXA PPP 
has done anything  materially  wrong.  Im aware that this will come as a great disappointment 
to Mr H. And I will explain my reasoning.
Mr H has also complained  about  the sale of the policy  and the way the six week safety  net 
element of the policy was explained. A separate complaint has been raised about this, so 
I wont be commenting on it any further in this decision. 
Melanoma removal 
Ive seen evidence  that Mr P told AXA PPP that the melanoma removal  surgery was 
available through the NHS  within six weeks. After  AXA PPP contacted Mr P for clarification, 
he sent a letter which stated the treatment  was not available through the NHS within six 
weeks.
After receiving conflicting information about the availability of the treatment from Mr P, I think  
its reasonable that AXA PPP took the decision to seek confirmation directly  from the 
relevant NHS trust. And after not receiving a response, it sourced the information the NHS 
makes available  online about its adherence to targets. In the circumstances I dont think  this 
was unreasonable. And as these statistics  showed  that no 31 day waiting time targets  had 
been breached  for the relevant period, I dont think AXA PPP declined  the claim for this 
treatment unfairly.  
Ref: DRN17437574Chemotherapy and cyberknife surgery
AXA PPP agreed  to pay the medical  practitioners costs and 60% of the hospital costs in 
relation to Mrs Hs chemotherapy treatment  at Hospital M. Ive reviewed the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Hs policy regarding hospitals which are not on the insurers approved list. And Ive seen 
evidence that AXA PPP made Mr and Mrs H aware of the costs which it would cover at 
Hospital M. And it gave  the option  of a different hospital where the full costs  would  be 
covered by their policy. However, Mr and Mrs H chose to use Hospital M. And because  of 
this, I dont think AXA PPPs decision regarding cover for the chemotherapy  was unfair.
Whilst receiving  chemotherapy at Hospital M, Mrs H was told that she needed to undergo  
cyberknife surgery very urgently. Although AXA PPP had agreed  to pay 60% of the costs  of 
the specific chemotherapy treatment which was unavailable on the NHS, it doesnt 
automatically follow that it must also cover other treatment at the same  hospital,  if that 
treatment is available  through the NHS within six weeks. And AXA PPP received 
confirmation that the cyberknife surgery was available on the NHS  within  the six week  
timeframe. 
Mr H has said he thought  as the surgery was needed as an emergency,  the policy clause 
regarding six weeks wouldnt apply. I can understand Mr Hs viewpoint here. However  the 
policys six week safety net makes  no exception for treatment which  is required very 
urgently or as an emergency. And it references  that treatment required as an emergency 
should be sought via the NHS. So I dont think AXA PPP has done anything  wrong  in 
declining cover for the cyberknife surgery. 
Mr H said he was told that as Mrs H was receiving chemotherapy privately at Hospital M, 
she wouldnt  have been able to continue if she were  to have  the cyberknife surgery through 
the NHS.  He said the treating hospital advised patients could not switch between  private and 
NHS treatments. Whilst I understand the very difficult position  this put Mr and Mrs H in, this 
is the hospitals policy, so its not something  which I can reasonably  say AXA PPP is 
responsible for. 
Customer service  issues  
AXA PPP has apologised to Mr H for mistakes it made with payment for invoices, and its 
confirmed that it had corrected this by making an additional payment to Mr H. It also said it 
had caused a delay in sending a necessary form during one of the claims, and it offered 
£100 in compensation due to this. It later increased this to £200  after incorrectly  addressing  
the payment to Mrs H some considerable time after she had passed  away.  
The investigator said she thought the compensation should be increased to £350 due to all 
of the payment errors  made, and the distress and inconvenience this caused to Mr H. 
Im in agreement with the investigator that £350 is a fair amount  of compensation for the 
payment errors which have been identified to have been made by AXA PPP. Im aware Mr H 
feels strongly that AXA PPP was too slow to confirm whether or not it would cover each 
claim. However Ive seen  no evidence that AXA PPP caused any avoidable  delays. Ive 
found that at the point of each claim,  AXA PPP sought information from the relevant medical 
professionals within  a reasonable timeframe. 
Ref: DRN17437575my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint in part. I direct 
AXA PPP to pay Mr H a total of £350  in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
AXA PPP should  pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it Mr H has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it should add simple interest to the compensation at a 
rate of 8% per year,  from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743757