K820x#14complaint
Miss J has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc hasnt reported information  about her 
current account and credit card to credit reference  agencies (CRAs).
background
Miss J has held a current account  and a credit card with HSBC for many  years.  Early in 2019 
she checked her credit  file and discovered that it didnt  contain any information  regarding the 
above accounts which had both been well maintained. Miss J asked HSBC to explain why it 
hadnt been reporting information on her accounts to CRAs.
HSBC told Miss J it hadnt reported her current account because  data sharing wasnt  
included in the account terms and conditions when it was opened. It sent Miss J a form for 
her to complete saying  she consented to sharing of her data and said it would begin  
reporting her current account  data once shed given her consent.
HSBC initially told Miss J her credit card wasnt  being reported because  it had made  an error 
which it said it would correct. It paid Miss J £200 compensation for this.
HSBC subsequently told Miss J it hadnt made  an error regarding the credit card. It said the 
terms and conditions of the credit  card also didnt provide for data sharing when it was 
opened. It apologised for giving  Miss J incorrect information and paid her an additional £50.
Miss J wasnt happy with HSBCs response  to her complaints. She wants  it to report historic  
information about her accounts to the CRAs  and she referred her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. HSBC  said it had altered 
the account terms and conditions  in 2005 and gave  Miss J the option  to consent to data 
sharing at that time.  It couldnt provide any evidence of this due to the passage  of time but 
our investigator thought  it was likely to have happened.  He also thought the compensation of 
£250 HSBC had paid Miss J was fair in the circumstances.
Miss J didnt  agree with our investigators  recommendation.  She disputes  that she was given 
the opportunity  to consent to data sharing  in 2005. She says she would have given her 
consent if shed  been asked. Shes also referred to another decision made by this service in 
which a bank was required to report historic data in similar circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate, in the context of this decision, that HSBC hasnt been able to provide  
evidence that Miss J was given the opportunity to consent to data sharing  in 2005. But we 
wouldnt expect HSBC  to keep information from around fourteen  years  ago. And it wouldnt 
be fair for me to penalise  HSBC for not being  able to provide something its under no 
obligation to have kept.
Ref: DRN18989652I appreciate Miss J doesnt  agree that she was given the opportunity to consent in 2005. But 
thats her recollection  of an event that occurred  many years ago. I wouldnt expect anyone  to 
be able to recall exactly  the contents  of every letter they received from their bank fourteen  
years ago.
So I have  to make my decision based on the information that is available to me. Here,  that 
information is limited, because of the time thats passed. But I havent seen anything that 
suggests to me that HSBC should have started reporting the conduct of this account any 
sooner than it already has. So I cant fairly say theres any reason that I can tell HSBC  it 
should do any more  here.
Ive considered the previous decision Miss Js referred to. But every  complaint we consider 
in this service is decided on its own individual facts. Ive had regard  for what  Miss J has said 
about this and Ive read the decision shes mentioned.  But Im only considering the individual  
circumstances of the complaint shes brought to us. And Im not persuaded I can reasonably 
require HSBC to report Miss Js historic data to CRAs.
Miss J has suffered unnecessary trouble and upset as a result of being  given  incorrect 
information by HSBC. But  Im not telling HSBC to take any further action in relation to how 
this account is being  reported by CRAs. So Im satisfied that the £250  HSBC has paid Miss J 
is sufficient to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes had and I wont require it to 
pay her any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1898965