K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a 
store card.
A retailer sold the policy, but the insurer, now called AXA France  IARD, has accepted  
responsibility for the sale.
background
Miss B applied for a store card in 2004,  and at the same time the retailer sold her a PPI 
policy. 
Miss B thinks the policy was mis-sold.
The lender,  on behalf of AXA, looked  at the complaint and thought  it should  be upheld. It 
said it would  offer to put Miss B in the position  shed be in if she hadnt bought the PPI. But it 
said Miss B had claimed on the policy  and that shed got back more when she claimed 
than shed paid for the policy. AXA wants to deduct the amount Miss B claimed  from the 
compensation  and says this means  Miss B gets nothing.
Miss B doesnt agree. She says the claim she made  was for price protection, not PPI. She 
says this was a feature of the store card,  not connected to the PPI. So she doesnt think  its 
right that AXA deduct this from her offer.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Bs complaint, and thought what  AXA had done was fair.
Miss B didnt agree. The complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA agrees  that Miss Bs complaint about  the sale of PPI should be upheld.  In this decision, 
Im just looking  at whether  what it has offered  is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer as far as possible in the position  theyd 
be in if they hadnt bought the policy.
But where theres been a claim on the policy, Id usually  say it was fair for the business  to 
deduct this from any compensation: if the consumer  hadnt bought the policy,  they couldnt 
have claimed on it.
In Miss Bs case, Im satisfied that the policy she bought included price  protection as one of 
its benefits. AXA has sent us a copy of the application form for the PPI. At the top right hand  
side theres a section that reads:
Remember to add Account Cover  to your application  it gives  you complete peace 
of mind!
Ref: DRN18643542Purchase Protection
Payment Protection
Price Protection
Costs just 1.5p for every pound on your monthly outstanding balance.
AXA has also sent us a copy of the terms and conditions for the cover,  which explains that 
price protection was one of the benefits  of the policy.
Im also satisfied all three types of cover were a single product: Miss B couldnt opt for some  
parts of the cover and not others.  So if Miss B hadnt bought this policy, she wouldnt have 
been able to claim for price protection.
For this reason, I think its fair for AXA to deduct  the price  protection  claim from Miss Bs 
compensation.
Ive gone on to look at how AXA has worked  out compensation. Based on the records Ive 
seen, AXA charged  Miss B £30.08  in premiums. And AXA has worked  out that Miss B paid 
an extra  £1.17  in interest charges. But when Miss B claimed on the policy,  she received 
£253.49.
As Miss B received a lot more when she claimed  than she ever paid towards the policy, she 
hasnt lost out from having  PPI on her account.  In fact, shes  better off because of the PPI 
than she would have  been if she hadnt bought  the policy. I dont think it would be fair to 
make AXA pay Miss B more.
Ive thought about what Miss B has said. She says she didnt know she was buying a 
combined 3-in-1 policy. She says its not her fault that AXA packaged the cover this way, 
and feels shes being penalised by the sales practices of the store.
But this doesnt  change the fact that, thanks to the PPI, Miss B is in a better financial position 
than she would be in if she hadnt bought the policy. As Im satisfied Miss B hasnt lost out 
from being sold the PPI, I dont make a further award.
In all the circumstances, I think AXA France IARDs offer is fair.
Ref: DRN18643543my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think its fair for AXA France IARD to deduct the successful  claim 
from compensation for mis-selling  PPI. So I make no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1864354