K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that TransferWise Ltd wont refund disputed transactions  made  from his
account. Hes also unhappy  TransferWise Ltd blocked his account  and didnt  release  his
remaining funds.
Background
Mr D says that fraudulent  disputed transactions totalling £2,950.56  were made from his
TransferWise Ltd account between  29 April 2018  and 3 June 2018.
Mr D initially contacted TransferWise on the 3 June 2018 to say hed noticed that fraudulent
transactions had taken  place on his account  starting on the 14 April 2018. Mr D said that he
thought hed lost his card when travelling, but at the same time hes also suggested that his
card might have been cloned. On being  asked, if hed lost his card, why he contacted
TransferWise on the 26 April 2018  to ask for his card to be unblocked Mr D said he was now
only disputing transactions from the 29 April 2018. Mr D also explains he believes the
fraudsters may have overlooked the PIN or used a camera  to record it.
Mr Ds also unhappy that TransferWise blocked  his account and restricted access  to his
funds. On the 3 June  2018 TransferWise decided  to review Mr Ds account and on the
11 June 2018  it was closed with immediate  effect. On the 6 July 2018 Mr Ds remaining
funds were refunded  to him.
TransferWise investigated and decided not to refund Mr Ds disputed  transactions,  saying
they believed  them to have been authorised  by Mr D. TransferWise said theyd acted  fairly  in
closing Mr Ms account, relying  on Section 25 of the terms and conditions  of his account and
before releasing  Mr Ms funds they needed to complete appropriate  due diligence.
Mr D wasnt happy with TransferWises response  so brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the transactions should  be refunded to Mr D. In
summary she felt unable to conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently, and
thought it most likely theyd been authorised by Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree with out investigators outcome and asked for his case  to be reviewed by
an ombudsman. So its been  passed to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Mr Ds complaint, I came to a similar conclusion to our investigator but for 
slightly different reasons.  I issued my Provisional Decision on the 15 April 2020  giving both 
parties until the 15 May 2020 to provide their response. TransferWise accepted my 
Provisional Decision without any further comment. Mr D didnt accept my decision, and said 
he didnt make the transactions. 
My Findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Disputed Transactions:
Ref: DRN10606162Generally, TransferWise can hold Mr D liable for the disputed  transactions if the evidence
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not,
on its own, enough to enable TransferWise to hold him liable. So I also need  to think  about
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr D consented to the
transactions being made.
From what  Ive seen so far, I dont think its unreasonable for TransferWise  to conclude that
Mr D authorised the transactions. This is because:
Some of the disputed transactions were made using Mr Ds genuine card and PIN.
But theres no convincing  explanation for how a fraudster could have known Mr Ds 
PIN. There are two possible explanations,  the first that Mr Ds PIN was observed as 
he suggested. But Mr D last carried out a genuine chip and PIN transaction  on the
26 April 2018 which was three days before the first disputed transaction. It seems
unlikely a fraudster  would  wait three days before using  Mr Ds PIN to carry out a
transaction. The second possibility is that Mr Ds PIN was viewed via his online
account, but for this to be achieved Mr Ds online security details would need to have
been compromised   which theres  no evidence for  and the fraudster would either
have needed to use Mr Ds usual device or received a text message or phone  call on
Mr Ds phone to confirm  their identify. Both of these explanations seem unlikely.
Mr Ds not been  consistent when detailing  the transactions which he says he didnt
authorise. Initially Mr D said he hadnt carried out any transactions since the
14 April 2018 but later said he was now only disputing transactions  since  the 29 April 
2018.
Mr Ds been asked  to provide  evidence for how he funded  his expenses during his
holiday in Mexico, Columbia and America at the time of the disputed  transactions, but 
hes been unable  to do so. Mr Ds advised  that he used cash earnt from his
employment, but he hasnt provided  bank statements to evidence these withdrawals.
Ive seen evidence  that Mr D was likely to have been present in the locations  where
the disputed transactions occurred. It seems unlikely  that a fraudster would be in the 
same locations at Mr D, especially when Mr D travelled across  a number of countries 
during this time.
It seems  unlikely  a fraudster would stop using Mr Ds card when there were available
funds remaining in his account.
Mr D reviewed his online banking on three occasions between the 29 April 2018 and
the 3 June 2018 but didnt raise  the disputed transactions with TransferWise  until the 
3 June 2018.
Taking everything into account,  on balance, I think its likely Mr D authorised  the disputed
transactions and therefore TransferWise are entitled  to hold him liable for them.
Account closure  and withholding of Mr Ds funds:
A bank  is entitled  to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
Ref: DRN10606163But, before a bank  closes  an account it must  do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds account state that there  are certain  circumstances in
which they can immediately close a customers account. The terms and conditions state:
25. When we can end this agreement or suspend our services
25.2
We may suspend or close your TransferWise account without notice in certain
circumstances. We may at any time suspend or close your TransferWise Account and/or end
this Agreement  without  notice if:
(a) you breach any provision of this agreement or documents referred  to in this
agreement;
(b) we are requested  or directed to do so by any competent court of law, government
authority, public agency, or law enforcement agency;
(c) we have reason to believe  you are in breach of any applicable  law or regulation;  or
(d) we have reason  to believe you are involved in any fraudulent  activity, money
laundering, terrorism financing or other  criminal or illegal activity.
Although I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy  with the restriction placed on his account,
businesses have a legal  obligation  to protect  the security of their accounts and to comply
with various laws and regulations.  Mr D agreed  to this term as a customer and its a
reasonable term. Im satisfied that TransferWise  were acting in line with its legal and
regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account  when
it reviewed Mr Ds account.  Having looked at the account activity  I can see why
TransferWise had concerns and decided to review his account. So I dont think its done
anything wrong  when it blocked  Mr Ds account and didnt allow  him access  to his funds.
I realise that this will be disappointing  to Mr D and I appreciate that the closure of his
account likely caused him inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial  decisions
about who it offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a customer.
But, they can decide they no longer want to do business with individuals.  Thats  because
they have the commercial  freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im
satisfied that in Mr Ds case TransferWise  exercised its commercial freedom legitimately
when it decided to close his account.
TransferWise accepted my Provisional Decision.
Mr D responded to say, he didnt  make the transactions. Ive thought  about what Mr Ds said, 
but for the reasons Ive explained above I think, on balance, Mr D authorised the disputed 
transactions and therefore TransferWise are entitled  to hold him liable for them. 
My Final  Decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Ref: DRN10606164Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1060616