K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was unable  to activate a Park Card Services Ltd (PCS) pre paid 
card. He thinks hes been discriminated  against.  He wants PCS to review  its method  of 
identifying individuals.
background
PCS said in its final response that it provides  a pre paid card platform  that issues the 
Love2shop card. In order to comply with money  laundering regulations it performs an identity 
check. But in Mr Bs case it couldnt verify  his identity and its sorry that as a result he is 
unable to use the Love2shop card hed received. Its also said that the fact Mr B couldnt 
pass its customer due diligence check wasnt related  to his ethnicity. Its simply that from the 
name, address  and date of birth supplied it couldnt run a successful electronic check.  
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
We cant comment on a business security processes.  But we can consider whether 
its applied its process correctly.
When Mr B tried to activate the card online PCS collected some basic  information  
about him. It passed this onto a third party company  for an identity check. 
Unfortunately in Mr Bs case this came back as a fail. Although  the exact reason for 
this isnt known  its likely this was because Mr B couldnt be located on at least two of 
the databases used. 
PCS has followed its process  correctly. The process was completed electronically. It 
hasnt treated Mr B any differently  to anyone else. PCS hasnt done anything  wrong  
or discriminated against Mr B.
Mr B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says his 
frustration isnt because  he cant use the card. Its because PCS says he doesnt have an 
identity. It should  ask an individual to send  in identification.
PCS has confirmed when  the electronic customer due diligence check  is run through  another  
company it returns a pass or fail. In order to pass it works on a 2+2 which  means the 
company looks for a name/address on one data base and a name/address or name/date of 
birth on a second data base. The company it uses for this check holds information  from 
financial institutions, utility  providers and government. If the check isnt passed it wont  allow 
the person to activate the card. The check is done  electronically with no human intervention  
so its impossible for there  to be any element of discrimination or racism as Mr B suggests.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
PCS carries out a customer due diligence check through  another company before activating 
a card.  Its explained  that this relies  on some very basic information provided online by the 
Ref: DRN15591742customer and that the check  is carried out entirely  electronically by verifying the information  
given against  that held in two databases.
In Mr Bs case  PCS correctly followed this procedure but unfortunately the check was a fail. 
Mr B has interpreted  this as him not having  an identity. I can understand how frustrating and 
upsetting this was for Mr B given his particular personal circumstances and background. But 
it appears this result  was in fact most likely  because the information  he gave simply couldnt 
be verified on the two databases.   
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  PCS process or the customer  due diligence check 
were subject to any form of discrimination as Mr B has suggested.
Mr Bs unhappy with the security process  PCS used. He says it should ask for identification  
from a customer. But this service isnt a regulator.  We cant  require PCS to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs strength of feeling I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1559174