K820x#14complaint
The Executors of the estate of Mrs P have complained about an equity release mortgage 
sold to Mrs P and her late husband, Mr P, in 2002  and a further advance sold in 2006 by 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. The Executors say that, although  the product was not 
mis-sold, they believe it could have  unfair  terms under  the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 and 
could be misleading  in terms of information  and explanation given to Mr and Mrs P.
The Executors also say that they were  given a figure for probate  purposes of £67,904.43,  
but by the time the loan was repaid, Aviva asked for £76,684.90. The Executors  want the 
estate to be compensated by Aviva for the difference of £8.780.47. 
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs P took out an equity release mortgage on their home, with a business  
which is now known as Aviva.  At the time Mr P was 64 and Mrs P was 63.
The total loan was for £17,779.25  plus an application fee of £270.75 (giving a total of 
£18,050) at an interest rate of 7.79%. This loan was regulated under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 and was also sold subject to the Mortgage Code. This was a voluntary code of 
practice of selling and lending  standards  which  Aviva subscribed to. It ceased to exist on 30 
October 2004.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs P borrowed a further £11,514 at an interest  rate of 6.5%. This was a 
regulated mortgage  contract subject to Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
The terms of the equity release mortgage provide that no repayments are required. Interest 
rolls up into the debt, which is repayable either  when the surviving borrower dies or goes into 
long term care. If the loan is repaid in other circumstances, an early repayment charge may 
apply.
I am sorry  to note that Mr P passed away in May 2007. Mrs P passed  away in November 
2016. The mortgage, including the rolled-up  interest, was repaid in March 2017. This 
amounted to £76,684.90. 
In 2019 one of the Executors (and also Mr and Mrs Ps son) complained to Aviva  that he 
believed the mortgage was mis-sold. He says that it is worrying  to him that his parents 
werent fully advised  as to the interest  charged against the loan amounts and how this would 
accrue year by year. He thinks that this was a mis-sold product and that there  is some  
recourse against  Aviva because of this.
The Executor was also unhappy that the final redemption  amount paid in March 2017  
differed from the figure theyd been  quoted  as a probate valuation  in 2016,  a difference  of 
£8.780.47.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. Its final response letter set out the sales  process for both 
the 2002 and 2006 loans. Aviva was satisfied the products  hadnt  been mis-sold. Aviva said 
it could not trace the details of the figure it provided for a probate  valuation but the 
redemption figure  of £76,684.90 was correct.
Ref: DRN14817752Dissatisfied with Avivas response, the Executors  brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. As well as initially alleging the product was mis-sold, the Executors  
were also unhappy  at the way interest had been applied, and at how Aviva had dealt with 
their complaint. The Executors believe that the estate is due a refund  of £8.780.47, which is 
the difference between the probate figure and the final redemption figure.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that Aviva  had followed the correct process when  selling  the product. The investigator 
clarified that we dont  provide an auditing  service and so we were not going to carry out our 
own calculations to see if interest had been  properly applied. He was satisfied with Avivas 
explanation that Aviva had originally quoted an incorrect settlement figure.  
The investigator looked at the statements provided  for the two loans in November 2016 and 
noted that these  added up to the correct amount  of £74,976.03. By the time the mortgage 
was repaid in March  2017, additional  interest had increased this to £76,684.90. 
The investigator also explained to the Executors that their own dissatisfaction with the way in 
which Aviva  had dealt  with the complaint  didnt  fall within our rules.
The Executors disagreed with the investigators  findings. Theyve  made detailed points in 
response, which I summarise. 
The Executors concede  that the product was not mis-sold, but they wonder whether the 
product meets all the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  
They also consider Aviva should be held accountable for giving  them an incorrect figure for 
the probate valuation. They are unhappy  that Avivas errors  have  gone  unpunished. Finally, 
the Executors consider  Aviva, in providing equity release mortgages, preys on those who are 
not as privileged  as others. They remain dissatisfied at the way Aviva  has dealt with their 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs P was a consumer,  and 
so met the definition  of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. After the death, her 
eligibility to complain vested in her estate. More importantly  for this complaint, the rules say 
that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised 
by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, the Executors are bringing 
the complaint  on the estates behalf.
But I must explain that, although  the Executors are representing his mothers  estate, it is 
Mr and Mrs P who were  Avivas customers. The Executors role is to bring Mrs Ps complaint 
on her estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a relative, 
solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle the 
Executors to air their own grievances about Aviva, because they are not its customer;  their 
role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that the Executors have expressed their own 
concerns about  what they perceive to be Avivas failings  and I do not doubt  their strength 
Ref: DRN14817753of feeling about this. But because the Executors are not Avivas customers, this final 
decision is limited to consideration  of Mrs Ps estates complaint about Aviva.
Mr and Mrs P hadnt complained about  the mortgage previously,  and it seems  that it was 
some time after the mortgage was settled in 2017 that this complaint was raised  with Aviva,  
in 2019. Without a specific  complaint from Mr and Mrs P about the mortgage during their 
lifetimes, I have  considered generally whether Aviva has done anything  wrong.
The first advance was sold subject to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Mortgage 
Code. The second advance was sold subject to MCOB.  The Executors think that the terms 
of these two loans might have breached  the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (or any previous  
legislation). They have  not specified  what they think those breaches  might be.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a regulator, and so its outside  my remit to 
determine whether  the contract terms for both the 2002 and 2006 loans comply with 
whatever Acts of Parliament or Statutory Instruments  were in force at the time. Thats the 
role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). It would be up to the FCA to 
take action against Aviva if it considered  Aviva  to be in breach of legislation  or was including 
unfair terms in its products.
Ive looked at the loan agreements for both the 2002 and 2006 loans and Im satisfied they 
contain all the information Id expect  them to about the product and how it operates. There  is 
nothing in any of the documentation  from Aviva which leads  me to conclude that Aviva  didnt 
follow the correct  sales process in either  2002 or 2006. Full fact finds  and letters  of 
recommendation were  provided. Mr and Mrs P were  both in their 60s at the time they took 
out these loans and so there is nothing to suggest  they were  vulnerable  or had any cognitive 
impairment that Aviva could, or should, have been  aware of.
Interest has been  applied in line with the rates specified in the contracts. We dont audit 
accounts or recalculate interest. But looking at the illustrations provided at the time and the 
amounts required  to redeem, there is nothing which leads me to conclude  that Aviva has 
miscalculated or overcharged interest.
Overall, Im satisfied Aviva did nothing wrong when it arranged these loans in 2002  and 
2006. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Turning now to the redemption figure, Aviva has acknowledged that the probate  statement 
dated 1 November 2016 was inaccurate  and showed the amount outstanding  to be about  
£67,000. Its accepted this was a mistake. The Executors are concerned  that Aviva has not 
been held to account for this mistake  and punished for it. I will explain here that we do not 
fine, punish or sanction businesses.
In any event, I note that in the same letter which sent out the probate statement, Aviva also 
included a redemption  statement dated  7 November 2016. This was accurate and showed 
the outstanding amount to be about £75,000. Given this, Im satisfied  that the Executors 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  from that letter that one set of figures theyd been 
given was inaccurate. Yet they didnt query it at the time, only some  years later after theyd 
repaid the full amount  due to Aviva.
The probate statement wasnt a redemption figure, and the eventual redemption  statement 
was correct. Given this, there  is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order  
Ref: DRN14817754Aviva to reimburse the estate for the difference between the inaccurate probate  statement 
and the actual redemption amount. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The Executors are unhappy at the way Aviva has dealt with the complaint. I note that, after 
the complaint  was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service  in 2018, the Executors 
continued to correspond with Aviva, and were  unhappy  that Aviva  did not answer their 
grievances to their satisfaction but simply referred  them to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
 Complaint-handling is not a regulated activity, and so the way in which Aviva has dealt with 
the Executors  complaints  is not something  I can consider here. But generally  where  a 
complaint has been referred to us, we wouldnt consider it appropriate for a business to 
continue to correspond  with the consumer  about  the complaint once we have  been  asked to 
consider it.
I also note that in responding to the investigator the Executors have raised a new issue. 
Normally we wouldnt consider a new complaint raised during the course of the investigation 
of another complaint unless Aviva  has had time to respond to it. But Im satisfied that the 
answer to the Executors  concerns is in the documentation.
The Executors say that the loan documentation  shows that the first loan was for £17,779.25, 
but they contend that Mr and Mrs P received only £17,100. They  base this claim on a Key 
Facts Illustration (KFI)  in their possession provided to Mr and Mrs P on 8 April 2002, which 
provides an illustration for a loan of £17,100, based  on an estimated property value of 
£90,000. 
But there was a second KFI dated  23 April 2002  for £17,779.25, based on an estimated 
property value of £95,000 and it was on the basis of this second KFI that the application and 
mortgage proceeded. Given this, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ps first loan was for 
£17,779.25 and so there is no discrepancy in the amount  of interest  charged  by Aviva since 
2002.
After taking everything into consideration, Im not upholding any part of this complaint.
I appreciate that the Executors will be disappointed at my decision. After reading  everything 
theyve provided, I dont underestimate their strength of feeling, not just about Aviva but the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  The Executors arent obliged to accept  my decision,  and if 
they dont, it wont  be legally binding, either on Aviva or the estate. If my decision is not 
accepted, the Executors  will be free to pursue their grievances against Aviva  in court, should 
they wish to do so. They  might want to take advice from a qualified solicitor  before 
embarking on any legal proceedings.
Ref: DRN14817755my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Executors on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs P to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1481775