K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the time taken by Barclays Bank UK Plc to transfer his SIPP to another 
provider was unreasonable.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued last month. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the offer Barclays had made to Mr D to 
settle the complaint was fair. I invited both parties  to let me have any further comments and 
evidence. Barclays has said it has nothing further  to add at this stage,  but has confirmed that 
it hasnt yet paid the compensation to Mr D. Mr D has provided us with some further 
comments.
Although I am only summarising here what Mr D has said,  I have considered  his entire  
response carefully before writing this decision. Mr D says that his reason for raising this 
complaint was not monetary, but to highlight the complete  breakdown in Barclays 
management, administration and accountability during the early stages of the changeover. 
He says these  failings caused him great mental  and emotional stress. He says that his wife 
had made  a similar transfer request a few weeks later and Barclays  dealt  with her request in 
a far more  professional manner.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont intend to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision.
As I said in my provisional decision I can understand this must have been a very difficult  time 
for Mr D. He was moving a significant value of assets from a provider who he had used, 
I understand without  problems, for many  years.  So he would be keen to ensure that 
everything progressed  quickly and that he was able to manage and have visibility of each 
stage of that transfer process.
I dont think that everything  did go as well as it should have  done.  There were  some delays 
in making the transfer. And it seems that the information Barclays  provided to Mr D was at 
times confusing and incomplete.  But I still think  that those problems didnt cause any direct 
financial impact on Mr D. It doesnt seem for example that he was prevented from making  
any time critical investments.
But in saying  that, in no way do I underestimate the stress that the problems with this 
transfer placed on Mr D. And it is for that very reason that I have considered  a payment for 
the trouble and upset Mr D has experience  would  be appropriate. I remain of the opinion  that 
the offer of £400 that Barclays has made  in this regard is appropriate, and should be paid to 
Mr D on his acceptance of this final decision.
Ref: DRN13207102my final decision
I consider that the offer made  by Barclays Bank  UK Plc is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I direct Barclays to make  a payment of £400 to Mr D in respect of the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13207103EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
In mid-2017 Barclays made some changes to the platform that was used by its customers to service 
their investments. One of the accounts involved in this migration was Mr Ds SIPP account.  Although 
the migration doesnt  appear to have caused any specific problems to Mr Ds account, he was 
unhappy with the new platform and decided  to transfer his SIPP to another  provider. In this decision 
I will call that new provider N.
Mr D first contacted N at the start of August  2017 and asked that it request the transfer  of his SIPP  
from Barclays. But N has told us that at that stage Mr D hadnt completed the opening of a new SIPP 
with it. That new SIPP was opened on 16 August and N says the transfer was requested shortly 
afterwards.
Barclays says that it first received the request for the transfer on 31 August. It says that it then wrote 
to Mr D to ask him to complete some paperwork to authorise the transfer, and it received this back on 
19 September. It seems  there was then a delay,  caused  by Barclays, and the transfer process started 
on 6 October.
All the stock assets in Mr Ds SIPP were sent to N by 21 November. But there was a further delay in 
the cash  fund being transferred to N  that didnt  complete until 16 December. And Barclays has said 
it would continue to sweep that cash account to transfer to N any income payments that were later 
received.
Mr D first complained to Barclays  about the time the transfer  was taking on 30 August 2017.  From  the 
information that has been  sent to us it seems  that was less than two weeks after N says it had sent 
the transfer request, and before Barclays says it was received. 
Barclays says that it normally expects transfers such as this to complete within  12 weeks. And while  
transfers are in progress its customers are unable to access their account information online. But 
Barclays says that customers can still make use of its telephone service to get information and make  
transactions on their account. I can see that Mr D did actually buy some additional  shares  on 29 
September 2017 so I assume he was able to service  his account  by telephone.
Barclays didnt finalise its response to Mr Ds complaint  until after the transfer had completed.  At that 
time Barclays acknowledged  that there had been some delays with the transfer and that Mr D had 
received a poor customer experience. As a result it offered to pay him £400 for the inconvenience 
hed been caused.  It also sent a food hamper to Mr D by way of an apology.
While we were considering this complaint, Mr D raised an additional  problem with Barclays. Hed 
been charged  some fees on his account during the transfer  process, and without online access  to his 
account he wasnt able to check  whether  these were correct. As a further gesture of goodwill  Barclays 
refunded all the fees that Mr D had been charged since his transfer had started. So I dont think 
I need to consider the fees that were charged any further in this decision.
Mr D didnt think the compensation  Barclays had offered  to pay him was sufficient  so he brought his 
complaint to this service. His complaint has been assessed by one of investigators.  She agreed with 
Mr D that the compensation offered by Barclays wasnt  enough. So she asked Barclays to pay an 
additional £150 to Mr D. Mr D accepted that assessment,  but Barclays still thought  its original offer 
had been fair. So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN13207104my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Mr D and 
by Barclays, and the information that has been  provided by N. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts,  I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what  
I think  is more likely  to have happened.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
I first need to decide when I think it would be reasonable for me to say that Barclays should  have 
started to progress Mr Ds transfer request. I dont  agree  with what Mr D says when he considers the 
process should have started on 1 August  2017.  At that time he hadnt opened the necessary SIPP 
with N. From what N has told us, it wasnt in a position  to make the transfer request to Barclays until 
the middle of that month.
Barclays first records of receiving a transfer request are on 30 August. That is a couple  of weeks after 
N says it sent the request to Barclays. I dont know the reason for the delay,  whether it was the time 
taken for Barclays to receive the request, or the time taken for Barclays to process it. But, on balance, 
I dont think it would  be right for me to conclude that the delay was caused by Barclays, or in fact that 
the time taken  for the process to start was unreasonable.
Barclays says that it then sent the authorisation paperwork to Mr D, and it was returned on 
19 September. Barclays accepts that it failed  to process that paperwork in a timely  manner, and as a 
result Mr Ds transfer was delayed by just less than three weeks. That was the responsibility  of 
Barclays, and I will take that into account when  reaching  my decision on this complaint.
Barclays has shown us that it had transferred all of Mr Ds stock holdings to N by 21 November. 
I appreciate that Mr D might not have been able to see those transfers on his new account  
immediately. But it seems to me that would  most likely be as a result of reconciliation difficulties at the 
new provider. That isnt something I would  reasonably say was the responsibility of Barclays.
But it took Barclays another three weeks to transfer the rest of Mr Ds assets  he held over £14,000 
in cash  at the time of the transfer. I havent  seen anything to make me think that this delay prevented 
Mr D from making  an investment that was time critical, but I can understand that the delay  would have 
been frustrating for him at a time he wanted to ensure everything had moved correctly  to his new 
provider.
Overall, it took around  15 weeks  from when  Barclays first became aware of Mr Ds transfer request to 
the completion of the transfer. Whilst that is longer  than Barclays  would normally expect  I dont think  it 
is excessively so. And I havent seen anything that makes  me think Mr D has been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of the extended timeframe.
But it is clear that Mr D has been frustrated at the time this transfer took. So I do think that Barclays 
needs to pay some compensation to Mr D for the trouble and upset he has been caused. Ive thought 
carefully about what would be a reasonable payment in the specific circumstances of this complaint.  
And having done so Ive concluded that the £400 that has been offered by Barclays is reasonable.  
So, if it hasnt already  done  so, I intend to direct  Barclays to make that payment to Mr D.
Ref: DRN1320710