K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct)  said it would take 
Mrs Hs Employment and Support Allowance (ESA) payments into account  when 
assessing a lending application and then changed  its mind.  This meant they couldnt  borrow 
as much as they wanted when they remortgaged.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties  so I wont repeat it again  
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First direct has admitted it made a mistake and that it shouldnt have just excluded  Mrs Hs 
ESA payments  outright,  so I dont need to make a finding  on that. What I need to decide is 
what needs to be done to put things right.
Mr and Mrs H completed  a remortgage with some  of the extra  funds they wanted with first 
direct in April 2019; I understand they received around £40,000 of the £55,000 they wanted.  
Following discussions with our investigator, first direct agreed not to just exclude Mrs Hs 
ESA payments  from any future  application,  instead it will consider them,  applying  its normal  
lending policy and affordability criteria around  that.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H arent in a position  to submit a new application currently  
because of Mr Hs work  situation due to the pandemic, but first directs agreement is there 
ready for them when  theyre back on an even keel. However I would make it clear that the 
only thing first direct will be doing differently is not automatically excluding  Mrs Hs ESA 
payments; all the other parts  of first directs  lending policy and affordability checks  will be 
completed as normal. I just mention that for completeness so it is clear  to both sides  that 
were not telling first direct to just accept  any application from Mr and Mrs H, instead it 
shouldnt just automatically exclude  Mrs Hs ESA payments in the way it did.
Im satisifed thats a fair resolution to the underlying issue, so now I just need to consider 
what is fair compensation for what has gone before. Our investigator  thought  £750 was fair 
compensation. First direct  counter offered £200.  Mr and Mrs H wanted  more.
Ive very carefully considered everything that both sides have said around this and having 
done so I agree with our investigator  that £750  is fair and reasonable. I wont be awarding 
more as even  if Mrs Hs ESA payments hadnt been  automatically excluded theres no 
guarantee the full amount  of the extra  borrowing would have been agreed and completed. 
Whilst an earlier failed purchase application went to offer that doesnt mean this remortgage  
application would have been agreed - and completed - for the full amount even if Mrs Hs 
ESA payments  werent automatically excluded. 
As our investigator said, no amount of money can change what  happened  or help how 
Mrs Hs feels. Were not the regulator  and its not our role to fine or punish a business,  that 
means our awards cant be punitive. Mr and Mrs H got most of the money they wanted and 
there was never any guarantee  their application  for a higher amount as part of this 
remortgage would have been  successful  anyway. For that reason I cant  award more 
compensation.
Ref: DRN12351782However, first directs  offer of £200 is too low. It has admitted it made  mistakes  and its clear 
that it had various  opportunities  to put things right over the time this has been going on. 
Mrs H was in a vulnerable  position  and it is clear from her submissions how much she has 
been affected by this. Having considered  everything, Im satisfied £750 is fair and 
reasonable in recogition of the distress that was caused to Mrs H especially. To be clear, 
that £750 is a total compensation amount, so if Mr and Mrs H have cashed the cheque for 
£100 that first direct  had previously sent them then a further £650 will be due.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) to pay a total of 
£750 compensation to Mr and Mrs H (less  any amounts already received/cashed). Under  the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1235178