K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about the interest  charged on a loan he was given  by Everyday
Lending Limited (EDL).
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in November 2020 that I summarise 
below.
Mr A was given a loan of £10,000 by EDL in May 2017. The loan was due to be repaid with a
monthly repayment of around £489 over a 48-month loan term. I understand the interest rate
applied was 49.9%  with an APR of 63.1%. The amount of interest  payable  on the loan was
around £13,511 so Mr A had to repay in total around  £23, 511.
Mr A says he wasnt told about the high interest  rate when he took out the loan. He says he
was told he would get a reduced  rate of interest because  of his good  payment history and he
thinks the interest that hes been  paying  is astronomically  high.
I explained that my decision  deals only with Mr As specific complaint  about the level and 
amount of interest  charged on this particular loan. As far as I understand, Mr A has not 
complained to EDL about irresponsible lending or the affordability  of this loan or any of
the other loans hes taken  with EDL. So I said that I am not making any findings about 
whether or not EDL was right to provide Mr A with this loan or any other  lending.
From what  Id seen from the customer records that EDL provided,  Mr A took the loan for
£10,000 in May 2017 (loan  agreement  ending 2893). Mr A says he wasnt told about the
interest rate for his loan.  EDL says it was common practice during the application process
for the advisor  to highlight key aspects  of the loan agreement, including  the interest to be
paid and the annual percentage rate (APR).
Mr A recalls  being offered a reduced interest rate due to his good payment history  with EDL
but he didnt think  this preferential rate was applied. EDL says that during Mr As
application, a branch  manager requested a reduced  interest rate in recognition of Mr As
good payment  history  and custom. But it hasnt confirmed if a reduced rate was applied.
There is limited  information about  what actually did happen when Mr A applied for his
£10,000 loan but given  that this loan was apparently  being  used  to consolidate existing
lending, I thought its likely there  was some  discussion  between Mr A and EDL when the 
loan was arranged.  From what both parties  had told us, I thought its likely that Mr A was 
given the impression by EDL that a reduced  or preferential rate of interest would be applied  
to his loan.
EDL has provided further information about  Mr As borrowing history  which  I understand to
be as follows:
Agreement  
ending Amount Date Interest 
rate APR
4988 £2,560 27/03/2015 56.90% 74.40%
7735 £6,000 18/11/2015 43.90% 53.90%
8638 £8,575 31/08/2016 46.90% 58.40%
Ref: DRN196435622893 £10,000 23/05/2017 49.90% 63.10%
It seemed to me that, rather than being given a preferential  or reduced rate of interest for
his £10,000 loan (ending 2893), Mr A was in fact paying a higher rate of interest and higher
APR than his previous  two loans with EDL.
The loan application documents  set out the interest rate and APR. So I thought  its likely that 
Mr A was given information  about  the interest rate. But I didnt think it would  be reasonable 
for EDL to expect Mr A to recall the interest  rates and APR from his previous lending over a 
long period  I thought its likely that Mr A reasonably relied on what  EDL told him about the 
interest rate and that he was given  the impression that the rate offered was preferential or 
reduced in some way - compared  to his previous loans.
Taking everything into account,  I thought  that EDL misrepresented Mr As £10,000 loan as 
having a reduced or preferential interest rate. I thought section 56 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 applies here - as Mr A says hes been  misled about a credit  agreement covered by 
this provision and hes complaining about  something that happened  before he took the 
credit.
I considered whether or not Mr A would still have  taken the £10,000 loan,  if he had realised 
that the rate of interest  applied to the loan was not preferential or reduced as EDL
had suggested.
EDLs records  appear to show that Mr A was consolidating his previous lending  and that
£8,289 of the loan was used to settle his previous loan with EDL,  with £1,710  provided  to Mr
A in cash. I thought its likely that Mr A was under the impression that re-financing  his 
previous loan in this way, with further lending at a reduced rate of interest, would help to 
repay his existing debt more cost effectively and help his financial position overall. I thought  
its reasonable to say, in the circumstances,  that had Mr A realised that not only was he not
being given a reduced rate of interest,  but the lending was in fact more  costly than his
previous two loans,  then its likely  he would have  declined to take the £10,000 loan from
EDL.
Taking everything into account,  I thought  EDL treated Mr A unfairly because  it 
misrepresented how preferential  the rate of interest was when it agreed the £10,000 loan in
May 2017. It was EDLs  responsibility to give Mr A clear, fair and not misleading information
when it agreed to provide the loan to him. I think EDL failed  to do this and instead gave Mr A
the impression  that the interest rate he was being  charged for his loan was reduced or
preferential in some  way. Whereas in fact it was higher  than had been applied  to his two
previous loans. So I said I intended to uphold this complaint and that EDL should put
things right for Mr A.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. After  hearing the 
outcome by telephone, Mr A says he is happy  with my provisional decision. EDL has 
confirmed that it has received  my provisional  decision  but it hasnt provided any further  
comment. The deadline for further evidence or comment in response  to my provisional 
decision has now passed.
Ref: DRN19643563my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision.  
As I havent  seen any further evidence or comment that changes  my mind about this 
complaint,  I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
I uphold this complaint  and EDL should  put things right for Mr A.
Putting things  right
I'm satisfied that EDL acted unfairly  when it misrepresented the rate of interest  on the loan it
gave to Mr A in May 2017. I think its likely Mr A wouldnt  have taken the loan, if a
misrepresentation hadnt taken place.
So as Mr A is now being expected by EDF to make  repayments on a loan he wouldnt have
taken, had he not been treated unfairly by EDL, I think  he stands to lose out because  EDL
did something wrong. Where I find that a business  has done something  wrong,  Id normally
expect that business - in so far as is reasonably practicable - to put the consumer back in
the position they would be in now if that wrong  hadnt taken place.
Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable for EDL to do now, in the circumstances
of this complaint.  I think its fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay  the capital sum he
borrowed from EDL as hes had the benefit of that lending.  But I dont think  he should be
charged interest, fees or any other charges in relation to that loan. So to put things right,
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the loan taken in May 2017  for £10,000 
and treat all the payments Mr A has made  as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr As loan account results  in his having effectively made payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then EDL should  refund these  overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then EDL should 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr A, bearing in mind its obligation to treat 
him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr As credit  file in relation to the loan, 
once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Everyday Lending Limited  
trading as Everyday  Loans to put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN19643564Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1964356