K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about issues hes experienced with a caravan purchased  with finance from 
Black Horse  Limited.
background
In May 2017  Mr B was supplied with a caravan and entered  into a finance  agreement with 
Black Horse.
Mr B is unhappy about a number of issues, including:
Caravan described  to him as new when  it was a display model
No pre delivery inspection (PDI)  was completed
Only one key provided
Carbon monoxide,  smoke alarms  and fire extinguishers not fitted
Gas and electrical certificates  not provided
Front door not aligned
Kitchen sink leaking
Mr B is also unhappy about  issues hes experienced with the site itself. These include:
No instructions on how to drain  the caravan down
Threatened with eviction for failing to set up standing order  for site fees
Overcharges for site fees
Charged for additional items  in finance agreement which he was told were  included
Requested to move site but request cancelled with no explanation provided
Mr B complained to Black Horse in December  2018 and asked it to investigate  these  issues  
as hed been unable tor resolve them with the caravan park himself. He asked to reject the 
caravan.
In its final response Black  Horse upheld  limited aspects of the complaint  but said the 
compensation already paid to Mr B by the supplying dealer was fair and that the minor 
nature of the issues didnt warrant rejection of the caravan.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained to Mr B that this service  wasnt 
able to comment on some of the issues complained  about, such  as the value of the caravan, 
the overcharging of site fees and the request to move site, because these issues  werent  
covered by the finance agreement. In relation to the other issues, the investigator didnt think 
that these rendered the caravan of unsatisfactory quality.  Nor did she feel that there had 
been a misrepresentation.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15032202Mr B has made detailed submissions to this service. I dont intend to respond in the same  
level of detail but Id like to assure Mr B that Ive taken everything hes said and every piece 
of information  hes provided into account when making my decision. If I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent  seen it or thought  about  it, but 
rather that I dont feel I need to refer to it in order to explain my decision. I hope  that Mr B 
doesnt take this as a discourtesy. Its a reflection of the informal nature of this service.
Mr B acquired the caravan under a hire purchase agreement.  The agreement is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement and as a result  this service is able to look into complaints about 
it. But its important to say that this service isnt able to look into some  of the issues which Mr 
B has raised. These  include his complaints about the caravan park itself, including  the 
overcharging of site fees and the problems hes encountered moving  site. Ive looked into all 
of the issues which  Im able to do and Ive considered these  in the context  of either 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
Mr B has said that the agreement was mis-sold because  he was told that the caravan 
supplied to him was new but he subsequently  discovered it wasnt.
In order for me to say theres  been a misrepresentation, Id need to be satisfied that the 
supplier of the caravan made  a false statement of fact and that Mr B was induced  to enter 
into the agreement  as a result.
Theres no written  evidence  of what was discussed  between Mr B and the supplier. Because  
I wasnt present myself,  I cant  be certain  of what (if any) representations  were made about 
the age of the caravan.  In circumstances such as this, I need  to look at the 
contemporaneous documentation as the best evidence of what was discussed and agreed 
between the parties.  
Ive looked at the Hire Purchase Agreement, the Home Purchase  Agreement  and the 
Holiday Pitch Licence Agreement. Under the description of goods on the Hire Purchase  
Agreement the caravan  is described  as new.  However, on the other documents,  the 
caravan is described  as display.
I appreciate that the documents are contradictory. However, because Mr B had the 
opportunity to read all of the documents before he signed the agreement, Im unable  to say 
that theres been  a misrepresentation, because some of the documents  say that the caravan 
is a display model.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im unable to say that Mr B should be able to reject the caravan on 
the grounds that theres been  a misrepresentation.
Satisfactory quality
Because Black Horse has supplied the caravan under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. A caravan is of satisfactory quality if it is of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as the age of the caravan, the price paid, fitness  for purpose,  freedom 
from minor  defects, safety and durability. In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN15032203Where a fault is found within  the first 6 months, its presumed to have existed at the point of 
supply unless the supplier can show otherwise. After 6 months its up to the consumer  to 
prove that the fault was present at the point of supply.
An independent inspection can help with deciding whether theres a fault which  renders 
something of unsatisfactory quality. In this case,  an inspection was carried  out to comment 
on the reported faults and the condition of the caravan.  For the purposes of this decision Ive 
summarised the findings of the inspector but Id like to assure  Mr B that Ive taken into 
account everything the inspection report said.
Ive had regard  to the comments made in the inspection report  in relation to the issues  raised  
by Mr B about the PDI  the smoke alarm,  the carbon monoxide alarm,  the fire extinguisher, 
the kitchen sink and the front door.  The inspector found no faults with the alarms or 
extinguisher and noted that they were all fitted  to industry standard.  The inspector  also said 
that the sink and front door had been successfully repaired.
In relation to the gas and electricity certificates the inspector found that there  were  no faults 
and said the certificates  were issued in accordance with industry standards.
The inspector also said that the re-sale value of the caravan wouldnt be affected  by the 
absence of PDI documents. Based on the inspectors comments, I dont  think the fact that 
the PDI hasnt been provided  to Mr B amounts to a fault. Nor is there anything in the 
inspection report which suggests  that the caravan  is of unsatisfactory quality.
I appreciate that Mr B doesnt  agree with the inspectors findings and arranged his own 
inspection. Im unable  to treat this second inspection as wholly  independent but Ive had 
regard to it nonetheless.
The second  inspector found no faults  with the alarms or extinguisher  and said the door and 
sink had been successfully repaired.  He identified some issues  with the gas and electric 
installation certificates. He said the PDI hadnt been  completed and that therefore  the gas 
and electric installations  hadnt been properly tested. He concluded that the untested  nature 
of the gas and electric  installations  would  have affected the use of the caravan and would 
potentially affect  the re-sale  vale.
The second  inspector also commented  on Mr Bs concerns regarding  the gas hoses being 
unfit for purposes  due to the date of manufacture. He said the hoses should be changed 
every 5 years irrespective of the date of first use and concluded that the hoses in Mr Bs 
caravan werent  fit for purpose because one had no date markings and the other was nine 
years old.
Ive carefully considered  the contents  of both inspection reports. Theres  nothing in either 
report to suggest  that there are faults  with the alarms or extinguisher, or that there  are faults  
with the sink or the door.  
Theres a difference  of opinion between the reports in relation to the gas and electricity 
installations. On balance,  Im not persuaded that there are faults with the installations  which  
render the caravan of unsatisfactory quality. Theres no evidence  that the installations  
havent operated  as expected or that Mr Bs use of the caravan has been impacted. Further, 
the second inspectors conclusions are based on the assumption  that the PDI wasnt 
completed. Whilst I accept that no PDI documentation has been provided to Mr B, I cant  
automatically conclude  that this means  that no PDI was carried out. The supplier has stated 
Ref: DRN15032204that a PDI was carried out prior to handover and that this is standard practice. In any event, 
even if a PDI wasnt carried out, Im persuaded that any future purchaser of the caravan 
would carry out their own PDI checks,  so I dont  think the re-sale  value of the caravan has 
been affected by the lack of a PDI document.
In relation to the hoses, this didnt  form part of Mr Bs original complaint to this service. But 
Ive taken into account the second inspectors comments. Ive also taken into account what  
the manufacturer has said to this service, which is that the serial  number on the hoses in Mr 
Bs caravan indicates that the year of manufacture  was 2017. Im persuaded by the 
manufacturers evidence  about this so I cant say that the hoses are unfit for purpose or that 
they should have been replaced. They are still within their lifespan.
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  Im not persuaded that there are faults with 
the caravan which  render  it unfit for purpose  or of unsatisfactory  quality. I accept that Mr B 
has experienced some issues  but I think that the business has responded in a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve these.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020. 
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1503220