K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  a mortgage endowment policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out an endowment policy in April 1980. They  found  details of their policy 
after recovering some  old paperwork and subsequently complained  to Santander  that it was 
mis-sold to them, as they recall being told they had to take it in order  to obtain  their 
mortgage. 
Santander attempted to find details of the policy, the way it was sold,  and whom  it was sold 
by. But they couldnt find any related records. They also asked  the assurance society that 
issued the policy to search their files, but still no records  were found. 
Despite not knowing  who sold the policy, Santander accepted  responsibility  and upheld 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint as they were unable to confirm  if it was suitable for their needs at 
the time.  But Santander said they required the date the policy  was surrendered   as well as 
the surrender  value   in order to fairly calculate any loss. However,  Mr and Mrs T were  not 
able to provide  these  details, so Santander  said they could  not compensate them.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint as she felt Santanders approach was fair, given they were 
unable to establish whether there  had actually been any loss. Mr and Mrs T disagreed.  They 
said they thought the policy was for payment  protection insurance rather than an endowment 
policy, as they had a repayment mortgage.  Mr and Mrs T also said they surrendered the 
policy when they sold their house  in 1991. As no agreement could be met, the complaint has 
been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T dispute  the nature  of the policy,  as they do not think it is an 
endowment policy because they had a repayment mortgage. It does not appear,  however, 
that the policy is any form of payment protection insurance. But regardless of whether it was 
a mortgage endowment policy or a convertible  term assurance policy  for example,  Im not 
considering whether the particular type of policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ts needs or 
was mis-sold, as Santander  have already upheld this element  of their complaint. Instead,  
what Im considering is whether a fair calculation can be carried out to determine how to put 
things right.
Santander said they needed more  details regarding the policys surrender value in order  to 
calculate whether  any actual  loss had been  suffered.  Mr and Mrs T have not been able to 
provide any further  documentation or evidence towards this end, but say they received no 
money when they surrendered the policy in September 1991. 
Having considered the limited information that is available, I can see in the terms and 
conditions that the policy would have  had a surrender value  after the payment of at least two 
full years premiums. And given that the policy was surrendered around 11 years  after it was 
Ref: DRN11608182taken out, I consider it more likely than not that any surrender value wouldve been claimed 
by Mr and Mrs T rather than being forfeited. I appreciate that they do not recall  receiving any 
surrender value for the policy. But I have to consider  the real potential  that they may not 
remember whether any amount was paid or not, which wouldnt be surprising given that it 
was around 30 years  ago. 
As theres  no evidence  available to shed any further  light on the surrender of the policy,  it 
isnt possible to determine what loss, if any, Mr and Mrs T have  suffered  as a result  of being 
sold the policy. Therefore,  a fair calculation of what Santander ought  to pay in these 
circumstances isnt possible, so it follows that I cant fairly or reasonably ask them to do 
anything more in the absence of any further details.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1160818