K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the service that hes received from Barclays  Bank  UK PLC in 
connection with the requests that hes made  for information about  his accounts for filing with 
overseas tax authorities.
background
Mr C had a sterling and a foreign currency account  with Barclays. He needed information 
about the sterling account for filing with an overseas tax authority but it wasnt able to 
provide him with the information  in the format  that he needed it so he says that he incurred 
substantial expense in having monthly statements translated and legalised. And he says that 
he then needed  information about  the foreign currency account and was asked  to send a 
letter requesting that information  which he did but he didnt receive a response. He closed 
the account so that hed have to provide  less information about it and he says that hes now 
received a response from Barclays.
He says that hes been given incorrect and contradictory information by Barclays, that it 
hasnt done enough to help him and that this has had a severe impact on his earning power 
and his financial situation which has left him extremely exposed abroad. He says that hes 
been caused moral and emotional distress  and has incurred costs  totalling £4,516. He 
complained to Barclays but wasnt  satisfied  with its response so complained  to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He initially said 
that:
Barclays has said that it doesnt  produce the type of statements that Mr C wanted for 
his sterling account and it would take an unreasonable amount of resource to comply 
with his request;
it would  send him annual statements for his sterling account in future;
it had sent him the letter that he requested on his foreign currency  account;  and
he couldnt fairly say that Barclays had done anything wrong.
But he then said that Barclays  had provided incorrect information  about the delay in sending 
the letter on the foreign currency account  (it had said that Mr Cs request was sent to a 
closed branch but Mr C had provided  evidence to show that it was sent by courier  to the 
correct address). So due to its delay in responding to that letter he recommended  that 
Barclays should pay £200 compensation to Mr C.
Barclays has accepted  the investigators  recommendation  but Mr C has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in detail and says, in 
summary, that:
compensation of £200 isnt a true reflection of the losses that hes incurred as a 
result of the letter not being sent and he says that hell be sanctioned and fined and 
that his relationship with the overseas tax authority  has been severely jeopardised 
which will jeopardise his visa and work  permit  applications and will affect  his ability  to 
earn a living  which  could cause him tens of thousands of pounds  in lost earnings  and 
damages;
an alternative to the statements that he needed was only made available after hed 
been lied to three times and he wasn't given much  of an alternative and had to make 
the best of what  there was - Barclays  was fully aware of his predicament and made 
little effort to help him;
Ref: DRN10177512hes asked for recordings of his calls with Barclays  but theyve not been made 
available; and
he feels that hes been treated badly by Barclays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But we have no regulatory  
or disciplinary role over those businesses.
Its clear that Barclays hasnt been  able to provide Mr C with the information about his 
sterling account in the format that he requested  and that hes incurred substantial  translation 
and legalisation costs to provide the documents to an overseas tax authority. 
And Barclays accepts that the letter requesting information about his foreign currency 
account was received  and that it incorrectly said that it was sent to a closed branch. Its now 
provided Mr C with the information about  that account that hed requested and its accepted  
the investigators recommendation that it should pay him £200 compensation. 
Its provided some incorrect and inconsistent information to Mr C. That has clearly upset 
Mr C and I can understand the frustration that he feels because  hes not been able to get the 
information that he needed  in the format that he needed from Barclays   and that hes 
incurred substantial additional costs as a result.  And hes also had difficulties getting  a 
statement online. But Im not persuaded that Barclays has deliberately provided incorrect  or 
inconsistent information  to him. And other than the incorrect information about the letter on 
his foreign currency account, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that 
its acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings  with Mr C about these issues.
Mr C has asked for recordings  of his phone calls with Barclays  but Barclays  says that its 
searched for those  recordings  but been  unable to locate them. Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to draw any adverse  conclusions  from that.
As well as the substantial  costs that Mr C has claimed, hes also referred to the effect  that 
the failure to provide information in a timely manner might have on his visa and work  permit 
applications. Although I sympathise with Mr C for any such  difficulties that he experiences,  
Im not persuaded that Barclays is liable  for them. And I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Barclays to reimburse Mr C for the £50 cost of sending  the 
letter to Barclays by courier  or for the translation  and legalisation  costs  that hes incurred.
Barclays has agreed to pay the £200 compensation to Mr C that was recommended by the 
investigator for the delay in sending the letter about  the foreign currency account to him and 
for the incorrect information  that he was given.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to pay a higher  amount of compensation to Mr C  or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. And I order 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 compensation to Mr C.
Ref: DRN10177513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1017751