K820x#14complaint
Mr S, a director  of H, a limited company  (the company) complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
closed the companys account unnecessarily and without giving it adequate notice.
background
HSBC said it conducted a review of the company to comply with its legal and regulatory  
requirements. Its terms and conditions state that if a customer doesnt comply with its review 
it can ultimately close the account.  It asked for certain  information  through letters and the 
online banking facility  and it warned  that if it didnt get the information it required it would 
close the account. The company responded to one of those messages but HSBC  asked for 
more clarification. It didnt  get any further  response  so it closed the account. It said it didnt 
do anything wrong  because it followed its processes.
Mr S told us HSBC sent messages to the companys online banking  facility but he thought 
these were online surveys so he didnt look at the content. He said if HSBC had been  
intending to close  the companys account it shouldve done more  to let him know its 
intentions. It sent him a cheque for the balance in the account but hes had great difficulty 
cashing it so hes asked HSBC several times  for an electronic transfer but it refused to do 
that.
Our investigator could  see HSBC  originally contacted the company  in August 2018 asking 
for certain  information  and it followed up that initial contact with a number of letters  and 
online messages.  It gave Mr S notice  that the account was going to be closed. And it gave 
him notice  to make alternative banking arrangements. So he didnt think HSBC  had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr S said HSBC couldve managed this better. He thought it shouldve made a final phone 
call to him. And it shouldve helped  him by cancelling the cheque and arranging  an electronic 
transfer. He said it hadnt  acted fairly particularly as it then opened another  account  for the 
company. He also thought it might have discriminated against him due to his ethnic minority. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that HSBC sent letters by post and generated online messages asking for the 
information it required. The letters and messages were sent to the contact details HSBC had 
for the company. It sent these out on several  occasions. And it warned  that failure to comply  
could lead to it closing the account. Mr S says he didnt  get the letters and he says he 
thought the online messages werent important so he didnt read them.  Bu I cant  find HSBC 
to blame for that. So I think HSBC gave the company sufficient notice that without  the 
information it required it would close the account.  And as this was in line with its terms and 
conditions I cant fairly  find the bank  has done anything wrong. Mr S says HSBC  should have 
sent its letters by recorded delivery.  And he thought it shouldve  done more  to emphasis the 
importance of the online  messages. But Im satisfied  it gave him plenty of warning about the 
implications of not providing the information. So I dont  think  it needed to do more.
Ref: DRN12473672Mr S says the whole  exercise was pointless because  HSBC then opened another  account 
for the company. I know that he wont  agree  with me but I cant see the issue  of HSBC  
opening another account is relevant to this complaint.  The company didnt provide the 
information required and so HSBC closed the account as it was entitled to do. I cant  
comment on why it opened another account but as the investigator said it would only have 
done that if it now had all the information  it required to comply with its legal and regulatory  
obligations. If the company had provided  that information when HSBC asked it to do so, it 
wouldnt have closed  the account.
Mr S said he had great difficulty paying a cheque in and wanted  HSBC to facilitate an 
electronic transfer.  I note that on 29 November 2018  HSBC wrote to the company giving it 
two months notice of closure of the account  on 7 February 2019. And it said it would send a 
cheque for any outstanding  credit balances unless it received alternative written  instructions 
at least two weeks before the closure  of the account. Mr S didnt give those written 
instructions so I cant find HSBC did anything wrong  when it issued a cheque and wouldnt 
cancel it and make an electronic transfer.
I cant find any evidence that HSBCs  treatment  of Mr S was to do with his ethnic 
background. As Ive already said HSBC acted in line with its internal procedures and its 
terms and conditions. And there isnt any evidence for me to conclude that Mr Ss ethnicity 
was a factor in HSBCs  decision to close  the companys account.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I dont think 
HSBC has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
H, to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1247367