K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  (Tesco)  has refused to pay a claim he 
made on his home contents insurance policy after his personal belongings were  stolen from 
his car.
background
In December 2017, Mr P contacted Tesco and explained several items of personal  
belongings were  stolen  from his car the previous evening. He explained hed parked his car 
near a pub where he was meeting family.  When he got back  to his car, he discovered the 
seal of the passenger-side window had been  removed.  The sat nav and dash cam were 
stolen. He then noticed a bag in the boot containing  electronic items and clothes  was also 
missing.
Tesco appointed  loss adjusters who concluded  there was insufficient evidence of an insured 
peril having occurred. And so the claim was declined. Unhappy with this, Mr P referred the 
complaint to our service. He explained  he didnt  think the loss adjuster had done  a thorough 
investigation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She pointed  out that the policy  only provided 
cover for theft where both force and violence had been used. In Mr Ps case,  she didnt find 
any signs of violent entry.
But Mr P didnt agree and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I explain why. 
Mr Ps home insurance covers theft of personal  possessions outside his home. But there  are 
certain restrictions:
What is not covered
 Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor vehicle 
or where  a motor  vehicle is stolen, unless:
there is evidence that forcible and violent entry took place; and
the item is concealed in a locked glove or boot compartment; and
all access  points to the vehicle are closed and locked.
This isnt an unusual or significant term. It can be found in most, if not all, home insurance 
policies Ive seen.  And the term is there  to exclude situations such as a policy holder leaving 
their home or vehicle  unlocked  thereby increasing the risk of theft. 
Forcible and violent arent specifically defined within the policy. But these terms have  been  
considered in a court  of law, and relevant law is something that Im required to take into 
consideration.
Ref: DRN14499072What was meant by forcible and violent was considered by the Court  of Appeal in the case  
of Dino Services Ltd v Prudential Assurance Co Ltd [1989] 1 Lloyds  Rep. 379, which  the 
investigator alluded  to in her view. In that case there  was no dispute  about the meaning of 
forcible  this meant there was the application of energy to an obstacle with a view to its 
removal. So turning a handle would come  within the meaning of forcible. When  considering 
violent the court held the following:
I would take the ordinary meaning  of the word violent  in this context to be that it 
is intended to convey that the use of some force to effect  entry,  which may be 
minimal, such as the turning of a key in a lock or the turning of a door handle, is 
accentuated or accompanied by some  physical act which can properly be described 
as violent in its nature or character.   per Lord Justice Kerr 
Lord Justice Kerr gave  examples of violence,  such as breaking  down a door. He also cited  
an earlier Court of Appeal decision on the same issue   Calf v Sun Insurance  Office [1920] 2 
KB 366  and indicated his approval  of the following passages:
   
that by the words actual forcible  and violent entry it was intended to mean an 
entry effected by the exercise of force in a manner that was not customary  in order  to 
overcome the resistance  of the usual  fastenings  and protections in the premises.
If a person  turns a key he uses force but not violence. If he uses  a skeleton key, he 
uses force but not violence. If, on the other hand, instead of using a key he uses a 
picklock, or some  other instrument, or a piece  of wire, by which as a lever  he forces 
back the lock, it appears to me that he uses force and violence
Mr P has told us that the rubber seal on the passenger-side window had been removed. If 
this was the point of entry  which Ill come on to later  I would be satisfied this met the use 
of force.  But Im not persuaded it would constitute the use of violence as the act of removing 
the rubber seal did not open  the door itself; it wasnt part of the locking mechanism.  Further  
action would have  been needed  in order to gain entry  to a locked car.  
I understand Mr P doesnt think the loss adjuster carried out sufficient investigation into what  
happened. But I disagree. The loss adjuster  carried out extensive investigations into what  
happened, going so far as to buy a passenger door of the same  make and model as Mr Ps, 
in order to investigate  if the removal of the seal was a possible entry point (it wasnt  possible 
to inspect Mr Ps actual car as he exchanged it). Its conclusions were  that it wasnt possible 
to unlock the car via the gap left by the removed rubber seal. The report is very 
comprehensive and Mr P hasnt provided  a comparable report that disputes those findings. 
In the circumstances, I find that Tesco  is fairly entitled to rely on it. 
Mr P is unhappy the loss adjuster didnt  contact Thatcham or consider the video evidence  he 
provided. But thats not correct. I can see from the evidence provided that the loss adjuster 
did discuss the matter  with Thatcham. And it considered the video evidence  showing Mr P 
and the new owner  of his car locking  and unlocking it using various methods. But neither of 
those shed any further light on the matter  or evidenced that entry  was gained via the 
removed rubber seal. 
Mr P didnt report any other damage  to his car so it doesnt appear there were any other 
possible entry points that required  the thief to use force and violence. And as Im not 
persuaded Tesco was acting unfairly  in relying  on the report, Im satisfied there is insufficient 
evidence that the use of force and violence was used  to gain entry  to the car. Because  of 
Ref: DRN14499073that the exclusion within the policy, set out above,  applies  and so Mr P doesnt have cover 
for the stolen items. It follows that I find no basis on which to ask Tesco  to meet Mr Ps 
claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr P to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 15 June 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1449907