K822xcomplaint
Mr C says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  and nine instalment loans Uncle Buck  provided to 
Mr C between May 2014 and August 2017.  Mr C first borrowed four payday loans of 
between £100  and £225, excluding interest and charges. He rolled over the first three loans  
twice and loan four once before repaying them. Mr C then took out instalment  loans  for 
amounts ranging  between  £100 and £600 over the next two years  with no significant breaks  
in his borrowing. Mr C didnt make  any repayments  for loan 13, and the debt was sold on.  
Uncle Buck  offered redress  for loan four, but Mr C was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed. It offered redress  for loans 4, 6, 8 and 9. 
Mr C was unhappy with this and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN10194562I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr C for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr C said he earned between £1,700 and £1,750 a month over his borrowing. 
He said his expenses  left him with enough  disposable income to repay his loans. Uncle Buck  
said it called  Mr C to check that his loans were not to repay other short  term borrowing.  
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time and his history with Uncle Buck, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr C provided or the information 
Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr C was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Uncle  Buck to provide loans 
one to three. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
From  loan four onwards Mr C was provided  with a new loan within  weeks of settling a 
previous one. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr C was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Uncle Buck.  Mr C had been 
borrowing for nine months when  he took out loan four. Loan 13 was taken out three 
years after Mr Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr C had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
Ref: DRN10194563these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Cs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to thirteen and Uncle Buck  should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
1.refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4 to 13;
2.this refund should be offset against the principal Mr C owes for loan 13 and the 
remainder paid to him;
3.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
4.the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 to 13 should be removed from Mr Cs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. I require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019456