K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (Provident) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three home  collected credit loans that Provident provided  to Mr S 
between September  2007  and November 2008. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr S complaint about  loans two and three  and said that Mr S 
shouldnt have been provided with those loans. 
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators  view. But Provident didnt agree with it in full. So 
the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including  all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
It appears as though  Mr S was in arrears  on loan one when he was provided with loan two. 
And it seems to me that Provident ought to have been on notice that Mr S may have already 
been struggling to manage his existing commitments. I cant  see how it was fair and 
reasonable for Provident to provide further  loans in these circumstances. Provident accepts 
that Mr S may well have  been having  payment difficulties at the time of loan two. But it says 
Ref: DRN17288782that these were temporary and that this doesnt mean that loan three also shouldnt  have 
been provided.
Ive carefully thought  about what Provident  has said.  But I think that it is overlooking  the fact 
that its agent would have  been aware that Mr S wife was also in arrears on loans too, as he 
had provided those loans and was collecting on them. So, in my view, Providents  agent will 
have been aware  the household  was struggling.  And, in these circumstances, I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for the agent to conclude that Mr S would be able to make the payments to 
loan three.  As this is the case, Im upholding Mr S complaint about  loans  two and three.      
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
the debt Provident sold on for loans two and three included interest and charges that 
Mr S shouldnt  have to pay. So Provident should  either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. Either way Provident  
needs to ensure that Mr S paid, or pays, no more in total than the amount he was 
lent. If Mr S has paid more than what he was lent, Provident needs to refund these 
extra overpayments that Mr S paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments  from the date they were paid 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
if an outstanding  balance remains on either  loan after all adjustments  have been 
made, Provident can deduct  this from the compensation that it now needs to pay    
Mr S.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident  to take off tax from this interest. Provident 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1728878