K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the level of service he received from Bank of Scotland  Plc (Halifax) 
during a telephone conversation on 4 March 2019.  Hes said they are wrong to say in their letter  
of 11 March 2019 that he was being  abusive  in the call when they have  no evidence of this. 
Mr W also complains  that he made this call to Halifax because he was receiving so many
arrears calls - the level of which he says is harassment.
background
In 2011, Mr W took out an interest-only mortgage  with Halifax over a term of eight years. 
Unfortunately, Mr W couldnt make his full mortgage  payments from August 2017 as he 
found himself unable to work. Some payments were made after this from Mr Ws benefits,  
but these didnt make up the full contractual monthly  amount and these  stopped in 
July 2018, so the arrears on his mortgage continued to accrue. Mr W has raised several  
complaints about  the way Halifax has treated him.
In June 2019, this service  issued a decision which set out which parts  of Mr Ws 
complaint we could  consider, and which parts have been brought outside the relevant 
timeframes. In this, the ombudsman said we can only consider points raised from 15 July 
2018 onwards,  and that any complaints addressed in final response letters from Halifax  
before this are out of this services jurisdiction.
Mr W has also raised other complaints  with this service - which  have been dealt with 
separately from this complaint. Here, Ill be specifically looking at Mr Ws concerns about the 
call on 4 March 2019 and the level of arrears calls hes complained about around this time.
Mr W made this call to Halifax  on 4 March 2019 as he was receiving a lot of calls about  
the arrears on his account and felt this was harassment. He asked to be put through to the
complaints department and the agent  asked for his number in case  the call cut off. Mr W 
wouldnt provide  a contact number as he said hed asked not to be called anymore. The call 
became unproductive and ended in around one minute.
Mr W made a complaint and Halifax upheld  this  apologising in their letter  of 11 March 
2019 for the way their staff member handled  the call. Halifax said the staff member could 
have dealt with Mr W in a more empathetic way and that the service provided fell short  of 
the standards it would  expect.
Halifax said it provided feedback to the individual concerned and apologised for not 
removing Mr Ws number from their systems as requested. It confirmed this had now been 
done and offered £200 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigation looked into the matter and 
listened to the call. She concluded that it was a difficult call from both sides and thought  
that Halifaxs offer of £200 was reasonable.
Mr W disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
Ref: DRN18681922my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 25 February  2020. In it I explained that I wasnt  minded 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same outcome as the investigator,  for 
largely the same reasons.  I realise  that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W 
but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
Ive considered what the previous ombudsman  said about  the issues  we could and 
couldnt consider.  I agree,  and so in this decision I will focus only on those parts  of 
Mr Ws complaint  that were made in time. And I note that another ombudsman  has 
already considered Mr Ws complaint about  other issues  to do with his mortgage  so I 
wont be re-visiting those issues either.
telephone call on 4 March 2019
I understand that Mr W has been  going through a hard time and that he finds speaking  
with Halifax difficult.  Ive listened  to the call which lasted less than a minute  and am 
aware that it didnt start well as Mr W didnt  want to provide the information he was being 
asked for. But I do agree  that the call could  have been managed  better by Halifax.
Whilst I appreciate that it can be frustrating  to call businesses, and difficult to speak to 
different people in different departments,  sometimes this happens in dealing with 
large banks  such as Halifax. Mr W has been communicating with Halifax because  his 
account has unfortunately been in arrears.  Whilst I understand  this is difficult, I do 
consider it reasonable that they communicate to try to get the account back on track.
Mr W is unhappy and feels that Halifax has defamed him as they called him 
aggressive. Ive read the letter and I think that Halifax is making a statement to say 
that their staff are not expected to deal with any customer who is exhibiting  abusive, 
threatening or offensive behaviours- which I consider  is a reasonable policy.  I dont 
think the intention  of this letter was to say to say that Mr W is himself being abusive;  
rather it was a statement  intended to set boundaries.
Halifaxs letter then goes  on to acknowledge that Mr W was upset and says that it 
feels their colleague  could have been  more empathetic.  Halifax  offers Mr W £200 in 
recognition of this, which is paid into his bank account. So, I dont think Halifax 
intended to say that Mr W himself was aggressive,  but it does acknowledge that 
Mr W was upset and shouting on the call. Having listened to the call, I think this is a 
fair assessment of what  happened.
I consider that the apology from Halifax, as well as the £200 offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be recommending Halifax  do anything  
further here.
Ref: DRN18681923arrears calls
Mr W says hes received  an unreasonable amount  of calls from Halifax  about  the 
arrears on his mortgage and that this was why he was calling on 4 March 2019.  Mr W 
has made previous  complaints about  the level of calls hes received, and these have 
been addressed  by Halifax in some of the final response letters its sent him.
Hes also said that a lot of these calls have come from overseas and hes found it 
hard to understand the agents calling him due to what he considers to be a 
language barrier. I can see that Halifax  specifically  addressed this issue in a final 
response letter dated before 15 July 2018  - so I wont be considering this part of the 
complaint further  as it falls outside this services jurisdiction.
Since 2017, Mr W has received a number of calls from Halifax  as his account has 
been in arrears. Its clear  that Mr W found  these calls distressing and they often 
ended with him raising concerns about the service  he had been provided. Whilst Im 
sorry to hear that this has been stressful for Mr W, his mortgage  was in arrears  at the 
time and Halifax is expected to keep in contact  and try to work with him to get things 
back on track.
I appreciate that Mr W has said that the amount of calls he received made him feel 
harassed but having considered the contact notes, I dont think there  was an 
unreasonable number. I say this as many of the calls appear to have been 
unanswered or voicemail messages were left. Halifax is expected to keep in regular 
contact when payments  are missed so I can understand  why it called regularly if calls 
were not being  answered or returned.
When Mr W does  get in touch with Halifax, for example in October 2018 when he 
makes a lump sum payment to clear the arrears, Halifax doesnt make the same 
calls. Unfortunately, after this the arrears build again as hes unable to pay the 
contractual monthly payment.  I can then see that Halifax calls around two or three 
times a day at some points in the days after the payments are missed. But Mr W 
doesnt answer most of these calls and so I dont  think it unreasonable  for Halifax  to 
try again,  and in subsequent days, to make contact.
Unfortunately, when Mr W and Halifax do speak the calls usually end up becoming 
unproductive and terminated. I would encourage both parties to try to agree on an 
effective way to communicate. Mr W should  be aware that if hes still unable to pay his 
mortgage, it may be harder for Halifax to contact him and see what assistance can be 
provided  if any  to get things back on track if hes not willing  to speak on the phone.
conclusions
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but having  taken all the 
circumstances into account,  Im not minded  to uphold this complaint.  I think the £200 
offered for the service  provided in the phone call of 4 March 2019  is fair in all the 
circumstances. And I dont consider that the level or frequency of the calls Mr W 
received are unreasonable.
Ref: DRN18681924I would encourage  both parties to communicate effectively and work together  to make 
a plan for the payment  of the mortgage.  If Mr W continues to struggle to make his 
payments or finds himself in a position where he is unable to repay his mortgage at the 
end of the term, I would  expect Halifax  to show reasonable forbearance.
responses to my provisional  decision
Halifax responded to my provisional decision to say that it had nothing  further  to add.
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional  decision. He said that he was keeping  the end of term 
team up to date but that he continued to receive these arrears calls from overseas.  He said 
he felt harassed by the calls and they made him feel anxious  and stressed.  
Hes said that he kept the end of term team well informed and that he had a property for sale 
which would pay off the mortgage  and pay off the arrears, but that this took longer to sell 
because of the current market. I understand that this has since been  sold, and that Mr W has 
paid off his mortgage and the arrears but he still feels  very aggrieved  that he was  as he 
believes - harassed by Halifax.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  my provisional decision  in light of these comments. Having done so, Im 
not changing my opinion  that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I understand that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr W but I will explain why. 
I should make it clear that Ive only considered the contact that Mr W had with Halifax  up 
until the point  that he made this complaint on 4 March 2019 so whilst  Im aware that there 
has been further contact between Mr W and Halifax since this time,  I havent  considered  it 
here. As I confirmed in my provisional decision,  Ive looked at Mr Ws concerns about the call 
on 4 March 2019, and the level of arrears calls hes complained about around that time.
Im sorry  to hear of the impact these  calls have  had on Mr W and Ive reconsidered the level 
and frequency  of the calls in light of his comments. Having done so, I still dont find that they 
were excessive. I say this as, whilst Ive noted his comments that he kept the end of term 
team up to date  and I agree he did do this at times - I also think  that there  were  periods 
where Halifax tried to contact Mr W but couldnt. This is especially around  the time he 
missed payments but didnt answer calls,  or the calls became unproductive. So as Halifax  
wasnt able to get an update on the plan to repay  the mortgage or pay down  the arrears,  it 
kept contacting Mr W to get this information.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Halifax is expected to keep in contact and try to 
work with Mr W to get things back on track. I understand that he was waiting  for a property 
sale to repay  his mortgage and arrears and that this took time to sell. But as payments were 
missed over this period  and Halifax couldnt contact  him to get a meaningful update, these  
calls continued.
Whilst Im sorry to hear that Mr W felt stressed and anxious because of the level of calls he 
received over this time, having considered  everything,  I dont find the level or frequency  of 
these calls to be unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN18681925my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868192