K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited has accused  Mr H 
of making inappropriate comments over the phone  and will no longer accept calls from 
him. 
background
Mr and Mrs H hold a mortgage  with Kensington. In March 2019, Kensington wrote to 
Mr H saying hed made inappropriate comments to its staff. It was no longer willing to 
speak to him on the phone. But it would still communicate with him in writing and accept 
calls from Mrs H. 
Mr H disagrees  that he made  inappropriate comments. He complained  to Kensington. It 
didnt uphold  the complaint and reiterated  that it wouldnt speak to him on the phone.
At Mr and Mrs Hs request, an investigator here reviewed the complaint.  He didnt think 
Kensington had done  anything wrong, as it wasnt required to communicate with Mr H 
over the phone. He also found that Mr H had been  questioning Kensingtons staff about 
their decision  to work for the company  which he thought could be deemed  
inappropriate. 
Mr H didnt accept this view. He maintains that he didnt make any inappropriate 
comments. And he doesnt think Kensington has been able to substantiate  its allegation. 
So his case  has been escalated to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Kensington has commercial discretion over how it communicates with its customers. So 
long as its communication arrangements  arent discriminatory or otherwise unlawful, our 
service generally wouldnt  interfere with them.
In this instance, Kensington says it stopped phone communication with Mr H as it 
considered his behaviour during calls to be inappropriate. I consider this decision to fall 
within Kensingtons legitimate commercial discretion. And as it will still speak to Mrs H 
over the phone and correspond  with Mr H in writing, I dont consider them to be unfairly 
disadvantaged by the communication arrangements.
Mr H is offended that Kensington has characterised his comments  as being  
inappropriate. But having listened  to a sample  of his calls from February  and March  
2019, I consider  this description to be fair. In my judgment, Mr Hs conduct was 
inappropriate. He repeatedly asked staff why they worked for Kensington. And he made  
it clear that he was asking  them to respond in a personal capacity  telling one of the 
call-handlers to think  about what youre  doing on a personal level. He told staff hed be 
ashamed to work for a company like Kensington, and said that people who do are 
self-centred, greedy,  antisocial, victimising, exploiting extortionists. During these 
Ref: DRN17939842calls, Kensingtons  staff repeatedly said they wouldnt  answer  Mr Hs questions. Yet he 
continued to call in and pursue this intrusive,  personal line of questioning. 
Kensingtons legitimate commercial discretion around its communication  arrangements  
is there to ensure  it can operate effectively and protect the welfare of its staff.  I believe 
its good industry practice for employers have  such policies in place because  of their 
legal duty of care towards employees.  Im not aware  of any law or regulatory 
requirements that force firms to communicate orally  with customers  (where theres  no 
obligation to make reasonable adjustments for disabilities under the Equality Act 2010). 
Mr H hasnt directed me to any rules or regulations  that prove  otherwise. Its clear  to me 
that the calls were difficult for Kensingtons staff  and for Mr H himself. And they dont 
appear to have yielded helpful results  for either party. So its hard to criticise the 
decision.
Overall, Im satisfied that Kensington  hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.  So Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1793984