K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint against Zurich Assurance  Ltd is about his personal pension  plan. He says 
he wasnt aware his monthly contributions were paying for life cover rather than being  
invested to build up a pension fund.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 November 2020. The background 
and circumstances  to the complaint and the reasons I wasnt  provisionally minded  to uphold 
it were set out in that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this decision.  
I invited Mr C and Zurich  to provide any further  evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional findings.  He said, in summary:
In my provisional decision Id accepted that Zurich  could  have provided  clearer  
information, and the information it did provide  was inconsistent.
When he called Zurich  in July 2006  and discussed reinstating  the plan at £50 per 
month he was told there  would  be no reinstatement  fees, he would lose none of the 
existing funds, and the insurance  was dependent on the doctors  report. Hed asked 
what the cover would be if the insurance was possible; he never asked for an 
insurance quote only. Before he returned  the forms he received a letter headed 
Personal Pension Plan saying if he paid £50 he would get cover of £126,770. 
Although the employee had headed his enquiry as Life Cover  Illustration Only, the 
illustration he received wasnt headed as such. This was the most important piece of 
information.
When he returned the forms his hand-written letter  instructed Zurich  to reinstate both 
the pension and the life insurance.  Using the word and before life insurance  meant  
there was something else to be considered;  in this case the pension.
Zurich had said the 4 July 2006  telephone conversation wasnt  available. So neither 
he nor Zurich could prove  the contents of the conversation. However his letter  
provided concrete  evidence as to his instructions. These instructions were completely 
different to Zurichs previous understanding that he was interested  in insurance. At 
this point it was imperative for Zurich to have contacted him to check  his intentions.
Zurich reinstated  the plan on the illustration they sent out on 10 July 2006. He had 
never agreed to or accepted it and he thought the plan shouldnt have been put into 
place until there  was an agreement.
The information that Zurich provided was inconsistent.  However it should all have 
been correct and not misleading. The illustration referring to the £47.84  contribution 
made no mention  of insurance. And the £47.84 was 70% of the £64.10 gross 
contribution. This was consistent with the investment/insurance contribution  split 
when the pension was first started. 
When the policy was originally sold to him in 1990 the adviser said the firm treated its 
clients as individuals,  and it would give them their full attention and best advice at all 
Ref: DRN16518512times. After 18 months of waiting and stress he felt like he was being treated like just 
a number.  
His complaint was never about  the amount of cover he would receive on the 
insurance part of the plan; it was that the pension was reinstated  without the pension  
included.
Zurich said it had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the stress caused to Mr C by the matter  and I apologise for the time it has taken 
to get to this stage. Clearly Mr C will know what his intentions were  at the time. And I agree 
with Mr C that Zurich should  have provided  consistent information throughout. But in 
deciding the complaint Im bound to take all the information that Mr C was given into account 
and consider it in the context of the circumstances of the case. And having  done so, for the 
reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, I think Zurich did provide sufficient information 
to Mr C to have reasonably alerted him to the cost of the life cover.
Mr C instructed Zurich to reinstate the plan following receipt of the 10 July 2006 letter. The 
first few lines of that letter referred to the cost of the life cover being  £51.35  gross  a month 
As I said in my provisional decision,  some  of the information included  with the illustration  that 
was enclosed with that letter and subsequently  provided wasnt consistent  with this. And I 
understand Mr Cs point that it appeared the proportion payable  for life cover/pension was 
about the same as when he first started  the plan.  
However the information about the cost of the life cover was at the start of the letter.  And I 
think the contemporaneous record of Mr Cs conversation with the firm on 4 July 2006 shows 
he was interested  in how much life cover he would  get for a £50 premium  so it was on his 
mind. It wasnt a case where he wasnt interested in life cover and it was merely incidental  to 
the pension. I think the information  ought to have  alerted Mr C to the cost of the life cover.  
So although  there may have been  other inconsistent information  provided I think he ought 
reasonably to have  raised a query with Zurich if this wasnt  what he required.
I accept that Mr C instructed Zurich  to reinstate both the pension and the life insurance. 
However they were  in effect mutually  dependent  the life assurance was linked as part of 
the pension. And any amount over and above the cost of the life cover  and other  charges 
would have been paid into the pension  albeit only small  amounts. Zurich  proceeded to 
reinstate the plan following Mr Cs instructions which referred to the figures in the 10 July 
2006 letter.  I dont  think the way Zurich  reinstated the plan was inconsistent  with his 
instructions or, as I said,  that his request  was so unusual it should  have checked his 
intentions.
Mr C has referred  back to the content  of the telephone conversation he had with Zurich  on 4 
July 2006. Unfortunately  a recording of the call isnt available and whilst I understand thats  
frustrating as Ive said,  its not surprising, and its not unusual  given the timeframe. Mr C has 
said neither he nor Zurich  could prove  the contents  of the conversation. I agree that is the 
case. But in circumstances where  the evidence is unclear, incomplete  or contradictory I am 
bound to consider  the matter on the balance of probabilities i.e what  was more likely on the 
Ref: DRN16518513balance of the evidence that is available. If there  was some doubt  about whether the 
insurance was possible  I think that would again suggest it was something that would be at 
the forefront of Mr Cs mind and the life cover element  was material to Mr C. This is 
consistent with contemporaneous documentation  and the conclusions  in my provisional 
decision.
As I said in that decision, I understand Mr C is very disappointed with my findings.  However  
taking all the above into account and for the reasons outlined in my provisional  decision, Im 
not persuaded that his complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16518514Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr Cs complaint against Zurich Assurance  Ltd is about his personal pension plan.  He says he wasnt 
aware his monthly contributions were paying for life cover rather  than being  invested to build up a 
pension fund.  
background
Mr C started his pension in August 1990 paying in £40 a month. Part of that contribution (£13.20) paid 
for life cover  starting  at £50,000.
Mr C maintained his monthly contributions until early 2006, when he called Zurich to stop making 
payments. He then contacted Zurich in June and July 2006 to discuss reinstating his plan. He asked 
how much  life cover would be provided  if he paid £50 per month.  Zurich said it would provide  
£126,770 life cover. Mr C wrote to Zurich saying that he wanted to reinstate his pension  plan with the 
£126,770 life cover.
When Mr C tried to transfer  his pension plan in October 2018  with the help of a financial  adviser,  he 
discovered that his contributions had been paying for life cover only since it was reinstated in 2006. 
Mr C complained to Zurich, but when  it didnt uphold  his complaint  he referred the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs concerns. He thought that the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that when Mr C wrote to Zurich  to re-instate the plan hed said he wanted to reinstate the 
above pension plan and linked life insurance.
The investigators  view was that Mr C was asking  Zurich to reinstate his previous pension plan and 
life cover. He thought  the letter clearly said Mr C wanted his pension plan (investment element) and 
linked life insurance;  it didnt imply he only wanted life cover. And as Mr Cs original pension plan had 
investment and life cover, he expected the same arrangement for his new monthly premium.
The investigator noted  that Zurich did send out a policy  schedule showing the new life cover. However 
he said the letters were  headed Personal Pension Plan. The policy schedule also included some 
information about the current pension  fund selection. The investigator thought this was confusing for 
Mr C as it suggested that he had his original pension  back. And he thought  Zurich had misunderstood 
Mr Cs request to reinstate his pension  plan. 
Zurich didnt  agree with the investigators findings. It said,  in summary, that when Mr C enquired about 
how much  life cover his plan would  provide for a monthly contribution  of £50 he made  no reference to 
any consideration  for additional pension provision.  He was provided with confirmation  that £50 would  
support cover of £126,770 on 10 July 2006. This letter included a breakdown of what  the contribution 
provided and there was no element for pension  provision.  
Zurich then received an unambiguous instruction from Mr C in his letter (received on 22 August 2006)  
to reinstate contributions  at £50 net per month and provide him with £126,770 life cover.  It said it 
followed this instruction.  And there was no indication that Mr C had sought any advice in connection 
with the matter. It thought Mr C was therefore responsible for the implications of restarting 
contributions with the level of life cover  provided.  It said it wasnt for Zurich  to double-guess or 
question what Mr Cs intentions  were.
Zurich said that when Mr C started  his plan in 1990  the life cover  was £50,000 for a £40.00 
contribution.  His policy schedule  confirmed  that of his monthly contribution £26.80 was allocated as 
the investment  contribution  to his Personal Pension Plan and £13.20 to the Personal  Life Plan.
Ref: DRN16518515When Mr C increased contributions with effect  from 1 May 2001 to £87.03 (gross) this provided him 
with cover of £84,647.  The Plan Summary he was sent on 12 April 2001 confirmed that of his 
monthly contribution,  £54.10 was providing the Investment Contribution.
Therefore when Mr C reinstated his plan with effect from 1 September 2006 it would have been 
apparent that his monthly contribution of £64.10 gross (£50.00 net) was securing a significantly  larger 
level of life cover (£126,770) than he had previously obtained.  
Zurich said the investigator had accepted that Mr Cs intention was to make pension contributions 
without supporting evidence. It was equally reasonable to conclude that Mr Cs requirement  at the 
time was to provide the maximum amount of life cover available for a given level of contribution.
Mr C had also been  provided with projections  of his pension both before he suspended his plan and 
after contributions resumed. These showed no appreciable increase in the amount of pension  
predicted at his selected retirement age despite further contributions being  made. It said if Mr C had 
understood he was paying for pension  again these figures  ought  to have alerted  him he wasnt.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr C contacted Zurich  about reinstating his pension plan near the end of June 2006 and Zurich wrote 
back to him on 30 June  2006 saying:
Information you need  to send to us
To enable  us to reinstate your plan we need the information requested below;
 Confirmation of the amount you would  like to pay and from what  date. Please be aware that
the minimum payment to this type of plan is £36.00 gross  a month.
 Please complete the enclosed direct  debit  instruction  so we can collect future  payments  directly from 
your bank/building society account.
 Please complete the enclosed questionnaires if you would like to reinstate your life cover and/or 
Waiver of Payment Benefit.  If you are reinstating the life cover, please also confirm the level of cover 
you require.
My understanding is that Mr C then called Zurich  on 4 July 2006.  Hes said that during the call and 
when negotiating the amount over the phone he enquired as to how much life insurance cover he 
would receive if he contributed £50 into re-instating the plan. 
Theres no recording available  of the actual conversation that took place. However  there is a file note 
of it.  The note was headed  Life Cover illustration Only. A copy  of the note is re-produced  below (with 
the policy  number and caller  details deleted).
Subject:  9956  Life Cover  Illustration  Only  
Urgent:  No
9956  Life Cover  illustration  only 
Policy  Number:   
Complaint:  No
Deadline: Normal Turnaround 
Contact Type: Incoming  Call
Date I Time: Tue 04 Jul, 2006 15:08:11
Contact  Number:
Request:
Ref: DRN16518516please send clt an ill showing how much  life cover he could expect if he was paying £50 net per month
Send  FAO:
Send  Where:
Copy  to Adviser:  Yes 
Who/Where:
 Zurich then sent a letter to Mr C dated 10 July 2006 following the call. It said:
Thank you for your request.
We confirm that if you pay £50.00 net a month, this will provide you with life cover  of
£126770.00. Please  see below how the monthly payment is made  up:
Life Cover  of £ 126770 .00 £51.35  gross a month
Waiver  of Payment  Benefit       £2.77  gross a month  Full 
Return  of Fund  Benefit      £1 .20 gross a month  Indexed  
Policy  Charge             £6.14 gross  a month
Expense Deduction                   £2.64 gross a month
Total                                        £64.10  gross  (£50.00  net) a month
It said it enclosed  an illustration  assuming  this. The illustration  said:
CONTRIBUTIONS
Regular contributions are payable each month effective from 1 August 2006 to 1 July 2015 inclusive. 
(All previous contributions are included)
Initial Monthly Contributions  (Investment Indexed) £47.84
Additional Waiver  of Contribution Premium £2.16
Total Regular Monthly Contributions £50.00
(Equivalent Personal  Gross: £64.10)
Mr C wrote  to the firm saying  he enclosed  the relevant  forms  to reinstate  the above  pension  plan 
and linked  life assurance.  
I would  like to pay £50-00  per month  to be taken  from my account  on the 14th of each  month.  
As per your letter  to me dated  July 10th 2006  I would  like to confirm  the level  of life insurance  at 
£126,770-00.
Mr Cs letter  was received  by the firm on 22 August  2006.  A Plan Summary  was sent to Mr C on 26 
September 2006. This set out the following
CONTRIBUTIONS AND BENEFITS
Regular contributions payable monthly with effect  from 1 September 2006
Covering:
£50.00 (Net)
£64.10 (Gross)
lnvestment contribution (Indexed) £2.77
Personal Life Plan sum assured of £126,770 (Indexed)
Full Return of Fund Benefit
Indexed Policy Charge
Ref: DRN16518517As Ive said above, unfortunately a recording  of the call on 4 July 2006 isnt available. But I dont  think 
thats surprising given the call was made in 2006. I accept Mr C may have wanted to reinstate the 
pension with life cover. And that he may not have understood the amount that cover was going to 
cost. But the contemporaneous  note was headed Life Cover Illustration  Only.  And the request was 
sent to Mr C showing  how much life cover he could expect if he was paying £50 a month. 
I think  the nature  of the enquiry does suggest that the life cover element  was material to Mr C at that 
time. I accept there  may have been a misunderstanding.  But I think  the evidence shows the 
employees take from the call was that Mr C wanted a quote for how much life cover £50 would 
provide. And its not now possible to say whether that was through  a misunderstanding by the 
employee, or what was said by Mr C. 
However, I think Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware that the life cover element had a material 
cost to it given the information he had been provided with over time.  When he started the pension  the 
cost was £13.20 for life cover starting at £50,000. And when he increased contributions in May 2001 
to £87.03  (gross) this provided  him with cover of £84,647 with the amount for investment £54.10.
I think  the evidence suggests that Mr C was interested in life cover when he contacted the firm in 
2006. Following his request  the firm sent him a breakdown of what his contributions were paying for in 
the 10 July letter. In the context of his request,  I think this ought to have at least  alerted Mr C that the 
life cover may be costing £51.35 gross a month. 
But then the illustration that was sent said Initial Monthly Contributions (Investment Indexed)  £47.84. 
There was no mention  of life cover. So I think taking this in isolation,  Mr C would reasonably have  
understood the majority  of the pension  was going towards investment.
But I think the information needs to be considered in the round.  I think  the evidence suggests  that Mr 
C was interested  in what life cover he would  get through the pension.  And in that context, I tend to 
agree with Zurich that he ought reasonably to have  recognised that he appeared  to be getting  a 
higher amount of life cover than earlier  and seemingly at much lower cost.  In those circumstances I 
think it ought  to have given  Mr C pause  for thought.   
Mr C had asked about life cover when he contacted the firm. He received conflicting information about 
it in the firms 10 July 2006 letter. And then he was also sent a Plan Summary on 26 September 2006.  
This said lnvestment contribution  (Indexed) £2.77.  
At the time pensions  could provide a cost-effective  way of providing life cover.  So I dont Zurich 
should have thought Mr Cs request was odd, or that it should have queried it. 
I do think that Zurich could have provided clearer  information. The information  it did provide was 
inconsistent. But in the particular  circumstances  of this case, with Mr C taking an interest in the life 
cover and so it was on his mind at that time, I think Zurich did provide sufficient information  to Mr C to 
have reasonably caused  him to question the cost of the life cover if his aim was to increase pension 
provision. And having  done so, he would  have discovered the true cost and could have taken action 
to change that position  at the time.
I realise that Mr C will be very disappointed with my findings. But taking everything into account, Ive 
not been  persuaded  that his complaint should  succeed in the particular  circumstances.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, for the reasons  outlined above, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1651851