K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax at the time mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  policy (PPI) in 2001 alongside a secured personal 
loan.
 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan in 2001.  At the same time they took out a PPI policy  in Mr Ms 
name. This covered Mr M only (not Mrs M) if he was off work through  accident, sickness or if 
he lost his job.
Mr and Mrs M say they werent in a position to make a fully informed decision. Theyve also 
said the policy was of no foreseeable benefit  and didnt provide value for money as they had 
no concerns about  maintaining the loan repayments.  Theyve also told us they had no 
understanding of how taking the PPI or not would  have affected their application  for the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with 
this view and asked  that their matter  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why below.
It looks like Halifax  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the cover. That meant that it had to 
make sure that the PPI was suitable for their circumstances. It also had to give clear enough 
information so that Mr and Mrs M could  make an informed choice about whether or not they 
wanted to take out the insurance.
Halifax has provided a copy of the completed  loan agreement which  has been signed and 
dated. On it theres  a section about the PPI. The box choosing PPI has been  completed by 
placing a cross in the box. Theres also a no option  on the agreement. I think the paperwork 
was completed following  a discussion so if Mr and Mrs M didnt want the PPI, I think its 
more likely the box to show  they didnt want the cover would have been completed. The 
information on the form also shows the monthly cost of the policy and Mr and Mrs M have 
signed and dated the agreement. So its more  likely  they would have  realised at the time that 
they were opting  to take out the PPI knowing they could refuse it if they didnt want  it.
Ive looked Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and the policy terms and conditions to see 
whether the PPI was suitable for Mr M. I think it was suitable.
I can see Mr M the person  who was covered was eligible for the cover and I dont think its 
likely hed have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations set out in the 
terms and conditions which might  affected  Mr Ms ability  to make a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs M say he had no need  for the PPI. But this policy  would have paid out for up to 
60 months if he couldnt work through an accident  or if he was ill and for up to 12 months if 
Ref: DRN14719962he lost his job. It would have paid out in addition to any sick pay he got and the accident and 
sickness part of the policy would have paid out   longer than Mr Ms sick pay would have 
lasted. This loan was a secured loan - the consequences  of not being able to repay the 
monthly repayments were  serious. So I think the PPI was suitable and could have  been  
useful if things went wrong.
Theres nothing Ive seen  which  makes me think this policy was unaffordable.
Its possible not all the information given to Mr and Mrs M was as clear as it could  have 
been. Mr and Mrs M have said that they werent in a position to make a fully informed 
decision - they didnt clearly understand the terms and conditions  of the policy.  I think they 
chose the PPI at the time even if its understandable they cant  remember doing so now after 
so long. And for much the same reasons Ive found the policy  was suitable for them, I cant  
say they would have changed  their mind and not bought the PPI even if they had better and 
clearer information. I still the policy was useful to them if things went  wrong.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but for the reasons Ive explained I dont think 
Mr and Mrs M lost out financially as a result  of anything Halifax  did wrong and I dont  uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1471996