K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with Nationwide  Building  Societys decision to not refund 
transactions they didnt authorise  on their account.  They were made using Mrs Ps debit card
and totalled £34,923.71.
background 
I set out the detailed background of this complaint in my provisional decision  of 
21 January 2021  and so I dont intend  to repeat all of the detail here. Instead, a copy of my 
provisional decision is attached for reference.  
In summary,  Mrs P was out shopping  when her purse was stolen.  She had a copy of her PIN 
kept with her debit  card in the purse. A thief used these to make a number of transactions  
and withdrawals, including a chip and PIN payment of £25,947.52.
Mr and Mrs P raised a fraud claim with Nationwide but it was declined on the basis  Mrs P 
had been grossly negligent  with her card and PIN, in keeping them together.  
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service  as they didnt think Nationwides  
position was fair. They  couldnt  understand how so much money had been  removed from 
their account  without any transactions flagging up with the bank. 
I issued a provisional decision partially  upholding  the complaint. I agreed with Mr and Mrs P 
that the first transaction (the one for £25,947.52)  was so unusual  that Nationwide  ought to 
have stopped it and questioned it. And had it done  so Mr and Mrs Ps loss would have been  
altogether avoided. That meant it would be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to responsible  
for the loss.
But I also recognised  Nationwides argument  that Mrs P had clearly failed to keep her card 
and PIN safe and that it was this that led to the loss. 
With that in mind I said itd be fair and reasonable for the redress to be reduced by 50%.  I 
said Nationwide should pay interest  on that refund  at the applicable account rate from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement. And I also suggested Nationwide  pay Mr and Mrs P 
£250 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs P accepted my findings. Nationwide didnt respond  and so Im going on to issue 
my final decision without  further comment from it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding it in part.
I see no reason to depart from the findings  set out in my provisional decision. These have 
been accepted by Mr and Mrs P. And Nationwide  hasnt  presented  any new information that 
might lead me to a different  outcome.  
putting things right
Ref: DRN11835742Nationwide should  refund 50% of the loss suffered by Mr and Mrs P, that being  £17,461.86. 
Interest is to be paid on that sum at the applicable account rate.
Nationwide should  also pay Mr and Mrs P £250  in compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Nationwide Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2021.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy  with Nationwide Building  Societys decision to not refund transactions  
they didnt authorise on their account.  They were  made using  Mrs Ps debit card and totaled 
£34,923.71.
Ref: DRN11835743background
Mrs P was out shopping on 9 May 2019. She used her card for a genuine transaction  that 
morning before going to a supermarket. While  there she suddenly  realised  her purse was 
missing; it appeared  to have been stolen.
Mrs P contacted the bank to report the theft and was told by the bank thered  been a number of 
transactions carried out on the card. The card activity was as follows:
Time Transaction Amount
10:21 Genuine withdrawal £20
11:26 Balance enquiry  at a cash 
machine£0
11:29 Payment to a merchant 
(processed in Euros)£25,947.52
11:35 Cash machine  withdrawal £500
11:36 Attempted  cash  machine 
withdrawal (unsuccessful, 
maximum  daily limit reached)£250
11:38 Payment to the same  
merchant as at 11:29 
(processed in Euros)£8,476.19
12:03 Attempted payment  to a 
different merchant  (blocked  by 
Nationwide)£599
Mrs P confirmed the only transaction shed authorised was the £20 withdrawal.  Everything 
else was fraudulent.
Nationwide asked Mrs P some questions  about  what had happened. She told them that shed  
kept a record of her personal identification  number  (PIN) in her purse with her card.  She said 
shed done so as she hadnt had the account for very long (itd been opened in early April 
2019).
Nationwide, with that in mind, said it wouldnt be able to refund  the transactions. It said Mrs P 
had breached  the account  terms  and conditions  by keeping her card and PIN together.
Mr and Mrs P questioned how the bank could have allowed the payments to go through  given 
how unusual they were. Nationwide  said the transactions hadnt flagged as they had been 
chip and PIN authorised.
Mr and Mrs P brought the complaint  to our service  as they were unhappy with the answer given. 
They largely  accepted  that Mrs P was at fault for keeping her card and PIN together. But they 
couldnt accept Nationwides explanation for why they werent questioned about  the spending. 
They noted theyd had transactions questioned with other banks even  when smaller  amounts 
were involved.
One of our investigators considered the case and thought it should  be upheld,  with Nationwide 
refunding the loss. She acknowledged Mrs P had breached the terms and conditions of the 
account and had been grossly negligent in keeping her card and PIN together. But she thought  
the first disputed transaction was so unusual that Nationwide ought  to have stepped in to 
question it. In making that recommendation the investigator  referred to Nationwides 
responsibility to monitor accounts to protect consumers  from fraud and financial harm. She 
didnt feel those responsibilities  had been fulfilled  and that, if they had, the loss would have 
been avoided.
Ref: DRN11835744In addition to the loss being refunded she recommended interest be paid at 8% simple and 
that Nationwide pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in Mrs P 
being refunded.
Nationwide didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It maintained  that Mr 
and Mrs P should be responsible for the loss, given  Mrs Ps actions. Had she not kept a record 
of the PIN with the card the transactions would  never have been possible.  It also made  a 
number of comments in relation to not stepping  in to question the transaction:
whilst  the transaction  might appear unusual it was chip and PIN authorised and so 
should have been safe and secure;
they dont alert payments because they are unusual but because  they have concerns it 
might not be the customer using the card;
the account was relatively new and so there was little previous activity to compare 
spending against;
Nationwide has literally  thousands  of customers buying a car with a debit  card every 
day and almost none of them will have bought  a car before and
customers wont leave a large balance in a current account unless they intend to use 
the funds shortly;
The case has been passed  to me for a full review and final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part. Ill explain why.
I can see theres no disagreement between the parties as to how the loss to Mr and Mrs P has 
come about. Its accepted  by all that Mrs P had her card and PIN together and it was stolen by a 
fraudster. There also seems to be little dispute that Mrs P was at fault in keeping  her card and 
PIN together.  She has failed  with gross negligence to keep  her card and PIN secure.
Under both the account  terms and the relevant  regulations (Payment Service Regulations  
2017) this would normally mean Mr and Mrs P are responsible for the disputed transactions  
carried out on their account. Liability would lie with Mr and Mrs P as they hadnt  kept all cards 
and PINs safe and secure.
But I also need to take account of Nationwides obligations in respect of protecting  Mr and Mrs 
P from fraud and financial  harm. Its here where  I find Nationwide must bear some responsibility 
for the loss. It should have  stepped in to question the spending and I believe it should  have 
done so from the first transaction of £25,947.52.
my thoughts on the first payment
I believe this payment  was so unusual, both in terms of Mr and Mrs Ps  albeit limited  
spending, and for a debit card payment generally,  that it ought to have flagged  as unusual to 
Nationwide. Its such a large sum of money to have been authorised by way of a chip and PIN 
transaction that I believe Nationwide  ought to have  questioned it. There are other factors  at play 
that strengthen  my thoughts here.
The payment goes through in Euros and, on examination of the evidence, this appears to be 
because it was made on a payment terminal  registered in Italy.  The detail of the transaction in 
Nationwides records show it as having been processed in Italy.  Nationwide suspects  the 
terminal was likely  brought  into the UK, possibly  for fraudulent use such as this.
I believe its fair and reasonable to say this ought to have been another cause for alarm  when 
Ref: DRN11835745the transaction was submitted for processing.  Whilst its true that many customers  will carry  out 
genuine transactions abroad, without issue every day, it is less common for payments on a UK 
card to be made overseas, as it at least appeared to have  been here.
Even more so when the value is as high as it is here. It seems highly unlikely  that such 
transactions take place in any great volume  and Ive seen no evidence to the contrary.
I can also see that Mrs P had made a genuine  withdrawal  a little over an hour prior to the first 
disputed transaction. That withdrawal was correctly registered as having taken place in the UK. 
And yet, for all Nationwide could tell, the card is then used for a transaction  in Euros, in Italy, an 
hour later.  That would  essentially mean the card would have  to be in two places at once. And 
that of course doesnt take account of the balance  enquiry that appears to have been carried out 
by the fraudster. That was only minutes before the first fraudulent transaction.
I have questioned Nationwide  on its assurance that the transaction was chip and PIN verified, in 
order to confirm a cloned card wasnt in use. Im satisfied it was the genuine  card being  used, 
following those enquiries. The electronic  records and Nationwides explanation is persuasive  
here. And so its difficult for me to understand how transactions were  being  approved  and not 
questioned  when the card couldnt possibly have been where Nationwide  believed it to have  
been.
I can also see the merchant the payment went to is listed as being  a family  clothing supplier. 
That also seems to reasonably prompt questions about the transaction. A payment in excess of 
£25,000 to a clothes retailer does not seem as though it can be common enough to consider 
normal. I accept there will be some  customers with the means to spend such amounts  with a 
clothing retailer. But I dont  believe that represents normal consumer spending  and it ought to 
have been another factor which should have led to Nationwide questioning  what was happening.
Had Nationwide acted and stopped the transaction, as I believe it fairly  and reasonably ought  to 
have done, I believe  the loss would have been avoided. Contact from Nationwide would have 
meant Mrs P quickly realising her card had been stolen and she could have confirmed  the 
spending was not genuine. Nationwide neednt have even proactively  contacted  Mrs P here; 
blocking the card would have bene enough. In time Mrs P would  have noticed her card missing 
anyway, leading  to her initiating contact with Nationwide and confirming  the theft of her card. 
Either way, the loss would not have  been  suffered.
my consideration of Nationwides arguments
Nationwide has argued that as the chip and PIN were used to authorise the payment there was 
no indication that the transaction wasnt being carried out by the consumer genuinely. But if it 
were to apply  that logic to all transaction monitoring  then it would never  detect any fraud 
involving a card and PIN. And its clear Nationwide  doesnt rely on such information alone, as it 
did block a later attempt at a transaction which was also made via chip and PIN. It hasnt 
explained why it decided to block  that payment but not this one. And Nationwide is of course 
well aware  that fraudsters will obtain cards and PINs and not necessarily as a result of a 
customer having kept both together.  So it seems it wont be relying on chip and PIN alone. And 
even if a customer has kept a card and PIN together, I dont believe that means  an account 
provider has no further responsibility to protect its customer from fraud. Such obligations  still 
exist, even when a customer  might have authorised a transaction  themselves as part of a scam,  
for instance.
Nationwide has also said it doesnt block transactions because they are unusual but because it 
believes the card may be in the possession  of an unauthorised party.  Again, its not given  any 
context to how it makes this decision. And I wouldnt  necessarily expect  Nationwide to fully 
disclose how it decides  to block  one transaction but not another. But I dont find the argument 
persuasive as it must  be the case  that unusual  spending  behaviour   whether  a single or 
multiple transactions  factors into such decisions. Unusual transactions are an indication that a 
customer may be falling victim to fraud or financial harm, a fact recognised  by the industry  as a 
Ref: DRN11835746whole and supported in industry  guidance and best practice.
I accept the account was relatively new, having only been opened  a little over a month.  Its fair 
to say this does give limited information from which to establish normal  patterns of behaviour  
and it might, at times,  be more difficult to detect fraud. But here the debit card transaction  is so 
huge its difficult  to see how it might ever be described  as normal.
Nationwide has sought to give some  context  here and has referred to literally thousands of 
consumers using debit  cards to buy cars every  day. And I take its point about such people 
having never  bought a car before to mean there wont be a similar  previous transaction  on their 
account. I dont find this point persuasive either. Nationwide hasnt provided  any data about 
how many  transactions  of similar value are made every day, but I find it difficult to believe  its 
literally thousands or that all of those transactions are for amounts in excess of
£25,000. It seems  unlikely  there  are all that many chip and PIN transactions for such  a high 
value taking place. And even less that take place overseas, as Nationwide  must have believed 
this transaction was. Even if it were  the case, Im still satisfied  Nationwide ought to have 
intervened in this particular case.
Its also the case that the payment clearly wasnt for a car. The information tied to the 
processing of the payment  indicates a family clothes retailer, as Ive explained before.  And so 
the explanation of purchasing a car seems somewhat  removed from whats actually happened 
in this case. The actual  recorded nature  of the transaction was quite different,  as already 
discussed, and seems as though it ought to have been taken into account.
The final point Nationwide has made is that customers will rarely leave large sums in a current  
account. Im not persuaded that is necessarily  true either. I believe many people will maintain a 
large current account  balance. Whether thats for easy  access to funds or because savings 
accounts attract so little interest.
Im persuaded, for all of the reasons Ive set out above, Nationwide ought to have stepped in at 
the point of the first transaction given how unusual  it was. Had it done so, and blocked  the card, 
all of Mr and Mrs Ps loss would have been avoided. Nationwide didnt actually  need to 
proactively contact Mrs P to prevent the loss, though I believe it would have been a reasonable 
action to take here.  But a block on the card would  have been enough. Mrs P would  have 
contacted the bank on noticing her card missing.  It would then have been cancelled with no 
transactions having been  processed.
My finding here then is that Nationwide has been at fault and ought to bear responsibility for the 
loss.
should Nationwide  refund the entire £34,923.71 Mrs P lost?
Ive already covered  how and why I think  Nationwide  ought to have intervened, and the likely 
impact of this. And I think Nationwide was at fault for allowing the payments to be made. But I 
also think it fair that Mrs P takes a share of the blame  for her losses, given  she was keeping her 
card and PIN together.
So, overall,  while I think  Nationwide ought to have done more to satisfy  itself that Mrs P was not 
a victim of fraud.  I dont currently think  it would be fair to say it should  refund the entire  amount 
that was stolen.
During a recent case  in the Supreme Court, it was held that a bank  could and should 
have intervened to protect their (commercial) customer from fraudulent  activity that 
ought reasonably to have triggered concerns (Singularis  Holdings Ltd v
Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC 50). And it was found  that the bank was 
liable for damages  and required to repay its customer.
Ref: DRN11835747Im mindful that in that case, the court made a reduction in the damages awarded as a result of 
the customers contributory  negligence. And on the facts of this case, I believe Mrs Ps actions 
were negligent, even  grossly  so. She kept her card and PIN together knowing the risks that 
entailed and in breach of her account terms and conditions. She may not have appreciated that 
so much money might be spent so quickly. But she was aware that her account would  be open 
to abuse if the card and PIN were obtained. As such, I think, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, it would be fair to make a reduction of 50% of the value of the refund.
putting things  right
Ive found that Nationwide ought to refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ps loss. And so £17,461.86  should 
be returned to them. 
I also find it would be fair for Nationwide to pay interest on the refunded sum, at the applicable  
account rate. That interest is to be calculated  from the date the money left the account to the date 
of settlement. Ive made this finding  in place  of the 8% recommended by the investigator  as, 
whilst the absence  of this money has no doubt affected  Mr and Mrs P, it appears from the account  
statements Ive seen theyve  been able to maintain  a reasonable  balance in their current account 
and havent had to seek additional borrowing elsewhere. Should Mr and Mrs P wish to provide  
evidence to suggest their finances have  been  otherwise adversely affected, aside from the loss 
itself, then Ill consider  it before issuing my final decision.
I find our investigators recommended compensation of £250 to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I do believe  Nationwide could have concluded this matter  much sooner, or 
perhaps have  avoided  the loss altogether.  And so compensation  is fairly and reasonably 
payable.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint in part and the redress due to Mr and Mrs P is likely  to be along 
the lines explained in this provisional decision.
Ill consider any further evidence and arguments put forward by either party  before reaching  my 
final decision.  Any further submissions should reach me by 4 February  2020.
Ref: DRN1183574