K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Europ Assistance S.A. refused to pay her full claim under her travel  
insurance policy after she had an accident  abroad.
Mrs Fs complaint has been  brought to us by her son Mr F and daughter-in-law Mrs H.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold this complaint. I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
Mrs F was on holiday in Europe when  she unfortunately fell and broke both her shoulder  
and leg (the femur  or thigh bone). The following day her son Mr F contacted  Europ 
Assistance. He explained that Mrs F wasnt receiving a good standard  of care and that he 
was arranging for her to travel back to the UK by a private ambulance with paramedics and a 
nurse. Mrs F had surgery in the UK and she made  a claim for the amount of just over £8,000 
it had cost to travel  home.
Europ refused to pay Mrs Fs full claim.  It said it hadnt authorised  the costs of the private 
ambulance. Europ said it would have arranged  for Mrs F to have the surgery abroad.  It 
would then have  arranged for her to fly home with a medical escort. Although  outside  the 
policy terms Europ said it would pay the amount it would have cost Europ to fly Mrs F home, 
and said this was approximately  3,100 euros. 
Mr F said that after a great  deal of trouble finding the correct telephone number he had 
contacted Europ before bringing his mother home.  He said Europ had authorised the 
ambulance repatriation and Mrs F hadnt  been fit to fly by commercial airline. Europ wouldnt 
increase its offer so Mrs H brought Mrs Fs complaint to us. Mrs F, Mr F and Mrs H also said 
theyd had a poor service  from Europ in response  both to the claim and the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Europ had offered a reasonable 
settlement because the repatriation costs had already been incurred before Mr F called it. 
Mrs H, for Mrs F, didnt agree. She explained  why it wasnt possible for Mrs F to have  the 
required surgery abroad. As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaints come to me 
for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the nasty  accident which Mrs F experienced while  abroad  and I hope  
shes made a good recovery  now. In giving reasons for my decision I will need to describe 
some sensitive medical information. Im sorry for any additional distress this causes. 
I am also sorry to hear that Mrs Fs husband  also suffered a heart  attack shortly after they 
returned to the UK. I hope he has recovered. 
The Europ policy requires Mrs F to contact it immediately if she is admitted to hospital  or 
wants to return home  early. If she doesnt do this then the policy  says Europ  might  not 
Ref: DRN15604852provide cover or might  reduce the amount  it pays for her treatment and return  to the UK. 
This is a common term in travel insurance policies.
In this case Mr F did contact Europ before Mrs F came home.  I need  to decide whether 
Europ was fairly entitled to pay only a reduced  amount towards  the costs  of the repatriation 
organised by Mr F. I dont  think it did make  a fair decision and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation between Mr F and Europ made while  he was still 
in the UK. I understand Mrs F had her accident on Sunday 25 February.  Mr F was able to 
reach Europ  on Monday  26 February.  Mrs F came  home on Thursday 1 March. In summary  
the conversation  included  the following information:
Mr F explained that Mrs F had had a bad fall, had broken her shoulder  and leg 
(femur), having tripped while getting out of a car. She was with her husband,  Mr Fs 
step-father, but he was very unwell too. 
Mr F had arranged for a private ambulance  to collect  Mrs F and return her to the UK 
that coming Thursday morning.  She couldnt fly and was coming home by ambulance 
with two paramedics and a nurse.  
Europ  said that it would need  to see a medical  report from Mrs Fs doctor to see how 
it could help her and it could arrange for her to come  home in line with that report. 
Mr F said hed already  paid the ambulance to collect her. 
Mr F had experienced a great deal of difficulty making contact with Europ through the 
airline which had sold the policy. He would  be complaining to the airline. 
He and his sister were  flying out the next day (Tuesday) to give Mrs F proper care 
until Thursday  morning. He described another serious medical condition that meant 
she had soiled the bed and had been left in her own mess. He was very unhappy  
with the state of the public hospital where she was being treated.
Europ  asked if the doctors said Mrs F could  travel  home.  Mr F said she could travel 
but not on a commercial airline  and it would  be around £23,000 for an air ambulance.  
She couldnt  get in and out of a plane,  and because of her injuries  had to lie at a 45 
degree angle for comfort.  With the land ambulance  she could sit in more comfort  and 
be taken  directly to the hospital in the UK. 
Europ  said it would normally arrange  the repatriation, but if Mr F was ready it was up 
to him. He could do it or if he preferred Europ could do it. Europ said he could ask 
for reimbursement.  Mr F said hed ask for reimbursement as hed already paid the 
ambulance company for the whole thing with the return journey taking up to 16 hours. 
He asked how to make  the claim and Europ said it would  send a link to him.
Mr Fs step-father would be flying home on Thursday as originally planned. 
Europ  asked if it could  call Mrs F to see if she needed anything.  Mr F said he was 
arriving the following day and could be contacted  at the hospital. Europ said it would  
normally organise the repatriation from beginning to end. Mr F asked  for a policy  
schedule and Europ said the schedule had its number,  and you can do it [the 
repatriation] as you are doing, it is not a problem for us Europ said it hoped all 
would be OK but if there was any problem with the service to contact  Europ again.  
Europ said it would  call Mrs F now.
I think Europ should properly have explained  the relevant policy terms during that 
conversation. Mr F clearly  didnt have  the policy details and had asked Europ to send them 
to him. In particular, it should have explained to Mr F that it would only pay for the land 
ambulance if it decided this was in line with medical advice and if it was medically necessary 
for Mrs F to return to the UK for surgery. It failed to do this and the impression Mr F was 
given was that it would reimburse  him for the journey home. I think  Mr F gave Europ the 
Ref: DRN15604853opportunity to explain the correct position  before Mrs F travelled home. So Ive gone on to 
consider whether Europ prejudiced Mrs Fs position  (through the information  it gave to Mr F) 
and whether shed  have  acted differently if shed known about  the full policy  requirements.  
Ive considered all the comments  about  why the family decided that Mrs F should return  to 
the UK. Theyd tried to contact Europ earlier but hadnt been able to do so. I dont find that 
was Europs fault, but it does explain the delay was for a genuine reason and not because of 
any fault on the familys part. The family  were  very upset about the treatment Mrs F was 
receiving in the hospital abroad and the lack of nursing care.  But theyve also since 
explained that Mrs F had previously had a total knee replacement (TKR). Mr F says the 
hospital surgeon abroad told them  that he needed the medical  code for that TKR in order to 
operate on Mrs Ks femur  as the fracture was close to the knee. Without the code it meant 
the hospital couldnt operate.  And this was time sensitive, as the medical evidence is that 
Mrs F needed surgery within a week of the fracture to reduce the risk of other fracture 
related complications  such as thrombosis. Mr F has explained that theyd  not been able to 
locate the code. 
Europ says that Mrs F could have  had the surgery abroad. Its medical  officer says that she 
wasnt fit to travel and that the hospital abroad could have carried  out the surgery properly 
and safely. It says Mr F had already decided on his course of action having made a payment 
to the land ambulance company an hour before the call and paying the balance the following 
day.
But we dont  have  any medical reports from the treating doctors abroad about whether  Mrs F 
could have had surgery in the public  hospital  abroad, without the code  that is mentioned in 
the medical report. Europ could also have contacted both Mrs F and her doctors  following 
Mr Fs call to it. It knew about  his plan for repatriation  but it failed to get any medical 
information or explain the risk that Mrs Fs claim might  not be paid without supporting  
medical information. 
Europ argues that it was Mr F who prejudiced its position. But I dont agree. He did contact 
Europ before finalising the ambulance arrangements. So Mr F did give Europ that 
opportunity  even  though he had decided to arrange Mrs Fs repatriation  himself. If Europ 
had explained  the full position then I think Mr F had time to make  different arrangements.  He 
might not have gone on to pay the ambulance in full. Its difficult to know  exactly what he 
would have done but it seems unfair  for Europ now to restrict the costs  it will pay having told 
him that it would reimburse him for the costs  and failing to warn him about the risk it 
wouldnt pay without clear  supporting medical evidence.  I think it did prejudice Mrs Fs 
position. 
I think the fair outcome is for Europ to pay Mrs Fs claim, with 8% simple interest. If Mrs F 
can show that shes paid a higher amount of interest on the costs (she mentioned  an 
overdraft) then it should pay the higher interest rate and fees, subject to evidence.  
I think Europ could  have  handled the claim and the subsequent  complaint  more efficiently. It 
did offer to pay a reduced amount based on the costs it would have incurred to bring  Mrs F 
home with a medical escort  after surgery. Thats an offer wed usually expect an insurer to 
make where a consumer  has made a decision to travel home  in the full knowledge that the 
insurer will pay only a reduced amount to them; for example, where an insurer wants to bring 
a consumer home for surgery  but they decide  to pay for surgery abroad. That wasnt the 
case here. Rather Mrs Fs very concerned family  were trying to do their best for their elderly 
Ref: DRN15604854relative who was suffering  from multiple  health  issues. Europ was the expert and should 
have explained  the full position to Mr F about the restrictions  in the policy.  
I think its fair for Europ  to pay Mrs F £200  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by its handling  of the claim. I do appreciate  Mr F and Mrs H have also been 
impacted by these  events.  But I cant make an award to Mr F or Mrs H as they arent eligible 
complainants under  this policy.
responses
Mrs H responded on behalf  of Mrs F to say that they were  pleased Id upheld  the complaint, 
albeit frustrated with the time it had taken. She had no further information to provide and was 
happy with my ruling. She asked for funds in sterling with any currency exchange charges to 
be paid by Europ,  and asked about  providing bank details. 
We have sent Europ the provisional decision by post and email but despite a reminder it has 
not responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H on behalf of Mrs F has accepted  my provisional findings.  Ive not received any 
response from Europ. 
As Ive not received any additional  evidence to consider I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision. I uphold  this complaint for the reasons set out 
in that decision. Im sorry its not been possible to finalise  our process before now.  
I agree  Europ should pay Mrs F the sterling  equivalent of the costs  of the land ambulance,  
using the exchange rate that applied at the time Mr F paid for it. In this way there will not be 
any exchange rate loss. Ive not received any evidence that Mrs F paid interest at above  8% 
on the money used  to pay for the land ambulance so I award 8% interest  as set out below. It 
will be for Europ to liaise with Mrs H about  bank details for payment  of the claim.
Ref: DRN15604855my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. 
I order Europ Assistance S.A. to pay Mrs Fs claim for the costs of the land ambulance (less 
any amount already paid towards  the claim, if any, less any applicable excess not already 
applied). Europ  must pay the sterling  equivalent using the exchange  rate that applied at the 
time Mr F paid for the land ambulance. Europ must add simple interest* at the rate of 8% per 
year to the resulting claim payment from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
I also order Europ to pay Mrs F £200  for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Europ  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs F how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs F a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1560485