K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) was irresponsible  when it 
gave him short term loans. Mr M asks it to clear his credit file.
background
Mr M took out 19 instalment loans with Sunny between January 2015  and July 2016. He 
says he was in financial hardship and also borrowing  from other short term lenders. Mr M 
says Sunny is partly responsible for missed payments on the last loan,  which resulted in a 
default recorded on his credit file. He says information recorded by Sunny on his credit file is 
impacting his ability to get a mortgage.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said Sunny shouldnt  
have offered Mr M loans  6 to 19. He said by loan 6 Mr Ms pattern of borrowing suggested 
he was reliant on loans from Sunny. Hed taken out six loans in four months and the amount 
he borrowed  didnt reduce. He also had loans  with other short term lenders and had a 
default recorded on his credit file in mid 2015. 
The adjudicator said Sunny should refund interest and charges on loans 6 to 19, with 8% 
interest, and remove entries about them from Mr Ms credit file. He said it could apply  the 
refund to reduce any outstanding balance. 
Sunny didnt agree. It said it allows customers the flexibility to take out several  smaller  loans  
instead of one larger one  so the number of loans Mr M took out isnt significant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate. 
Each of the loans  given to Mr M needed to be repaid in six monthly instalments. So the 
amounts that Mr M needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a longer 
period. And for some of the time he borrowed from Sunny Mr M had more than one loan 
open at the same time.
Mr M took out loans  1 to 3 (each of £100) over four days  in late January 2015.  He repaid all 
three loans  at the end of February  2015. Mr M took out loan 4 (of £600) in mid March and 
loan 5 (of £250) less than a week later. He took out loan 6 (of £100) in April 2015. 
Ref: DRN19840282When he took out loan 1, Mr M told Sunny  his monthly income was £1,600. He said his 
income was £1,650 when he took out loan 5. I dont  think, given the amount of the monthly 
repayments, Sunny had any reason  to think Mr M would have difficulty  repaying  loans 1 to 5. 
I think that its important to note that Sunny needed to establish  that Mr M could sustainably 
repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  This means that Mr M should be able to meet  loan repayments without 
undue difficulties while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow 
further.
Certain factors might suggest that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have  done  more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These include the amount of the loans 
and the repayments, Mr Ms income and the number and frequency  of loans. Repeat 
borrowing could suggest that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.  
There may even come  a point where the pattern of lending itself demonstrates  that the 
lending was unsustainable. I think that this point was reached when Mr M asked  for loan 6. 
Ive explained  why below.
Sunny says Mr M could  have chosen to take out fewer,  larger loans. But I need  to consider 
what actually happened. Mr Ms borrowing pattern  taking out six loans with Sunny in less 
than three  months   suggests he might  have been having trouble managing his money. And 
he took out loans 2, 3, 5 and 6 while  previous loan(s) were  still outstanding. Sunny was 
aware from its credit check that Mr M also borrowed  from other short term lenders.  While this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  it cant lend to him, I think added to what  it knew  about Mr Ms 
borrowing pattern, this could also point to him having problems managing  his money.
Mr M repaid loans 4 and 5 at the end of June 2015.  He took out a new loan in July 2015 and 
at least one loan in each month from August 2015 to January 2016  (at which  point hed 
taken out 18 loans within 12 months). The amounts of the loans  varied, but there wasnt a 
consistent reduction in the amount Mr M owed. Mr M wasnt  making any real inroads  to the 
amount he owed Sunny. In effect,  Mr M paid large  amounts of interest to service a debt to 
Sunny over an extended period. I think Sunny should reasonably  have known this borrowing 
wasnt sustainable.
While there  was a gap of about three  months  between Mr M repaying  loan 18 and taking out 
loan 19, I dont think this was sufficient  for Sunny to reasonably believe any problems he had 
with his finances had improved. 
I dont think Sunny should have given loans 6 to 19 to Mr M. So it should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  6 to 19;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  applied to loans  6 to 19, apply the refund to 
reduce any capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr M; and
remove all entries about  loans 6 to 19 from Mr Ms credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Sunny  intends to apply 
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Ref: DRN19840283my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Elevate Credit International Limited to 
amend Mr Ms credit file and pay the compensation as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1984028