K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited placing a marker against  
him on a fraud database.
background
Mr A took out car insurance  with LV. LV said that Mr A knowingly gave an inaccurate 
address so as to get a cheaper premium. In October 2017, LV cancelled the policy  and 
reported the incident to the Credit  Industry  Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS), a fraud 
prevention agency  that keeps a fraud database.  A marker was placed against  Mr A saying 
he gave false information, namely his address, when taking the policy.
Mr A complained saying  the address he gave was his correct  address. But LV didnt uphold 
his complaint. Mr A complained to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the 
complaint. He felt that LVs actions were  reasonable. As Mr A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr A has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to 
decide if LV have dealt with Mr A in a fair and reasonable  way.
Under the policy, Mr A is required to give correct information at all times. The policy  says:
If you or anyone representing  you provides  us with misleading or incorrect  
information to any of the questions asked when applying for, amending or renewing 
this insurance; deliberately misleads us to obtain cover,  gain a cheaper premium or 
more favourable terms; we may: [] cancel or void your policy
Where fraud is identified, well also: [] pass details to fraud prevention  and law 
enforcement agencies who may access and use this information.
LV can record information with CIFAS  if they have enough evidence to make a formal  
complaint to the police  or other law enforcement  agency. They dont  have to actually make a 
formal complaint, but they must have enough evidence to be able to do so. I expect LV to 
have carried out thorough  checks  to do this. LV would have to find dishonesty in the 
personal information supplied by Mr A or show his behaviour amounted  to fraud.  
I think LVs decision to report Mr A to CIFAS was reasonable. I think  LV cancelled  the policy  
without giving Mr A the seven days notice under the policy. And he feels they didnt give him 
the opportunity  to respond to the allegation. But since cancelling the policy in October 2017, 
I think Mr A has been given ample  opportunity  to respond to the allegation and to provide 
evidence.
The policy address Mr A gave when taking out his policy was some 90 miles from his 
parents address where he lived. LV said the evidence suggested he lived at his parents 
Ref: DRN11348562address. Mr A said the policy  address was near the university he was studying at. And while 
he visited his parents frequently, he lived at the policy address. Mr A gave LV information to 
prove he didnt live at his parents address. But LV said he failed to prove  he lived at the 
policy address. 
When LV challenged Mr A, he initially said he could supply utility bills to prove  he lived at the 
policy address. He also told LV he had negotiated a new tenancy agreement  with his 
landlord for the policy address. But he later changed that to say he didnt have a tenancy 
agreement because he was sub-letting  and he later changed  that to he was living at his 
girlfriends address.  And while Mr A did provide the first page of one mobile phone  bill with 
his name  and the policy address on it from August 2017, he wasnt  able to provide  any utility 
bills such  as gas, electricity, water or a council tax bill. I note Mr A provided a number of 
letters addressed  to him at the policy address, but LV said that they didnt prove  he lived at 
the address as people often use another address as a correspondence  address. Mr A said 
that he was studying at a university  near his policy address, which is why he lived at the 
policy address. I think Mr A could have  provided documentary evidence  from his university 
confirming his attendance, what he was studying and the dates he was there. But he didnt 
do that. He did provide  a one page  document showing term dates, but that was generic and 
not specific to Mr A. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1134856