K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed  to offer adequate 
compensation for a claim he made under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(section75) relating to a package holiday.
background
Mr D purchased an all-inclusive package holiday for a special celebratory holiday in 
September 2018. He paid £2,000 on a Santander  credit card and £1,312  using his debit 
card. Before travelling, he was made aware the hotel he had booked was undergoing some 
planned maintenance and he needed to change  the accommodation. When he decided  on a 
suitable alternative, he paid a further £800.
When Mr D and his wife arrived  at the hotel they were very disappointed to find, the room 
was not the same as they had seen in photographs prior to booking  the holiday.  They  felt the 
room had been misrepresented to them and so complained to the tour operator.
The tour operator offered £175  of holiday vouchers by way of compensation but Mr D didnt 
feel this was adequate and so contacted  Santander to raise  a Section 75 claim as part of the 
holiday had been  paid for using his Santander  credit  card.  Santander reviewed his claim and 
upheld it in part, offering £500  compensation for misrepresentation of the room. Mr D again 
didnt feel this reflected  the loss of enjoyment  of this special holiday. He felt £2000  was more 
appropriate and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr D. He agreed the room had been misrepresented  
but explained in looking at any compensation he needed to look at what  Mr D had received 
compared to what he was expecting. In his view, Mr D had still received a 14-day holiday 
and had access to all the facilities, including an all-inclusive package and flights. In his view, 
as Mr D didnt seem to encounter any problems with the facilities  and  the main dispute was 
with the room itself he thought the £500 offer from Santander to be fair and reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree. He cited a number of legal cases stating damages  may be awarded  for 
distress, stress;  frustration and upset have been  caused because of a loss of enjoyment of 
the holiday. He also makes  the point this was a very special holiday for he and his wife, 
which he feels, has been ruined. The compensation reflects  the difference in room  cost but 
not the impact  this had on his wife and himself. He asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr D. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
Ref: DRN18676632when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr D made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.  
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Its clear from the information  provided  by both parties that there has been  a 
misrepresentation of the room. Santander has acknowledged the tour operator  had incorrect  
photographs of the room  on the website. These have  since been corrected. Mr D has argued  
the photographs of the room were the main reason he booked the alternative 
accommodation and paid an upgrade to secure this particular room. 
What Im required  to consider is if the £500  offer of compensation  by Santander is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. My starting  point for compensation on upholding a 
complaint about  misrepresentation  would  be to put the complainant  back  in the same 
position he would have been in if he had never  entered the contract with the travel  agency. 
That would usually  mean issuing a full refund.  But, in this case, that is impossible,  because  
Mr D has already been on the holiday. Its not possible  to undo that, so giving him a full 
refund would be equivalent  to giving him a free holiday. That would not be proportionate or 
fair. Indeed, Mr D hasnt  requested a full refund as he accepts  he has been on the holiday.
So, Im required to take into account  what Mr D has benefitted from as well as loss of 
expectation in reaching my decision.  From what Ive seen Mr D and his wife have received a 
14 day all-inclusive holiday with flight and transfers.  I have considered that Mr D accepted 
the alternative accommodation and paid for it before  the enquiries from the tour operator 
received a response. I appreciate Mr D felt he had no choice but I dont have any 
contemperous evidence  from the discussion with the tour operator, regarding the options 
available to consider. I have  noted Mr D says the room had a very limited sea view rather  
than an ocean  view. This might not have  met Mr Ds expectation of what a sea view room 
might be but that is not enough for me to say he didnt get a sea view room.
Santander has offered  compensation,  which amounts to the difference  in cost between  the 
room Mr D was expecting  and the room he received, and I find that fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and so Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1867663