K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the length of time Cabot Credit Management Group  Limited 
(Cabot) took to credit a payment she made against her credit  card account. She also 
complains Cabot hasnt  sent her a final statement.
The issues  under consideration in this complaint are the concerns Miss K raised about the 
actions of Cabot.  The complaint against another debt collection company (W) and Miss Ks 
bank, are subject to separate complaints and wont be dealt with in this decision.
background
When Miss Ks credit card account  fell into arrears,  her account was passed to a debt 
collection business, who Ill refer to as W, in June 2016. Her account  was later sold in 
July 2017 to Cabot. But W continued to administer the account on Cabots  behalf.  This 
meant that W were still responsible for collecting Miss Ks payments.
 
On 28 September  2018, Miss K made  a payment of £138 directly  to her credit  card provider 
(her bank). But this wasnt  reflected on her account  with W until 22 October. Miss K made a 
complaint to W. The complaint was then sent to Cabot after she referred her complaint 
against W to this service.
Having reviewed Miss Ks concerns Cabot  upheld her complaint.  It said that when it became 
the legal  owners  of her debt, it took the decision to allow  W to continue  administering her 
account. But as Miss K was still paying via her bank, which would send the payments  to 
Cabot, who in turn would forward these  to W, this sometimes caused  delays. It said this is 
why Miss K was asked  to pay W directly.
On 2 October 2018 Cabot received a payment from Miss K via her bank for £138. It said it 
then forwarded  this to W on 8 October. And that W updated its records  on 22 October. It was 
unable to say why there was a delay in W recording this information.  In recognition of the 
delay and inconvenience this caused,  Cabot offered Miss K £100 which  included  £2.16 for 
an overpayment on her account. In terms of this overpayment, Cabot explained  that when 
the account was transferred to them by Miss Ks bank  her balance showed  as £696.84. But 
W had this recorded  as £686.84.  As there was an error between  W and Cabot, Miss K was 
charged the lower  figure of £686.84. This meant when she made her final payment, she 
effectively overpaid by £2.16  which  Cabot  included in its award of £100.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Ks complaint. But she considered the amount paid by Cabot 
for the inconvenience  was fair. Miss K disagreed with the investigators  view so the matter 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint but I think what Cabot has paid Miss K for the distress and inconvenience,  is fair. 
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Miss K has raised  a number  of points 
during her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point shes raised,  Ive 
considered everything  Miss K has said but limited my findings to the areas which  impact  on 
Ref: DRN18856352the outcome of the case. I would also like to acknowledge  that due to Miss Ks personal  and 
health situation, I appreciate this decision has come at a difficult  time for her.
Miss Ks complaint is that Cabot didnt believe she had made a payment on 2 October 2018 
when she had done so. She says that this meant  that it was effectively calling her a liar 
which Miss K says has caused  her a great deal of distress.
I note that Miss K, for the most part, wasnt contacting Cabot directly.  The phone  
conversations she had were with W. Ive listened to these calls and I can hear that Miss K 
was given quite  clear information on the best way to make her payments. As W was 
responsible for administering her account, she was told she should pay W directly. But 
instead she chose  to pay via her bank who would pass the payment onto Cabot who would 
then pass this on to W. I acknowledge Miss K may not have been happy  her debt had been 
passed on. But I consider it was made reasonably  clear to her that paying through her bank 
rather than W directly,  could sometimes  cause  delays  with her payments.
That said,  I can see an error  was made  which meant that W didnt record the payment she 
made on 28 September until 22 October 2018. This was longer than her other payments 
which were paid in the same way. Cabot said it was unable to say why Miss Ks account was 
not updated by W when it sent the information to W on 8 October. But W has provided an 
explanation of why this happened. And whilst I appreciate the businesses may not agree 
with the reason why the delay happened, as Cabot has noted,  I dont think  Miss K can be 
held responsible for that. Also I do think  that Cabot, as legal owners  of the debt, were  
ultimately responsible  for ensuring  Miss Ks account was kept up to date. So its right it 
should compensate  Miss K. But on balance, I think the £100 it offered her which includes a 
sum for an overpayment of £2.16, is fair taking into account the length  of delay and the 
updates Miss K was receiving from W. 
As noted above,  Miss K was dealing directly with W by phone. I dont think  there is any 
evidence that Cabot directly, or indirectly,  suggested that Miss K was a liar.
I know Miss K wants a final statement as she is concerned  the true balance is not reflecting 
the payments  she made. Whilst Cabot hasnt produced  statements in the format Miss K 
wants, it has told her, in writing, that her account  has been paid in full and is now closed with 
nothing further  to pay. So Im satisfied this is sufficient evidence of the status of the account.
So for the reasons Ive set out above,  whilst Im upholding Miss Ks complaint, Im not 
making any further award than the £100  Cabot has already offered her.
my final decision
Im upholding the complaint. I require Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited to pay 
Miss K £100. If this payment has already  been  made, I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Ref: DRN18856353Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1885635