K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
in 2002. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr R says he wasnt aware  he had PPI until he recently asked Bank of Scotland  to check. 
The PPI was part of a policy that also included critical illness  cover, which  Mr R does 
remember agreeing  to. While our adjudicator looked at the critical illness  cover  as well, Mr R 
has asked for a final decision only on the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From  what I know about  how this type of PPI was sold by Bank of Scotland,  I think  its 
most likely that Bank  of Scotland made  it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems  to have had a need  for the cover. Although he had a small amount 
of savings and some  sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this for up to two 
years. So it wouldve left his sick pay and savings available  for other  things, and 
ensured he didnt fall into arrears on his mortgage  if he was off sick or became  
unemployed. 
Its possible  the information Bank  of Scotland gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have  been useful for him if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including  what he has said about  not knowing 
he had PPI, and that he was surprised to find he had it. But these points dont change my 
decision. The documents Mr R wouldve received for the critical illness  insurance,  which  he 
remembers having, would also have mentioned the PPI  because  they were  part of the 
same policy.  So it seems  unlikely that he wouldnt have been aware of it at the time. The 
sale was a long time ago  as was the cancellation of the policy in 2008  and I think its 
likely that Mr R has simply forgotten about  having the PPI. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr R paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Mr R back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Bank of 
Scotland has already paid this to Mr R.
Ref: DRN13473622my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1347362