K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc registered a CIFAS marker against  his name 
when it closed his credit card account. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.
background
Mr S had a credit  card with Capital One.  At the end of 2018 Capital One wrote to him to say 
that it would  be withdrawing the account  facilities from him after two months. Initially,  Mr S 
complained about that decision, but he now accepts that it was one that Capital One was 
within its rights to take. I shant therefore comment any further on the account closure.
When Mr S tried to open a bank account, however, he was unable to do so. He identified 
that the reason for that was that Capital One had placed a CIFAS marker against his name.  
He asked Capital  One to remove the marker,  but it refused to do so. Mr S referred  the matter 
to this service.
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. She didnt think  that Capital One 
had shown that it had good  reason to place the marker against Mr Ss name. She 
recommended that Capital One arrange  for its removal and that it pay Mr S £100 by way of 
compensation.
Capital One didnt accept the investigators  recommendations  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional  decision, indicating that I thought it likely that I would  
reach a different conclusion from that reached  by the investigator. Capital One had said that 
payments to Mr Ss credit card account had come from a number of different sources. It had 
identified in particular  two payments  one in January 2018 for £2,500 and one in November 
2018 for £2,100  which had been reversed. Mr S had said that hes made an error in setting 
up the direct  debits under which those payments had been made; he said he was dyslexic  
and had incorrectly entered his bank account  details. 
I observed however  that both payments had come  from bodies whose bank account  details 
could be easily obtained online; both routinely take payments from the public, so their bank 
account details  are public. I noted  too that their account details are very different from Mr Ss 
own account details.  I didnt think it likely that Mr S had simply made  an error; and it was 
extremely unlikely that hed made  the same error twice and that in each case the result had 
been a payment from a similar body to his Capital One account. 
In the circumstances, I thought that Capital  One had sufficient evidence to support 
registering a CIFAS marker against Mr Ss name. I said I wasnt  therefore minded to require 
Capital One to remove the marker.  
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  findings and asked that I issue a final decision. He said 
that he had recently  cleared the balance on his Capital One account and that this was a 
reason for it to remove  the marker. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14357782Ill deal first of all with the new development here  namely, that Mr S has cleared his 
account balance.  Capital One registered  a CIFAS marker not because Mr S owed it money 
but because it thought  he had acted dishonestly. So, payment of any money due to Capital 
One is not a reason for me to change my provisional view of this complaint. 
I remain unconvinced  that Mr S made  an honest  mistake when providing his own bank 
account details.  The account details he provided  were very different from those of his own 
account. On each occasion, the sort codes and account numbers were those of genuine 
accounts. And on both occasions they were  the publicly available  account details of similar 
public bodies.  I dont believe that was a coincidence.  
I noted in my provisional decision  that, when the payments were returned,  no replacement  
payment was made. Mr S hasnt sought to address that. 
Its not for me to say whether any criminal activity has taken place, but I do take the view that 
Capital One had sufficient evidence here to make  a report. It follows  that it had enough 
evidence to register a ClFAS marker. I dont therefore propose to require it to remove  that 
marker or to pay Mr S any compensation.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Capital Once  (Europe) plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1435778