K821x#15complaint
Miss V is unhappy that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) wont refund a number of 
payments made via her account  that she says she didnt authorise.
background
Miss V has an account with PayPal. On 21st January 2017, a billing agreement was created 
in connection  with her PayPal  account. This allowed a third party  to collect  payments from 
her credit card account via PayPal. On 10 February, several payments totalling £124.66 in 
value were made from her account.  
Miss V says that these payments werent made by or otherwise authorised. She said that 
she was at work at the time the payments were made and so they couldnt have been 
authorised by her. She also says that she lived alone in 2017 so it couldnt have been  
anyone else who had access to her phone or laptop.
It isnt clear what these payments were for. They seem  to be connected with a social  media 
website. Miss V says she has an account with that website but that she only uses  it sparingly 
and wouldnt  have  authorised payments through it. PayPal hasnt been able to provide any 
information about what these payments were for.
PayPal said that the IP address that was used when the billing  agreement  was created is 
one that has been used  by Miss V in the past for legitimate transactions.  It therefore thinks  
its likely  that she authorised these payments. It also says that, even  if she didnt authorise 
them, she had an obligation  under the terms of its user agreement to keep  the account 
secure.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. She didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to say that Miss V had authorised the payments. PayPal disagreed  with 
the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to same  
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic  position  is that PayPal shouldnt hold Miss V liable for the payments unless the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that she authorised them.  The relevant rules are 
contained in the User  Agreement connected  with Miss Vs account. These say that PayPal 
wont hold the consumer liable for unauthorised  transactions so long as theyve not allowed 
a third-party to have  access to their PayPal ID which would allow  them to make  payments 
from the account. Unfortunately, theres  very little information available to make sense of 
these payments - but I dont find the evidence that Miss V authorised  them to be persuasive. 
I say that because:
Miss V told us that she was at work at the time the payments were collected  making  
it unlikely that the payments were made by her.
Ref: DRN13974802Its not clear what these payments were for. Neither Miss V nor PayPal has been  
able to shed any light on what  service the merchant provided in exchange for these 
payments. Nor is there any evidence to suggest  that payments of this kind represent 
typical account use by Miss V. 
While  it appears that the payments were  made  to a major social  media site, Ive not 
seen any evidence  that the payments were  collected in connection with her account. 
And given Miss V has told us that shes only an occasional user of her account, I 
dont think the evidence strongly  supports that it was her who signed  up to the billing 
agreement.
Overall, I find that the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss V didnt authorise 
the payments  and so PayPal should refund  them in full. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA now needs to refund the transactions to Miss V without 
delay. It will also need to add 8% simple interest per annum on to the total amount 
calculated from 10 February  2017 until the date it pays the settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020 .
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397480