K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the fees charged  for advice by Wren Sterling Financial Planning  
Limited (the business)  that he didnt go ahead with.   
background
One of our investigators  having considered the complaint  thought it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
By signing  the fee arrangement,  dated  6 March 2018, Mr D generally agreed  to pay 
the business for financial advice he received.
The agreement made clear the following:
oA minimum £1,000  fee will apply  for researching and planning as well as 
arranging and implementing the recommendation.  
oSet charges  will apply  for lump sum payments e.g. for £60,000 the initial 
charge will be 3.5%.
oA fee will apply for the work done even if the advice isnt proceeded with or 
implemented. The fees can be higher  depending  on the circumstances e.g. 
where the work is complex. But the fees outside  of the normal bands  will need  
to be agreed in advance. 
Mr D signed the cheque payment to the business on the basis that he was going 
ahead with the recommendation. But he later changed his mind - which he was 
entitled to do without needing a reason.  He thought  hed have to pay the full fees only 
if he implemented the recommendation,  but not if he didnt go ahead with the advice.   
There was no documentation that made clear that he would have to pay the client fee 
or more  than the minimum fees, if he rejected the advice. 
The documentation,  however, did make clear  that higher fees would need to be 
agreed in advance.  So if there were different tiers of payment and Mr D needed to 
pay higher/full fees, this should have been  made clear to him in the fee agreement.  
Higher fees, in this instance, wouldnt have been  obvious to Mr D from the phrase 
Outside of standard bands, and it would have been reasonable to get his authority 
before going ahead. 
On this basis the business  should  refund Mr Ds money, with interest, less £1,000 for 
the fees. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he maintains he didnt receive  the 
fee agreement  or letter  setting out the charges.  He believes  that the letter was produced 
after he submitted  his complaint and anything he signed was on the basis of an oral 
agreement which didnt  clearly set out the fees.  He believes any CCTV footage  from his 
interview should support his case. He also says the advice wasnt in his best interests and 
thats why he didnt go ahead with it - so he doesnt agree that he should have to pay £1,000 
towards the fees. 
The business also disagreed with the investigators  view and felt that it was entitled to the 
fees charged for advice, regardless.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13087882Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. 
Mr Ds provided  lengthy  submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr D and the business  and reach  what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice. However,  Im not bound  by it. And as a fresh pair of eyes looking 
at the complaint, its for me to decide, based  on the information Ive been  given,  whats  more 
likely than not to have happened. 
In the circumstances, despite  what  Mr D says, I dont  think  he can reasonably justify not 
paying anything  at all. Payment for advice, whether it be legal or financial, isnt generally 
dependent upon it being adopted, unless  specifically agreed.  So the receiver usually has to 
pay for the work done,  whether or not the advice is accepted. 
I appreciate neither party is likely  to be content  unless they get what they want. But the 
question at the heart of this complaint is how much Mr D is liable to pay for the advice he 
received.  
I agree  with the investigator that the business, in its fee agreement  signed by Mr D, made 
reasonably clear that minimum  charges would apply for the advice work  it had done.  But the 
business didnt  make clear that there  were  tiers - which would mean the cost of advice 
would be much higher,  and more importantly, didnt agree a higher fee in advance.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded the business went  ahead  with 
the more complex  and time consuming work,  without prior agreement  with Mr D regarding 
the higher cost - which I dont think is fair or reasonable. 
I note the business might  argue that the fees were agreed in advance, and thats why Mr D 
paid the cheque. But I dont think this was an unconditional advance payment. I note the 
cheque was paid on the basis that he was going  ahead with the advice and dependant on 
how much  he invested, and included fees for arranging and implementing  the 
recommendation. But because he also retained the right to change his mind,  it seems he 
thought by inference if he didnt invest anything he wouldnt have to pay anything.   
That notwithstanding, Im satisfied it was made  reasonably  clear  that he would have to pay a 
minimum £1,000 for the advice  which I think he should pay  unless a higher amount was 
agreed in advance, which Im not persuaded it was. 
In the circumstances, I think its only fair and reasonable that Mr D is returned  the money he 
paid by cheque, less the £1,000 contribution for the advice, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date his cheque  was cashed  to the date the settlement payment is made. 
Ref: DRN13087883I appreciate Mr Ds concerns with the situation  and recognise hell be disappointed Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the matters careful 
consideration, I dont  feel able to conclude that he should be refunded all his money without 
any deductions at all. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Wren Sterling Financial Planning 
Limited should pay redress as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1308788