K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a catalogue  shopping  account payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in 2006. Mrs V says Studio Retail Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs V also took out product protection, but Ive not considered it as part of this decision as 
its different to PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although Mrs V has said that PPI was never an option and was taken out under false 
pretences, Ive not seen strong evidence to support what Mrs V has said. I say this 
because:
oAlthough a call recording is not available, Ive considered what  we know more 
widely about how Studio Retail sold PPI during phone calls around  the time 
this policy was taken  out alongside  a sales script  that Studio  Retail  has told 
us their adviser would  have followed.  
If this script was followed the PPI would have been presented as optional 
before consent  was gained to add it. Ive not seen strong evidence that Studio 
Retail didnt follow it during this sale;
oThe PPI was added to the account a number of years after the account  
opened and Studio  Retail  have told us that Mrs V didnt  take the opportunity 
to add PPI on a 5 other occasions. Their  system  records show  that it wasnt 
added on February 2003 during a phone call, June 2003 following a written 
promotion or during further  phone  calls in April 2004, march 2005 and 
November 2005. So I cant fairly  say that Mrs V was unaware  that PPI was 
optional;
oIm not persuaded by Mrs Vs point that the PPI was added without her 
knowledge as shes acknowledged that it appeared on her statements but 
that she felt the PPI was presumably a charge for using  the internet. I say this 
because shed been using the account  for a number of years  before the PPI 
was added. I think shed quite reasonably have questioned the charge for PPI 
if it was something that she hadnt been  aware of taking  out.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that the PPI was presented  as optional 
and Mrs V chose to take it out. 
Studio  Retail  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs V so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs V got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Ref: DRN17096092Its possible the information Studio Retail gave Mrs V about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Studio  Retail  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs V.
But Studio Retail will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs V from 6 April 2007  the 
date when the catalogue shopping account  lending became regulated  because : 
Studio  Retail  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs V about that. Because Studio Retail  didnt 
tell Mrs V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Studio Retail has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  (on or after 6 
April 2007) - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs V has said - including what shes said about not needing 
PPI because of her sick pay entitlement. But Mrs V has told us that she would have been 
entitled to less than 3 months sick pay. This PPI policy could have paid out for up to 10 
months per claim. 
So, although  the PPI was comparatively more  expensive  than other  PPI policies  sold around 
this time, it did offer a comparatively higher benefit  and could have provided useful cover for 
Mrs V given her particular circumstances. So these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Studio Retail  has to pay back to Mrs V any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium (from  6 April 2007).  Studio Retail  should  also pay back  to 
Mrs V any extra interest she paid because of that.
Studio Retail  should  re-work the account and pay back  to Mrs V the difference between  what 
Mrs V owes  and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Studio  Retail should also pay Mrs V 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her account at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs V can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN17096093my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Studio Retail Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs V.
But Studio Retail Limited  does  have to pay back to Mrs V any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium from 6 April 2007. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1709609