K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about Capital Professional Ltd (trading as Ascot  Lloyd). He is unhappy 
about the commission payments it received after it became the adviser on his pension plan.
background
Mr K holds a pension plan with a third party. The financial advisers  linked to the plan 
received annual commission. Ascot Lloyd took over the business  of the appointed advisers 
in 2014. It says that it wrote to Mr K to tell him about  this. Ascot  Lloyd began  to receive the 
trail commission in 2015  and received further payments in 2016 and 2017. Mr K terminated 
his agreement in early 2018.
Mr K complained saying  that he had not received  a service from Ascot Lloyd,  there had been 
minimal contact and no real advice.
Ascot Lloyd didnt  uphold  the complaint. It said that there  had been  contact with Mr K in 
October 2015 and there had been  meetings  in November 2016 and December 2017.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. An adjudicator investigated and decided it should  
be upheld. She said that although there  was no set of regulations for what a regular review 
service should consist  of, under the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), there is an 
expectation that a business should  provide a service  for the commission its receiving from 
the policy. She didnt  think any real service had been delivered and said that Ascot Lloyd 
should refund the commission payments.
Ascot Lloyd didnt  agree.  It said that it had been in contact with Mr K and there had been 
meetings. It asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
 
I considered the case and made  provisional  findings. I said:
Ascot Lloyd says that it took over as the adviser  on this pension  plan in 2014. It says 
that it wrote to Mr K to tell him. It cant produce a copy of the letter  but I think  its likely 
that it did write to him. There was then some telephone contact in October 2015 and 
it says Mr K was sent a client  agreement although  this wasnt  returned.  Theres  
nothing to show that this was chased up but there was a meeting in November 2016 
which was left incomplete as Mr K was going  away on holiday.
There was then a more comprehensive  meeting in December 2017 when a fact-find 
was completed,  advice  given  and a charging agreement  signed. Mr K didnt  accept 
the advice given, and terminated  the agreement in March  2018.
I can understand Mr Ks concerns, there seems to have been little contact from Ascot 
Lloyd until the meeting  in November 2016. Theres nothing  to show that any reviews 
were being carried  out. But it seems  to me that there  was substantive contact in 
November 2016 and December 2017.
I think Mr K could  reasonably have  expected  Ascot Lloyd to do more, particularly in 
the time before the November 2016 meeting. But it was always open  to him to 
terminate the commission payments and appoint different  advisers  if he wished. This 
is what he did in 2018.
Ascot Lloyd did provide some service,  particularly  in 2016 and 2017.
I said that my provisional view was that it would be fair in all the circumstances if Ascot Lloyd 
agreed to make a payment to Mr K that represented 50 per cent of the total commission  it 
Ref: DRN19663572received. I think that would fairly  reflect that Ascot Lloyd ought to have done more whilst 
acknowledging that it did provide some service to Mr K.
Mr K accepted my provisional conclusions saying he had nothing  to add.
Ascot Lloyd also accepted the decision.
my final decision
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As my provisional decision was accepted, 
I uphold this complaint.
Capital Professional Limited must pay to Mr K a sum equal  to 50 per cent of the commission  
it received. It should add interest to reflect the loss of use of this money.  Interest should be 
at the rate of 8 per cent per annum from March  2018  when the agreement  was terminated 
up to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1966357