K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that Leap  Finance Limited  set up an additional life protection  policy 
without her knowledge and now wont refund the extra  amount she has paid for the 
unnecessary policy.
background
Mrs M was sold a life insurance  policy by Leap  Finance in July 2017.  In December 2017 she 
noticed she had been debited twice  for the premiums. She raised  this with both Leap 
Finance and the policy provider. The policy provider confirmed that two identical policies 
were set up but this was requested by Leap Finance. So as it was merely acting on 
instructions it wasnt responsible for incorrectly setting up the policies.
Leap Finance  refunded around £200  of the extra premium Mrs M paid but not the full amount 
leaving around £500 left to reimburse to Mrs M.
Mrs M has said it has been trying to communicate with Leap Finance about the amount 
outstanding but hasnt  heard anything from it since  March 2018.
The investigator who assessed the case felt it should be upheld. Because of the entire lack 
of information  from Leap  Finance she wasnt able to conclude anything other than a second 
policy was set up incorrectly  and without Mrs Ms knowledge and so Mrs M had been paying 
double in premiums  unnecessarily.
She therefore felt Leap Finance should refund the remaining premiums for the incorrect  
second policy, plus interest.
Leap Financial  didnt respond  to the assessment. So because of this the complaint has been  
passed to me to conclude.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.
As alluded  to above, no information has been provided by Leap  Finance despite numerous 
requests dating  back to November 2018.  This includes  any argument to refute  Mrs Ms 
complaint or any business investigation files which  normally  we would rely on. Therefore  
I cant consider Leap Finances side of the complaint.
I therefore have  no choice but to take account  of Mrs Ms version of events alone.  Having 
done so I see no reason  why she would have set up two identical policies for identical cover.  
So I am satisfied that one of the policies  was set up incorrectly.
I know it can be argued that it was the responsibility of Mrs M to cancel the incorrect  policy 
but she has said she didnt know the two policies  were  running at the same time until she 
noticed the premiums  had been  debited and I have  no reason to doubt this. Also in my view, 
four months of not noticing the premiums  isnt unreasonable.
Ref: DRN13678422So in lieu of any information from Leap Finance at all, I think it incorrectly set up the second  
life protection  policy for Mrs M.
what Leap Finance Limited should  do to put things right
Leap Finance  must pay Mrs M a full refund  of the premiums paid to the incorrect life policy  
that was set up, plus interest at 8% simple per annum, less any refund Mrs M has already 
received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Leap Finance  Limited must reimburse Mrs M the outstanding premium  plus interest, as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1367842