K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial  Services Plc (M&S)  sold her debt to a 
third party without telling her.
background
Mrs B said that she got her credit report,  and discovered a new account on there, which she 
didnt recognise.  She said that when she rang the debt collection company named on her 
credit report,  it told her that M&S  had sold her debt to it some time ago. She said she was 
shocked that M&S hadnt told her about  this. When she looked again at her credit file, she 
saw that her debt to M&S  was no longer  there.
Mrs B said that she contacted M&S  about  this, and it said that she still owed money  to M&S. 
But the amount  that M&S said she owed  was less than the amount that the debt collection 
company said she owed. She said she spent a very worried  couple of days  thinking that 
perhaps these were two separate  debts,  so she still owed M&S and owed the debt collection  
company too, before  M&S  confirmed that it had sold this debt. 
M&S said that it was allowed to sell Mrs Bs debt. It made sure it only sold accounts to 
reputable companies.  Mrs Bs account had defaulted, and she was making payments 
towards this debt which were managed by a debt management charity.  M&S  said that in 
these circumstances,  it wouldnt ask Mrs B to pay off her debt before it was sold. 
There was some confusion about who M&S had written to about the sale of the debt. M&S 
has now confirmed that it didnt write to either  Mrs B, or to the debt management charity 
which is helping her, itself. It said that it asked the debt collection company to write to Mrs B 
for it. It had given that company  the right address for Mrs B. But M&S  didnt  have her new 
name. She hadnt  updated that with M&S. 
The debt collection company didnt send the letter to the right address for Mrs B. M&S says 
that this company may run a trace when it gets a new account, to try to find out where the 
person lives. It might then write  to the address it had traced Mrs B to, not the one it is given 
by M&S.
M&S told us that either it or the debt collection company  had told the charity thats helping 
Mrs B with her debts that it ought  to start paying the debt management company. It said that 
it had done this at the time of the sale. But it hasnt been able to show us any letters  that 
said this.
The charity  has kept paying M&S, but M&S said that Mrs B didnt  need  to worry about that, 
because all those payments had been  used to reduce Mrs Bs debt. M&S says that the debt 
collection company  that had bought  Mrs Bs debt has now definitely written  to the charity, 
and the charity would  send  her payments to that debt collection company from now on. 
M&S said that it realised  that Mrs B was still receiving statements from it. That shouldnt be 
happening, it was sorry about that. It asked her to send the statements back, so it could find 
out what had gone wrong.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that M&S  had given  the debt collection 
company Mrs Bs correct  address but it had written to her old address.  She said that M&S 
took the necessary steps when selling her debt. The terms of the account dont require M&S 
Ref: DRN15160682to give Mrs B advance notice that her debt is going to be sold.  And M&S gave Mrs Bs 
details to the debt collection company, expecting that it would contact Mrs B. M&S doesnt 
have to give Mrs B the chance to pay off her debt before its transferred either.
M&S has accepted  that it sent statements in error,  but our adjudicator said that there hasnt 
been any financial loss or an unreasonable level of distress just because of that. And M&S 
has forwarded all Mrs Bs payments to the debt collection company. So our adjudicator  
thought that M&S hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mrs B didnt agree with that. She said that M&S had failed because it hadnt told either her or 
the debt management charity  that was helping her, about the sale of her debt. She said it 
had a legal  responsibility to do that. And she said that this had caused her significant  
distress. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-M&S  is responsible, when a debt is sold, for informing  the person who owes money that 
their debt has been sold. It doesnt  have to do that before it makes  the sale. But it does 
have to tell Mrs B if there has been a sale. 
-In this case, M&S didnt do that itself.  It asked the debt collection company to do this for 
it. Its ok for M&S to ask someone  else to do this for it. But M&S is still responsible for 
making sure this happens. 
-In this case, we knew that the debt collection  company wrote to the wrong address. 
-M&S  said that it had given the right address for Mrs B to the debt collection company. 
But it told us that Mrs B hadnt updated her name with M&S.  It still held her old name. So 
thats the name that the debt collection company looked for. It found that name at one of 
Mrs Bs previous addresses, and sent the letter  telling Mrs B about the sale to that 
previous address. 
-I didnt know when  Mrs B changed her name,  so I didnt know whether she shouldve  told 
M&S her new name or not. But I did know that M&S had Mrs Bs current  address, and 
her full address  history. If it had written this letter itself, it wouldve gone to the right 
address. Or if the debt collection company had asked M&S  about Mrs Bs address, then 
M&S couldve told it that the address  it had found for her was an old address, and the 
letter would then have  gone  to the right address. But M&S asked the debt collection 
company to do this job for it. And that company sent the letter to the wrong  address. 
-I could understand  how the debt collection company made this mistake. But it was still a 
mistake, it was a mistake that M&S itself wouldnt have made, and it was a mistake that 
M&S is responsible for. So I thought that M&S should pay Mrs B some compensation 
because she didnt  receive the required notice  from M&S that her debt was sold.  
-I thought it was worth saying though,  that whether Mrs B got the letter  or not, this sale 
would still have  gone ahead. Mrs B couldnt have objected  to it, and although I 
Ref: DRN15160683understood she was hoping  at the time that she would shortly have the money  to pay the 
debt off, she didnt  quite have it at the time the debt was sold. All that wouldve been 
different, if no mistake had been made  in this case, is that Mrs B wouldnt have been 
worried by a new debtor appearing on her credit file. 
-I thought that M&S should pay Mrs B £50 for its part in causing her that worry. 
-Like our adjudicator, I didnt think that Mrs B was caused extra worry because she was 
getting statements  from M&S,  after those shouldve  stopped. So I didnt think  that M&S 
had to pay Mrs B more compensation because of that. 
-I knew that Mrs Bs payments were still going  to M&S, some  time after they shouldve 
started going to the debt collection company. I didnt know when the debt collection 
company first wrote to Mrs Bs debt management charity to ask it to start making  its 
payments to it, rather than M&S. But if there was a mistake about  that, I didnt think  that 
was M&Ss fault. The debt collection  company wasnt  acting on behalf of M&S  when  it 
did that. 
-I was pleased to see that M&S has confirmed that all the money  that Mrs B paid to M&S 
has been used  to reduce her debt. Including  the money she paid after the debt had been 
sold.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs B agreed with my decision, and said she had nothing further  to add. M&S didnt agree.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
M&S said it gave the debt company  all the correct address information when it sold Mrs Bs 
debt on. It said that at that point, it had discontinued  the relationship  with Mrs B and was not 
responsible for contacting her.
M&S said it was the debt companys responsibility to send the letter to Mrs B to tell her that 
her debt was no longer  with M&S and it was taking over the balance. That company didnt 
use the current correct  address  that M&S had given it, to contact Mrs B. This was the debt 
companys error. M&S said its not its responsibility to check that a debt company have 
proceeded correctly  once  the debt has been  sold. 
M&S also repeated  its argument that the terms and conditions of the account  mean  that 
Mrs B must inform  it of any changes within 30 days.  It said shed never told M&S that she 
had changed her name. The debt company obtained her previous address by doing a search 
on her previous name. 
M&S said therefore Mrs B and the debt company were at fault. Mrs B for not informing M&S  
of her change of name, and the debt company for not using the correct  address to contact 
Mrs B. M&S said that the debt company was responsible for this error  and should 
compensate accordingly.
My provisional decision set out why I didnt think that was right. Ive explained that M&S has 
a responsibility, under  the relevant law, to write  to Mrs B to tell her that the debt is being 
Ref: DRN15160684sold. It can ask a different  company to do that for it. But M&S doesnt  stop being  responsible,  
under law, for making  sure that letter is sent,  just because its asked someone  else to send 
it. And that means that if the company that M&S asked to send the letter doesnt do a good 
job, for whatever  reason,  then M&S  is still responsible for the mistake.  
M&S also said that Mrs B was at fault for not telling it that she had changed her name. I said 
in my provisional decision that I dont know when Mrs B changed her name. M&S hasnt told 
us that. So I dont think M&S has actually shown that Mrs B changed her name over 30 days 
before the letter was issued. But in the end, I dont think that matters  to the outcome of this 
case. As I said in my provisional decision, M&S  had Mrs Bs current  address, and her full 
address history.  If it had written this letter itself, it wouldve gone to the right address. It 
didnt. A mistake was made. M&S is still responsible  for that mistake, because the company 
that made it was acting  for M&S when it made the mistake. And thats  why I still think that 
M&S must pay Mrs B compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc must pay Mrs B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1516068