K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc applied unfair  charges when she returned a 
vehicle at the end of a hire period. She wants it to waive the charges.
background
Mrs W tells us that at the end of the hire period she returned the vehicle to Hitachi. She said 
she didnt agree with the charges which it applied in respect of corrosion damage to three  
alloy wheels. Mrs W says this was due to paint peeling which was outside  her control. She 
said shed provided  evidence from other  users  of similar models who had experienced the 
same issue.
Hitachi told us that the vehicle  had been independently inspected at the time of collection. 
And the report and photographs had shown the damage fell outside  the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines issued  by the British Vehicle  Rental  and Leasing Association  (BVRLA). It said the 
charges had been correctly applied.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said the charges  
were for corrosion to three alloy wheels and a dent (which Mrs W didnt dispute). He thought 
the photographs provided with the vehicle inspection report  showed  the relevant damage.  
And he said this fell outside  the guidelines issued  by the BVRLA. He said hed not found  
there were any known issues to suggest  the corrosion was due to a manufacturing fault. And 
he felt the charges had been fairly applied.
Mrs W didnt agree and said she didnt think the marks on the alloys  were due to corrosion. 
As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint  an ombudsmans been asked to make  the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ws disappointment when  she found  that additional charges would be 
applied at the end of the hire period. And where  facts are in dispute  Im required  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities.
Ive viewed the inspection report and seen  the photographs of the vehicle which  were  
supplied with it. Ive also considered the BVRLA  guidelines.  I saw that our adjudicators view 
letter explained the relevant parts of the guidelines  in detail - so I neednt repeat  them  here.
In my opinion the photographs clearly show the marks  on the alloy wheels and its more 
probable than not that these are due to rust/corrosion.  The vehicle inspector is trained to 
BVRLA standards and Ive seen no information which would cause  me to think  that this 
inspection didnt comply  with these requirements. I think the inspector would be capable of 
differentiating between corrosion and marks due to other causes. So I dont  think Hitachi has 
acted unfairly in relying on the report and applying the charges.
Our adjudicator made enquires  and was unable to identify any documented evidence  of a 
manufacturing fault with this vehicle  model. And whilst I appreciate  Mrs W provided 
comments - which  appear to come from online forum contributors -.I dont consider a small 
number of anecdotal remarks amounts  to evidence upon which I can reasonably rely.
Ref: DRN14684162I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mrs W but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1468416