K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Arval UK Limited  overcharged  him for damage to his leased car at the 
end of the contract.
background
Mr D leased car from Arval and the agreement came to an end. The car was collected by an 
agent acting for Arval  and he carried out an inspection. He reported a number of items of 
damage and the total sum due at that point was recorded as £955. Mr D didnt  agree.
The car was taken to Arvals depot and following its usual  procedures a second  examination  
was undertaken.  This only identified 3 areas of chargeable damage and Arval issued an 
invoice for £455.  Mr D challenged this and his complaint was rejected. He then brought  the 
matter to this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
He noted the terms and conditions set out the following:
At the end of the contract  term (or on early termination of this agreement  or late return  of the 
vehicle) the hirer will make  the vehicle available for collection. On behalf of ARVAL a 
representative will complete an initial report on the mechanical and bodywork condition of 
the vehicle including its mileometer reading. The hirer or its representative will sign a copy of 
that report. If the hirer or representative  fails or unreasonably refuses to sign such report  
ARVAL reserves the right to make such charges pursuant to this agreement as it shall 
reasonably think  fit. ARVAL shall invoice  the hirer for the cost of repairs  (whether or not 
carried out) to a vehicle  returned to ARVAL that is subject to damage which, in accordance 
with the BVRLA  fair wear  and tear guide for the contract hire industry, would constitute unfair 
wear and tear and/or for any diminution of the value of the vehicle resulting from a previous 
repair to the vehicle. All invoices for unfair wear and tear charges must  be paid by the hirer 
in accordance with clause  3 of this agreement.
He reviewed the report and photographic evidence and concluded that each area of damage  
fell outside fair wear  and tear as defined by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines.
He appreciated  Mr D wasnt given an opportunity to have his own independent  inspection  
carried out. However, he didnt think that would have made any difference,  as the damage 
was outside of fair wear and tear under the BVRLA  guide. He noted Mr D felt the charges 
were too high, but he considered Arval  was entitled to charge in line with its established  
procedures. Mr D didnt agree and said the charges werent fair. The original report had 
been wrong; Arval  had provided poor service and hadnt allowed him the chance to have an 
independent inspection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling, but I would say that I find myself in agreement with 
the adjudicator.  Mr D signed an agreement by which he agreed to pay for any damage  that 
went beyond fair wear and tear. Having looked at the report and photographs I can see that 
Ref: DRN15296002Arval has only invoiced him for damage that went beyond fair wear and tear. It has acted in 
accordance with the agreement.
I appreciate Mr D was unable to arrange  an independent inspection, but I have no reason to 
believe that would make any difference to the outcome. Arvals returns  guide gives  a clear 
explanation of what damage  goes  beyond fair wear and tear and Mr D had the opportunity  to 
inspect the car himself.
Arval runs a two tier process  whereby an initial report is done by the agent  collecting the car 
and a second one is done in house  under better conditions. After  the car had undergone a 
second inspection  the business  concluded  that several of the damaged areas  werent 
beyond fair wear and tear. I appreciate Mr D considers he was lied to, but I believe Arval  
took reasonable care to ensure it only charged for damage that went beyond fair wear  and 
tear.
The charges  imposed  by Arval are within its commercial discretion, but I consider  them  to be 
in line with the industry norm. Overall I am not persuaded  the treatment Mr D says he 
encountered with Arval is such that it merits any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1529600