K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK Plc has applied unfair charges to her account, for 
overdraft borrowing, over the last six years. She said texts Santander was supposed  to be 
sending to help her manage her overdraft were often wrong,  and her overdraft  amount  was 
wrong too. 
background
Miss H said she was having financial difficulties. Santander had been charging  her a lot for 
borrowing, and she didnt  think that was fair. She said that the text messages it was 
supposed to be sending her to alert her to her overdraft use were  often wrong,  so they didnt  
help. And she didnt think that Santander had got the right amount for her overdraft either. 
Miss H told Santander about  her financial problems, but she said it was still applying 
charges.
Santander said that all the arranged overdraft  charges on Miss Hs account had been 
applied in line with its terms  and conditions. And a court case  meant that its unarranged 
overdraft fees couldnt  be challenged as unfair.  It wouldnt  pay the charges back. 
Santander showed us the text alerts Miss H was set up to receive. It said it had previously 
paid some compensation for a complaint  about text messages, because in that instance it 
wasnt sure that the right text alert had been  sent. But the more  recent example shed given  
in her latest complaint wasnt a mistake. Alerts reflect the balance of her account at the time 
when theyre issued, but the balance can change after that. So it didnt think it had made a 
mistake. If she wanted to complain about other, specific instances of incorrect text 
messages, Santander  said she could tell it about  those, and it would look at them.
Santander also showed us Miss Hs overdraft  was set at the level she said it should be at. It 
didnt think shed actually  complained to it about  that, but it said there wasnt a mistake here 
anyway. Santander  said Miss H hadnt  told it before that she was in financial difficulties, but 
if she would  like to talk to its financial support  team now, they would  try to help her.
Our investigator said charges couldnt  be challenged  on the grounds they were too high, and 
hed checked  theyd been applied correctly. They usually  are, as the process is automated. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Santander  had made a mistake  with the text alert it send on 
26 October. He said that she cold complain to Santander about other texts if she thought 
there had been  more  mistakes. We couldnt comment  on them until Santander had. 
Our investigator said the amount  of Miss Hs overdraft was what  shed told us it should  be. 
Our investigator also said that Miss H had only just told Santander about her financial 
problems. He thought it had responded appropriately. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Santander  had to do more now, so he didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Miss H didnt agree. She wanted some time to speak  to the charity advising her on her debt 
problems, then she wrote to us to raise a number of new issues.  And Miss H also said shed 
tried to get Santander  to help her with her financial problems, and it wouldnt.
Ref: DRN16987962Our investigator said that hed separate out her complaint into issues  that Santander had 
already had a chance to address, and those it hadnt. The issues  Santander has had a 
chance to address would  form part of this complaint, and would go to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. The other issues, which included concerns about text alerts  and about  her 
overdraft, could form a new complaint. 
Miss H still wanted Santander to help with her financial problems, and said she wasnt  
getting help. Our investigator said we could only consider things up to the date of her 
complaint, so we couldnt help with her recent  efforts to get Santander to support her with 
her financial  difficulties. But our investigator  made sure that a new complaint about this was 
lodged with Santander. The case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
There are now three points to this complaint   was Miss H wrongly charged for overdraft 
lending by Santander, was her overdraft  at the right level, and was a text alert issued on 26 
October wrong or misleading?
Santander has correctly  pointed out that a court case in 2009  means  that unauthorised 
overdraft charges cant be challenged as unfair. That means  our service wont usually ask a 
bank to pay those  back. And, as our investigator has said, the charges for Miss Hs 
authorised overdraft were  applied in line with the terms and conditions  of her account. 
Ive looked through Miss Hs statements for the last six years, and I dont think that 
Santander shouldve  realised that Miss H was in financial difficulties. 
Taking account of all of this, I dont think Santander  has to pay back the fees Miss H has 
paid over the last six years. And I also think that Santander has responded appropriately  to 
Miss Hs initial  contact  about her financial difficulties. It offered the details  of its specialist 
team to help with this. 
Miss H says that shes contacted Santander about this since,  and it hasnt actually helped 
her. Our investigator explained that our service  would want to give Santander a chance to 
put this right,  before we took forward a complaint  about that, and I understand shes now 
complained to Santander about this.  
Miss H said she thought her agreed overdraft should be £400. Santander said thats what it 
was, and its showed us that this overdraft limit has been the same  since 2013.
Santander didnt  think it had made  a mistake with the 26 October text alert that Miss H 
complained about.  Its explained why the amount it included in the text alert wasnt the same  
as the balance when she checked. Miss H has contacted us since to say shes  discussed  
this with Santander, and shes now clear on how these alerts work. Im glad to hear that. 
Ive considered all the points  that fall within this complaint carefully, and I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Our service will respond separately on other  complaint points in 
due course, if Miss H brings those to our service.
Ref: DRN16987963my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698796