K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that CIS General Insurance  Limited  (CIS) settled a claim,  against her 
policy, as a fault one when she believes it should  have been  defended and the third party  
held at fault.
background
Mrs F was involved in an accident on 24 April 2017.  She reported the accident to CIS and 
based on her version of events CIS initially  tried to hold the third party at fault. The third 
party insurer  disputed liability and provided CCTV evidence  to support its insured.
Once CIS reviewed the evidence it conceded  and accepted liability and settled the claim on 
a without prejudice basis.
Mrs F complained as she felt this was unfair. CIS reviewed its investigation and remained of 
the opinion that it was right to settle  the claim in the way it did. Mrs F brought her complaint 
to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint;  he felt CIS had acted fairly when it settled the 
claim. Mrs F didnt agree and so the matter has been referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
In deciding whether  CIS acted fairly in how it settled the claim I note the policy, like every 
other motor  insurance  policy Ive seen, allows it to take over and conduct the defence or 
settlement of any claim. But it needs to be fair to Mrs F in settling the claim and by that I 
mean when  its more likely than not the claim against Mrs F would succeed in court.  This is 
because CIS wouldnt  want to risk all the costs and expenses in defending a claim that 
theyre likely  to lose in court.
CIS considered the testimony of both Mrs F and the third party  as well as the CCTV 
evidence and based on all of the information  available to it, thought it should settle the claim 
as it didnt believe it had enough evidence to defend  it
While I understand this has been  very frustrating for Mrs F, I dont think  there is anything 
else CIS couldve done to defend the claim.  Im satisfied  CIS was initially prepared to defend 
the claim.  But once  it was presented with the CCTV evidence it had to weigh up that against  
Mrs Fs testimony  and which would hold more  weight  if the matter  went to court.  Based on 
this I think was fair and reasonable  for it to settle  the claim. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN13013962CIS settled  the claim on a without prejudice basis, this means  that if Mrs F still believes that 
the claim could be defended,  she is free to take legal advice and pursue the third party 
through the courts.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1301396