K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he expected to receive  a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) with a 
five-year guarantee period when he wanted  to draw his pension  benefits from Standard Life 
Assurance Limited (Standard Life). But he says hes now been  told the fund isnt sufficient to 
provide a five-year guarantee. He doesnt  think thats fair as he believes Standard Life is 
contractually obliged  to offer the guarantee and should have managed the fund better  to 
ensure it could cover the GMP and other additional  benefits.
background
Mr H belonged to an employers Occupational  Pension Scheme  (OPS). In 1988 he agreed to 
transfer his OPS benefits, with a transfer value of £14,482, to new plan with Standard Life. 
The policy schedule noted that at Mr Hs normal retirement date (NRD)   which  was at age 
65  a yearly GMP of £6,316.68 would be paid. 
In early 2019 Mr H contacted Standard  Life as he wished to draw  his benefits from the 
pension plan. He had an initial conversation with Standard Life in March 2019  to discuss  the 
various options, although Mr H had already decided he wanted  to take the GMP available  
with a five-year guarantee included. But the adviser  he spoke with said he wasnt  aware that 
a five-year guarantee  was available on Mr Hs plan,  so he agreed to look further  into the 
matter.
Following further conversations, Standard  Life explained that, as there was a shortfall  in the 
value of the fund required  to pay the GMP, other ancillary benefits such  as the five-year  
guarantee wouldnt be available. 
So, Mr H complained about the inability  to access his benefits in the way he wanted to and 
also about the service  hed received  from Standard Lifes telephone team while  he was 
trying to draw his benefits. The complaint  about  the level of service  was answered by 
another part of Standard Life and Ill give my decision  on that complaint under a separate  
cover.
But, with regards to the five-year guarantee, Standard Life said that due to investment 
returns and annuity  rates falling, Mr Hs fund wasnt sufficient to provide the GMP and so it 
would have to make up the shortfall.  It said it was required  to do that but wasnt  required to 
provide further  funding  to provide additional  benefits  such as the guarantee. It said the 
guarantee didnt  form part of any contract and noted its plan policy provisions  said,  before 
any other benefits are provided, we must pay the GMP.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response, so he brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. 
She said that, while the illustration from 1988  wasnt entirely clear that the five-year 
guarantee was included  as an assumption, it did say it wasnt guaranteed.  And she thought 
the more recent annual  statements were  clearer about the five-year guarantee being an 
assumption and gave Mr H the opportunity to contact Standard Life for further  clarification. 
She didnt  think the statements were  misleading.  The investigator also thought  the policy 
provisions provided in 1988  pointed to Standard Lifes commitment to meet the GMP and 
widows pension  but not the additional  benefits  due to their required increased costs.  
Overall, she didnt recommend that Standard Life should have to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN14238822Mr H disagreed. He made the following points in asking for his complaint to be referred  to an 
ombudsman.
He took out the policy on the understanding that he would receive all the benefits 
stated  which included a widows pension and a five-year guarantee. This 
information was set out in the product literature, so it was assumed to be correct. 
He wanted  to know why the pension fund ended up being underfunded and couldnt  
cover all the ancillary benefits. He thought Standard Lifes investment managers  had 
a duty of care to ensure  no shortfall  existed.
We had admitted that the illustration from 1988  wasnt clear.
It had been  assumed  that Mr H had access to the internet when he didnt,  and he 
didnt understand  why he should have contacted Standard  Life when the information  
he received suggested  his pension  was on track to provide  the stated benefits.
He understood  that Standard Life was still required  to pay the widows pension but as 
a single person  he didnt  require  it. 
He didnt accept  that Standard Lifes commitment was only to meet  the GMP. He 
thought it was obliged to pay all the benefits  agreed at the outset  and should have 
ensured it was sufficiently well funded  to do so.
So as no resolution  could be found  the complaints been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I can see Mr H feels strongly about this whole matter as demonstrated by the submissions 
across his two complaints   which I can assure  him Ive read carefully.  And I have some 
sympathy for his position here as he believes Standard Life should  honour a contractual 
obligation to pay him an annuity  which he though  included a guarantee payment period. But 
I dont think Standard Life has done  anything  wrong  here which I know  is an outcome which  
will disappoint Mr H  so Ill explain why. 
Mr H says he has an illustration from 1988  which shows  that he should have a five-year  
guarantee payment included in his annuity.  But Standard Life says it hasnt  promised that 
guarantee and has always made it clear that, as Mr Hs plan includes a GMP, if the pension 
fund isnt sufficient  to cover that GMP  which it is obliged to pay regardless  no other  
additional benefits will be paid,  such  as tax-free cash or guarantees for example. 
So Ive considered the information Standard Life made available when Mr H took out his 
plan. Ive first looked at the transfer plan policy provisions under the section headed 12-
Benefits at vesting date which said:  
(4) the company  shall apply the sum available .in order  to purchase under the policy  at the 
rate or rates then available  from the company any one or more of the following  annuities-
(a)An annuity in respect of the person assured and
(b)An annuity or annuities in respect  of a dependent  or dependents of the person 
assured.
(6) if the sum available  exceeds that required to provide the maximum benefits permitted in 
terms of provision (4), the company shall apply the excess  sum, in such  proportions as the 
Ref: DRN14238823person assured intimates  to the company in writing, in order  to purchase under the policy at 
the rate or rates then available from the company and in respect of a dependents or 
dependents of the person  assured.
So, looking  at the policy provisions, I think Standard Life made it clear that it had to pay 
Mr Hs annuity in the first instance, followed by a dependents pension,  before it could 
consider paying  additional  benefits   which would  only apply if there  were  excess funds, 
which in Mr Hs case there  wasnt.  And I note another section confirmed Standard Lifes 
commitment to meeting  the GMP as it said where guaranteed benefits  are shown on the 
schedule, any adjustment resulting in a decrease  shall be applied  only to the extent  that it 
does not reduce any annuity secured in respect  of the person assured below the amount of 
the annuity described in Provision 15, and any annuity secured in respect of the person 
assureds widow or widower
So, it was clear that Standard Life had to meet the GMP within  the plan  even if the fund 
value wasnt sufficient to pay that level of pension.  That was one of the obligations of offering 
such plans when transferring  as was the requirement to provide a 50% widows  pension. 
Standard Life set out that requirement within its provisions  as well as explaining that other 
additional benefits  such as the five-year guarantee,  might not be paid if the fund wasnt 
able to cover  benefits in excess  of the GMP.
Ive also carefully considered the illustration that Mr H referred to during the telephone call, 
which had been  provided at the time of the transfer and gave an indication  of the potential 
benefits that might be payable at NRD based on two different assumed growth rates.  It said 
the transfer value would provide a fund at NRD which would  then provide a members 
pension and a dependents pension. No mention was made of any additional benefits 
although the notes said that illustrative pensions are payable monthly in advance  
throughout life. The illustrative  members pension is guaranteed for five years . 
So the illustration  Mr H had was based  on various  assumptions and one of those was to 
include a five-year guarantee payment period. But Standard Life had to make various 
assumptions in order  to give Mr H some indication of which  he might receive. It was 
explained that the figures shown  are not guaranteed and no forecast is implied, so I dont 
think it would  be fair to conclude that this constituted some kind of contract where a 
guarantee would always  be included at NRD. I think there were enough warnings elsewhere 
in the documents and annual statements to confirm  these  additional  options  werent  
guaranteed.
Ive also looked  at an annual statement from 2015 which  did include an assumption  that if 
you die within 5 years of getting your pension, well continue to pay it until the end of that 5-
year period . But that was beneath  a note about the figures which  confirmed that, theyre  
estimates so your benefits could be very different-your plan value  could be worth less than 
you paid in. 
I think that, in addition to what I said about  the assumptions within  the 1988 illustration, 
made it clear  that the five-year guarantee wasnt a guaranteed benefit within the annuity 
payment.
I also note that within  the original illustration the only reference  to guarantees was the 
following, guaranteed  benefits at normal retirement: Members pension  £6,317.76 and 
Widows pension £3,158.88. And these were the GMPs which Standard  Life did provide at 
Mr Hs NRD. 
Ref: DRN14238824I know Mr H has referred  to the illustration he holds  as some form of contract, but I dont 
agree. It was based on assumptions to ensure Mr H had something  to make him aware of 
what his potential retirement provision might  be. But it didnt make  any assurances about  
what would  ultimately  be provided  except around  the GMP and widows pension.  I havent 
seen any other evidence to show that Standard  Life promised Mr H it would include a five-
year guarantee or indeed any additional benefits   unless there  were  excess  funds which 
allowed it to do so. 
Mr H has suggested that Standard Life ought to have managed its fund better  to ensure 
there was enough  money to cover these additional benefits. But we wouldnt normally  uphold 
a complaint about investment performance alone,  unless there was evidence  to suggest that 
it was as a result of unsuitable investment advice. And in this case, theres  no evidence that 
Standard Life gave Mr H any advice or guidance. If Mr H is unhappy  about  the original 
advice he received to transfer his OPS benefits,  then he should raise  that as a complaint 
with the adviser  in question. If he remains unhappy  with the response,  then he can bring his 
complaint to us in the same way as he has here.
   
The cost of providing an annuity  varies  because of age, gender, lifestyle  and health factors  
but that cost can be calculated  using  annuity  rates. However, there  is another  cost that 
comes with building in additional  annuity  benefits such as guarantees for example. If 
someone wants to include  such benefits a further cost is taken from the pension fund.
But in Mr Hs case there wasnt  enough value in the fund to meet the GMP provision. So 
Standard Life had to underwrite that shortfall itself which meant  there wasnt  any money left 
to pay for the guarantee payment period - unless Standard Life paid for that shortfall  as well. 
But it wasnt  obliged to do that, and its policy provisions only dictated that it had to provide a 
GMP. And I cant  safely say it did anything wrong  if ultimately it met the condition  it was 
obliged to meet.  
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1423882