K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about Evolution  Insurance Company Limiteds (Evolution)  decision to 
decline her claim, under  her car breakdown  policy.
 
background
In August  2018  Miss S purchased a breakdown  policy with the insurer Evolution.  Miss S has 
the Silver  Policy in place that comes with home start.
In February 2019  Miss S was driving  her car home when  she says it started shaking and 
pulling to one side.  She says the steering stopped working as she approached her home. 
When Miss S got home she called Evolution  to notify them  that her car had broken down as 
the steering was faulty. 
Evolution denied  the claim on the basis that the incident didnt meet  the definition of a 
breakdown as per the insurance policy. It is defined as an electrical  or mechanical  failure  
which immediately renders the vehicle immobilised , including punctures where  you are 
unable to change  the wheel yourself.
Evolution offered  to assist Miss S at her own expense  on a private  basis  outside of her 
policy. Miss S declined this offer. Miss S told Evolution during the call that she was not 
satisfied with the service  she had received  and would  be raising a complaint.
A few days  later Miss Ss car was recovered and repaired by a local garage. Miss S has 
provided us with a copy of the invoice confirming the repairs and costs. Miss S wants her car 
recovery cost refunded, along  with the upfront premium she paid for her car breakdown 
insurance policy. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  saying  that Evolution had applied the term 
immobilised so strictly, that it was unfair  and unreasonable.  Our investigator said that 
Evolution should cover Miss Ss cost of recovery and pay her £50 to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Evolution disagrees with our initial outcome  so the case  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulation  states that a firm must  act honestly, fairly  and professionally  and that 
it should not unreasonably reject a claim. If an insurer doesnt think  it should pay a claim, its 
then for that insurer to show why the claim should  be turned down. With this in mind, Ive 
considered the evidence  Evolution has relied on to reach its decision.
Ive considered the definition of breakdown  in the policy  document.  In my opinion Evolution  
acted unfairly when rejecting the claim due to interpreting its terms too narrowly.  I say this 
because immobilised  means that something  or someone is prevented  from moving or 
operating as normal. Whilst it is not in dispute that Miss Ss car was able to start and move, 
based on what she told Evolution, it did not sound  roadworthy or safe to drive as it was 
Ref: DRN19762342pulling to the side. Miss S told Evolution  that she thought the steering column had been 
damaged. And, so in my opinion  the car was not operating as normal.  
Miss S told Evolution she was able to get the car home as she was close by when the fault 
occurred. Evolution says that because Miss S was able to drive  home,  the car was not 
considered immediately immobilised. As the car was not operating as normal,  the fact that 
she managed to get the car home  has no bearing on my decision.  I say this because  
Miss Ss policy also covered her for home  start assistance at or within one mile from her 
home address. And, the fault was such that meant  the car needed to be recovered. 
Miss S booked the car in at a local garage and it was confirmed that the drive shaft had 
snapped and needed to be replaced.  The invoice shows Miss S paid around  £250 for 
repairs, including £48 for call out recovery to bring  the car to the garage with lack of drive. 
These repairs took place  only a few days after the fault occurred and the diagnosis  was in 
line with the problems reported during the call to Evolution. So, its more  than likely  the 
repairs were linked to the fault reported on the day. This confirms that Miss Ss car was not 
able to operate as normal and so should have been  deemed immobilised.  As a result of 
Evolution refusing  to recover Miss Ss car, she incurred a £48 charge for recovery  by the 
local garage. 
Evolution needs to put Miss S back into the position  she would have been in, had the claim 
not been refused. This means it should pay Miss Ss recovery cost of £48. In the 
circumstances I think £50 for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable, taking into 
consideration the inconvenience caused  to Miss S by having to arrange her own recovery.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Evolution Insurance Company Limited  must pay Miss Ss recovery  costs. It should add 
interest to that amount  at 8% simple per year from the date Miss S paid for her recovery  on 
20 February 2019 to the date it makes payment. Evolution should also pay Miss S £50 for 
trouble and upset.
Evolution should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Miss S accepted  my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1976234