K820x#14complaint
Ms M complained she was mis-sold  a credit card payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Ms M took out the PPI in April 2002 when she applied for a credit  card.  BoS and Ms M 
agreed that the sale took place during a meeting and that Ms M was advised to take the 
cover. Ms M said she wasnt  given a choice about taking the PPI, it wasnt  suitable for her, 
and she wasnt given  enough information about it. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Ms M had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident sickness or unemployment, each  month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Ms Ms credit card agreement. This shows a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other information  on the agreement,  including  Ms 
Ms income and employment  details. So I think its likely that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. I consider it 
reasonable to think that Ms M would have looked  over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  Ms M was given  a choice about  whether to take it - and that 
she decided to do so. I think  she probably  just doesnt remember it after all this time.
Im satisfied BoS advised Ms M to take out the PPI. So it had to make sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Ms M wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Ms M told us she wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay from her employer of between three and 
six months pay, but had no other  ways  of meeting the monthly repayments on the credit 
card. So I think she could have found it difficult to make the payments if shed been off sick 
or lost her job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim. So I dont think  there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending  the PPI. 
Ref: DRN16043932Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Ms M. As Ive said,  I cant know  
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Ms M mightve been  given a policy  summary  
or full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits  may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Ms Ms circumstances, I dont think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if shed  been unable to work. 
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Ms M 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms M back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has made this payment to Ms M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1604393