K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about how long Nationwide Building Society took to send him a PIN following 
him opening an account.
background
Mr L opened a Nationwide  account in April 2019  and says he received the account card but 
not the PIN. He says that caused  him a significant amount of inconvenience as he was 
unable to attend a branch to make  a withdrawal. Mr L says he was caused embarrassment 
by asking a family member for money and would like compensation for what  happened.
Nationwide says it sent Mr L the PIN to his correct address but its not responsible for the 
safe delivery of the mail. It also says Mr L could have attended a branch on the weekend to 
withdraw money and doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator thought 
Nationwide had sent Mr L the PIN but it wasn't  responsible for the delivery of mail and had 
re-ordered a new PIN straight away. The investigator thought Mr L could have attended a 
branch to withdraw money.
Mr L didnt accept that view and said that he had received further information about  a block 
placed on his account caused  by a letter returned to Nationwide. He also says Nationwide  
was patronising in the way it dealt with him when he called it and questions  if the letter was 
addressed to him in the first place. 
Nationwide confirmed the PIN was sent to the correct address.
The investigator looked at the complaint again  and came to the same overall conclusion.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and would like an ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr L will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that having looked at Nationwides records  that it sent Mr L the account  card 
and PIN. Im satisfied Nationwide used the correct  address and Mr Ls correct  name.  But I 
also think that Nationwide isnt responsible for the delivery of mail and so I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for Mr L not receiving the PIN. I think that if Mr L has any concerns about the 
delivery of his mail then he will need to raise that with the business  that delivers his mail.
I think that when  Nationwide was made aware  of the problem it acted quickly  and 
appropriately by ordering a new PIN which I can see Mr L received. I appreciate  Mr L was 
caused inconvenience here but I dont think that was Nationwides  fault. And so it follows in 
those circumstances  I cant  fairly order Nationwide to pay Mr L the compensation he would  
like.
I appreciate Mr L says he had difficulties  attending a Nationwide branch in the week but I 
think he could have  attended a branch on the weekend in order  to withdraw money.  I have 
Ref: DRN16574972also listened to the calls between the parties. And I think Nationwide  staff dealt appropriately 
with Mr L during them and reasonably explained  what was likely to have happened and why- 
that the letter containing the PIN was returned  to it as it could not be delivered.
Overall Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasnt made  a 
mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1657497