K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Charter Court Financial Services Limited  (trading as Precise 
Mortgages) didnt process their mortgage  application fairly. They ask that it refunds fees and 
costs. Mr and Mrs M are represented  by their mortgage broker.
background
Mr and Mrs M applied to Precise  for a mortgage. They paid for a valuation. The surveyor  
said the property  wasnt suitable security and Precise declined the application. 
Mr and Mrs Ms broker says he told Precise at the outset there was building  work at the 
property. He says Precise  shouldnt have said it would consider the application  if it doesnt  
lend when there is ongoing  building  work.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said while the 
broker told Precise about the building work, he said it was nearing completion. The valuation 
report gave different information  about the planned  completion date and actual  condition  of 
the property. It was reasonable for Precise to ask for a valuation and to decline the 
application based on the information it received.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. Their broker said the onus was on Precise to ask for the 
information it needed to see if the application  met its lending criteria. He said nearing 
completion could mean different  things. The broker said Mr and Mrs M asked for about 
£50,000 to complete the work and £50,000 as a contingency, so Precise  must have known 
there was significant  work left to do.
The broker  said, since declining the application, Precise  had said it wouldnt consider a new 
application until the building work was finished  and all certificates are in place. The broker  
said this suggests  it would  never  have offered a mortgage while the works were ongoing and 
shouldnt have instructed the valuation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs Ms broker contacted Precise in September 2018.  He told Precise there was 
work at the property  to build a reasonably substantial extension.  The broker said funds were 
needed to complete the work. He said the extension  structure was built and the roof was on. 
He said at the end of the month the windows would  go in and the wall between the extension 
and existing building would be removed. He said the work was nearing the end and once the 
wall was removed it would  just be internal  work. 
The broker  said Mr and Mrs M needed  about  £50,000 to finish the work and another £50,000 
to repay  existing unsecured debts, mostly related to the building  work. The application was 
for £150,000. 
Ref: DRN16408402Precise said it could consider the application.  It said the application would  be subject to the 
valuers comments. Precise said the broker  could  explain  the situation  in the further 
information section  of the application for the underwriters to consider. The broker submitted 
the application in September 2018.  He added a note about how the funds would be used 
and that the extension was nearing  completion.
A valuation  was carried out in mid October  2018. The surveyor said the property wasnt  
suitable security. The valuation report said the property was being heavily refurbished with a 
large two storey extension. Works  were due to complete in May 2019  and the extension  
wasnt wind and water tight as windows hadnt  been fitted.
did Precise make  an error?
Precise said it does lend on properties  undergoing work. But this is dependant  on the 
valuation confirming the property is suitable security.  I agree that nearing completion is 
open to interpretation. But I think it was reasonable for Precise to consider the application  
based on the information it had. I dont think Precise knew   or should have known  before 
the valuation that it wouldnt be able to lend.
I think it was reasonable  for Precise to decline the application based  on the information in 
the valuation report. This said the property  wasnt suitable security.
Precise said it wouldnt consider a new application from Mr and Mrs M until the work is 
completed and the necessary certificates  are in place. I dont think  this means it never  lends 
while building work is ongoing. I think this was its response to the brokers query about this 
particular application.   
I think Precise made it clear that Mr and Mrs Ms application  was dependant  on the 
surveyors comments. So they knew there  was a risk that it wouldnt lend after the valuation  
was carried out. I understand Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed. But I think  Precise  acted 
reasonably when considering their application. So I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
require it to refund any fees and costs related to the application. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1640840