K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal finance PLC T/A Tesco Bank didnt refund a payment
he made to a company on his credit  card.
background
In August  2018,  Mr M says he booked a photoshoot for his son with a company Ill refer to as
S. Mr M says he paid S a £50 deposit  in advance to secure the booking.
Mr M says on the day of the photoshoot,  he was told by S that he needed to purchase a high
end portfolio for his son. Mr M says he felt pressured into buying the high end portfolio as it
was sold with the promise of a forthcoming  modelling job with a fashion company. Mr M says
he was also told the portfolio  would allow for his son to be registered with different agencies
which would provide ongoing  modelling  opportunities. The package cost £7,500  in total and
Mr M paid £2,500 of this total cost on his Tesco Bank credit card. Mr M says he paid the
remaining amount  across two other credit cards  and that he had raised a claim for a refund
with those banks.
The contract Mr M signed said he had purchased 100 photographs  to be supplied on a
CD-ROM, all of which would be digitally retouched. Also included was an online portfolio and
a digital Z Card for his son. Mr M says his son was promised modelling  work which  would
pay for the cost of the package in no time and that S had lined up a modelling  job with a
well-known fashion  brand for his son which would  pay him £2,000. Mr M also says his son
was promised 12 months of aftercare  service. The contract says that it was non-cancellable.
Mr M says whenever hes tried to contact S, hes not able to reach anyone. And when he
requests a call back, he receives no response  from them. Mr M reported  the matter  to Action
Fraud as he feels he has been a victim of a scam.  This was because Mr M says his son was
promised modelling  jobs which  didnt materialise. Mr M says he returned  the CD-ROM with
his sons photos  to S  as he says there were only 17 photographs  on the CD-ROM and not
the 100 which was promised under the contract. Mr M says as his son has not received  the 
products and services  he bought for him, he wants Tesco  Bank to refund  the £2,500 he paid
on his credit card with them.
Mr M raised  a complaint with Tesco Bank in October  2018.  Tesco  Bank considered  Mr Ms
complaint in two ways:
Chargeback
Tesco Bank said they would attempt a chargeback  in order to try and get Mr Ms money
back. They say S had challenged  it and provided Tesco  Bank with information  which  showed
Mr M had signed a contract  to confirm he had received the images  and the disc was working
correctly. S also said Mr Ms sons online profile  was still working  at that time.
Tesco Bank say Mr M wasnt able to provide enough  information to show his son hadnt
received the services he agreed to. So, they let Mr M know that they wouldnt be proceeding
with his chargeback  in December 2018. And they re-debited £2,500  from his account in
January 2019.  Mr M says he has been  treated unfairly.
Section 75
Tesco Bank then considered  Mr Ms complaint  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Ref: DRN108398421974. However, they said as there  was a fourth party involved in the transaction,  they didnt
think there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship.  Tesco Bank say the
fourth party involved are a business  who offer a facility where a prepaid card can be loaded
with funds to allow  a customer to spend  in certain  places.  In this case, Tesco Bank  say Mr M
used this method  to pay S.
Mr M says he paid S directly  using his Tesco Bank credit  card and that he doesnt hold an
account with the fourth party business. Therefore, he wouldnt  have been  able to make a
payment via the fourth party.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns. In summary, he said Tesco Bank shouldve
offered more assistance to Mr M in progressing the chargeback. In particular, our
investigator said Tesco Bank had enough  information from Mr M when considering his
complaint as a chargeback. He also said he thought there was a valid DCS relationship and
that the fourth party, which  Tesco  Bank referred to, acted as a payment processor on behalf
of S. Our investigator also said having considered  everything, he thought  it was most likely
Mr M was given  false statements about  modelling opportunities for his son. And as a result,
there had been  a breach  of contract. So, our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint and asked
Tesco Bank to:
refund  the £2,500 and rework the credit card account as if the payment hadnt  been 
made, including refunding the interest or charges  accrued in relation to the payment;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on any credit balance from the date that the credit 
balance arose  to the date of settlement.
Mr M agreed  with our investigators view, but Tesco  Bank didnt. They  remained of the
opinion that there wasnt  a valid DCS relationship. They also clarified that they did raise a
chargeback claim for Mr M, but when S disagreed, they asked Mr M for more information. As
they werent able to obtain the necessary  information from Mr M, they decided  a chargeback 
wouldnt be successful. As Tesco Bank  didnt agree with our investigators findings, the
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision setting out the below:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note Tesco  Bank attempted a
chargeback claim and also considered Mr Ms complaint under section 75. My provisional
decision will be mainly  focusing on the chargeback  claim as Im likely to uphold  on this part
of the complaint.
Chargeback
Mr M contacted Tesco Bank  in October  2018  and explained to them  that the goods and
services to be supplied  under  the contracts with S, for his son, hadnt been  provided.  As
Mr M paid for the goods and services  using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive thought
about whether  Tesco  Bank dealt with his request  fairly.
The chargeback process  is relevant in this case.  This is a way in which  payment settlement
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants.  They  are dealt with under the
Ref: DRN10839843relevant card scheme  rules. In certain  circumstances, the process provides a way for
Tesco Bank to ask for a payment Mr M made, to be refunded. One of those circumstances is
where the goods or services  arent  supplied or as described by the merchant Mr M paid.
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result  in a refund. First there  needs  to be a right to a
chargeback under the card scheme  rules. And any chargeback can be defended by the
merchant if they dont agree. If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer (in this case
Tesco Bank)  can make  a second presentment of the chargeback by providing further
supporting evidence. If it is still defended by the merchant, it can ask the card scheme
provider to decide whether a refund should  be given. This final part of the chargeback
process is called  arbitration.
There is no strict obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks
for one. But I would consider it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted  where the
right exists and there is reasonable  prospect of success.
Regarding second presentment and arbitration,  there is also no obligation for a card issuer
to take these further steps if the initial chargeback  is defended. But if the defence  from the
merchant was particularly  weak  and/or  the consumers evidence  was strong and there  was a
reasonable prospect of success, I would consider it good practice to pursue  the chargeback
further. So, Ive kept this in mind when thinking  about whats  fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this case.
I can see Tesco Bank raised the chargeback  initially under the reason code for goods and
services not as described and I think it was fair for them  to do this. The issue for me to
decide is whether  they acted fairly in choosing not to pursue the dispute any further  after S
defended the chargeback.
Once S were able to provide some information to Tesco Bank to defend the chargeback,
Tesco Bank say they were under  instruction from the card scheme to obtain further
information from Mr M. Despite several  attempts  to contact Mr M to clarify some  of the
information hed provided, they didnt receive  a response from him. Ultimately, Tesco  Bank
said no matter how strong  the chargeback was, that it wouldnt have been successful. So,
Tesco Bank declined  to pursue the chargeback further. But I dont think that was fair and Ill
explain why.
From Tesco Banks internal notes, I can see S challenged the chargeback  on
9 November 2018. Tesco Bank  then sent S comments to Mr M via letter on the same day
and asked for his response in relation to these.
Tesco Bank have  been able to provide  a copy of this letter and I can see it explains what
they require further clarification  on and how Mr M can respond to this request. It also asks
for Mr M to reply  by 23 November 2018  and that if he failed to do so, this could result in his
account being re-debited on or after 7 December 2018. Mr M replied to Tesco Bank via
email on 13 November 2018. I can see Mr M listed everything his son hadnt received under
the contract   this included no modelling  opportunities  as promised, no agent assigned  to his
son and only 17 photos on the CD-ROM instead of 100 (none of which  had been retouched).
In the same  email, Mr M explains he reported the matter to Action Fraud  as he considered
the actions of S to be fraudulent and offered to provide Tesco Bank  with his crime reference
number.
Tesco Bank say they then sent Mr M a further  letter on 23 November 2018  they havent
Ref: DRN10839844been able to provide a copy of this letter,  but they have provided a copy of their internal
notes. Tesco  Bank say the card scheme  provider  had asked Mr M to clarify what  products
his son was yet to receive.  And I can see from the internal note Tesco Bank  wanted  to clarify
if Mr M had received 100 photos on the CD-ROM, the digital Z-card and whether Mr Ms
sons online  profile  was in working order. The note also points out that the last day to
challenge the dispute was on 12 December 2018.
Tesco Bank attempted to contact Mr M between 23 November 2018 and 10 December 2018
 when a further letter  was sent to Mr M letting  him know that as they were  able to see
Mr Ms sons online profile was working, they were unable to argue that this element of the
contract wasnt provided. Also, upon  reviewing the information provided by S when they
defended the chargeback, they could see Mr M had signed a contract  to confirm he had
received all the images on the CD-ROM. And that he had checked  that it was in working
order. Therefore, it was for these reasons the chargeback  wasnt  pursued and Tesco Bank
said Mr Ms account was going to be re-debited.
Ive thought about the information  provided  by S in defence of the chargeback and also the
information Tesco Bank had from Mr M about the goods and services he hadnt received. Im
not persuaded S had shown Mr Ms son received all of the goods and services as described
under the contract. In effect, I cant see S addressed the contract that Mr M agreed to. I say
this because they only made reference to two things  the online profile  and the signed
contract which confirmed the CD-ROM with the photos included was in working order.
The chargeback reason  code was for goods or services not as described. And I think Mr M
responded to Tesco  Banks  letter of 9 November 2018 with enough detail about the goods
and services which werent as described in the contract. So, I think  it was unnecessary for
Tesco Bank to ask Mr M to clarify again what  was still missing under  the contract. I
appreciate Tesco Bank  said they checked  Mr Ms sons online profile and that it was still
working. So, it may be the case that Mr M may have received  some of the goods and
services that was promised under the contract. But I think  its clear from the package  cost
that there  were more  goods and services  to be provided  I find it unlikely Mr M would have
paid £7,500 for an online profile for his son and a CD-ROM with photos.
Mr M has provided us with a copy of an email from his wife to S that was sent around two
weeks after the contract was taken out. Mr Ms wife asks about a modelling  job her son was
told about and asked for details of the job as he was told hed receive the details 12-14 days
before. Mr Ms wife also refers to the lack of service provided by the aftercare team  Mr Ms
wife mentions contacting them twice about  the need  to change details on her sons online
profile, but this hadnt been  done.  To me, this is further evidence, in addition to Mr Ms
testimony, which suggests Mr M was led to believe these were services  which  would be
provided under the contract.
Mr M had also made it clear in his response to Tesco Bank  on 13 November 2018  that he
had reported this matter to Action  Fraud and offered to provide Tesco  Bank with a crime
reference number.  So, I think this is strong  indication Mr M may have been a victim of a
scam so I think this is another reason why it would  have been equally important for
Tesco Bank to pursue  the chargeback. I think this, coupled with Mr Ms testimony, was
sufficient to cast significant doubt on the defence S had put forward which was simply
information to show Mr M may have  received  two of the products agreed  to under the
contract.
Ref: DRN10839845Mr Ms description of what happened has been  detailed and consistent throughout his
dealings with Tesco Bank and our service.  And I think Mr M had already given strong
testimony that he may have been  a victim of a scam. In particular, Mr M told Tesco  Bank he
had reported the matter  to Action  Fraud and that he had returned the CD-ROM  to S which
was in line with the chargeback rules  he offered  to provide Tesco  Bank with proof of
postage for this. In addition to this, Mr M also told Tesco Bank  in one of his emails  that the
chargeback claims he made  with his two other banks had been  successful. Mr M says one of
the chargeback  claims wasnt defended at first presentment and the other was initially
defended  like in this case with Tesco Bank. However, when it was re-presented  the
chargeback was successful. So, on balance, I think this shows its more likely than not that
had Tesco Bank made  a second representment, it would have been likely to succeed.
I think based on the detailed account  Mr M gave as well as the other  supporting
documentation which  I believe strongly  supported his version  of events, I think  Tesco Bank
ought to have robustly pursued the chargeback.  Particularly  because  S hadnt provided
anything to demonstrate that they had provided all of the services  as described under the
contract. And I dont think Tesco Bank acted fairly  in not pursuing  the chargeback.
Its no longer possible  for Tesco Bank to submit the chargeback because of the time thats
passed. While I cant be certain what would have happened had the chargeback been
pursued, based on everything Ive seen,  I think its more  likely than not the chargeback
would have succeeded and Mr M would have  got his money back.  Ultimately,  I think Mr M
has lost the opportunity of having his money refunded. And as Ive said above,  I think  its
more likely than not the chargeback would have succeeded. So, Ive thought about what a
fair resolution should be.
As I think  the chargeback would more likely than not have succeeded had Tesco  Bank
pursued it further based on the information  Mr M had provided them with, I think Tesco  Bank
ought to now refund the £2,500 to Mr M. Tesco Bank should also pay 8% simple  interest  on
that refund from the day it stopped pursuing the chargeback claim to the date of settlement.
This is because Mr M has been deprived of the use of these monies.
Section 75
I note Tesco  Bank have made several  representations on the validity  of the section 75 claim
because they dont think there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship.  And
although Im intending to uphold on the chargeback aspect of this complaint, I thought  it
might be helpful to explain if I think Tesco Bank  could have done more  when considering
Mr Ms section  75 claim.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  says that in certain  circumstances the
credit card account holder has an equal  right to claim against the credit card provider if
there's either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
So, in Mr Ms case, section 75 of the CCA  makes  Tesco Bank  responsible for a breach of
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under certain conditions. One of those
conditions is that there  must be a direct  relationship  between the debtor (Mr M) the creditor
(Tesco Bank) and the supplier (S).
I note Tesco  Bank have said that there  was a fourth  party involved in the transaction   they
say Mr M paid for the contract  using  a prepaid card or a mobile  application as these  are the
services the fourth party offer. And that the payment was made to the fourth party and not
directly to S. Tesco Bank  say because the fourth  party werent a payment processor, there
wasnt the necessary  relationship here for a valid section  75 claim.
Ref: DRN10839846I can see from Mr Ms bank statement that the payment was made to the fourth party
Tesco Bank have  referred  to. So, I asked the fourth party for information about their
involvement in this transaction. They explained that Mr M registered to set up an account
with them  on the same day the contract  was taken  out. The fourth partys system generated
a customer registration  which  was sent to Mr Ms email address. Next, a verification call was
carried out with Mr M where his information  was confirmed and the transaction  then took
place. Mr M has told us he wasnt  introduced  to fourth party and that he paid S directly using
his Tesco  Bank  credit  card.
The fourth party say it could be possible S initiated the registration for Mr M, which  may
explain why Mr M doesnt  have any recollection of the fourth partys involvement. But the
fourth party have  provided  evidence to show a receipt of the payment was sent to Mr Ms
email address. They also say their payments  team is required to confirm  who the customer
is before  processing  any customer  information  or payments.
I appreciate everything  Mr M has told us. But in the absence of any documentary evidence
from Mr M, its arguable that the fourth partys evidence should be preferred. If what they say
is correct and the payment went through a payment account set up for Mr M, then I can see
why Tesco  Bank  have said there wasnt  the necessary relationship for a valid section 75
claim in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my findings. However, he said 
he still doesnt agree a fourth party was involved but that he was required to call head office 
to carry out the payment. 
Tesco Bank responded and they asked  if I agreed there wasnt the necessary debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement in place for a valid section 75 claim. Tesco also said they 
werent aware at the time of this claim, that Mr Ms chargeback  claims with his other banks 
had been successful. 
In addition to this, Tesco Bank  referred  to the chargeback rule which explains documentation 
from an expert or professional to support the cardholders  dispute may be required. Tesco  
Bank said Mr M didnt provide them with further  information following his email of 13 
November 2018.  And whilst Mr M may have told Tesco Bank  he felt hed been scammed, 
they said this alone  didnt  give them automatic chargeback rights.  Lastly, Tesco  Bank said 
they didnt think  they had enough to pursue the chargeback further based on the information 
they had.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I can understand, based on the information 
available to me, why Tesco Bank said there  wasnt the necessary relationship for a valid 
section 75 claim. I appreciate Mr M says he doesnt know  who the fourth  party was and its 
possible he was misled  in to who he was calling at the time.  However,  in the specific  
circumstances of this case,  it doesnt  look like the necessary arrangement was in place for a 
valid section 75 claim. 
Ref: DRN10839847In relation to Mr Ms chargeback claims with his other banks, I dont think its relevant that 
Tesco were unaware  these were successful.  I say this because there were other compelling 
reasons why I think Tesco Bank shouldve pursued Mr Ms chargeback as I set out in my 
provisional decision.  
Tesco Bank have  said the information  Mr M provided didnt meet the criteria required for a 
chargeback claim as he signed  a document to confirm he received the 100 photos  on a 
CD-ROM and he confirmed he received the online portfolio  for his son. However,  I disagree  
with Tesco  Banks  opinion that Mr M didnt meet the criteria. I say this because  Mr Ms email  
of 13 November 2018 provided  clear  detail of everything his son didnt receive under the 
contract  Mr M confirmed his son hadnt  received the modelling  jobs which were promised, 
no aftercare, no high-end portfolio, no agent  assigned to his son and a CD-ROM with only 17 
photos which hadnt been retouched, rather than the 100 that was promised. Mr M also 
mentions in this same  email that he had reported matters to Action  Fraud and refers Tesco 
Bank to information in the public domain about  S to support his dispute. 
I note the part of the chargeback rule Tesco Bank  referred to in response to my provisional  
decision says documentation from an expert or professional may be required  to support 
Mr Ms claim. And the rule provides examples of the types of additional documentary 
evidence Mr M could  provide. But it doesnt  say Mr M is required to provide this 
documentation. In addition to everything  Mr M told Tesco Bank he didnt receive under the 
contract, Mr M provided Tesco Bank  with additional information to support his dispute - hed 
told them  he reported  matters to Action  Fraud and also that he felt he may have been  a 
victim of a scam. So, with this in mind,  I think Tesco  Bank  ought  to have robustly pursued 
the chargeback  process as far as they could. I say this because  in addition  to the required 
information Mr M had already provided Tesco Bank with to progress his claim further, Tesco  
Bank were also aware Mr M felt he had been  scammed. 
Having thought about everything again,  I think Mr M already fulfilled the requirements under 
the chargeback  rules.  I dont think it was reasonable to continue pursuing Mr M for further 
information given  hed already provided  a comprehensive response about everything he 
hadnt received.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and I require Tesco  Personal Finance  
PLC T/A Tesco Bank to:
Refund Mr M the £2,500 he paid, adding 8% simple  interest  per year from the date
the chargeback  claim wasnt pursued further to the date of settlement*.
Rework Mr Ms account as if any charges hadnt  been applied account for any 
interest and charges   including when Tesco Bank re-debited  Mr Ms account  in 
January 2019.
*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC T/A Tesco Bank think theyre required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  they should tell Mr M how much theyve
taken off. They should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can
reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Ref: DRN10839848Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1083984