K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the amount Zenith Insurance plc charged him when his motor 
insurance policy was cancelled. He also complains that he didnt  receive his proof  of No 
Claims Discount (NCD) in the post.
background
Mr O had a motor insurance policy underwritten by Zenith.  In October 2018, Mr O changed 
his address on his policy  which attracted a higher premium. This was spread across his 
direct debit instalments.
In November 2018, Zenith was informed that Mr O had cancelled his direct debit, so it was 
unable to collect the premium. Zenith sent Mr O a letter  asking him to contact it to pay the 
balance. It also explained if it didnt hear from Mr O then it would cancel his policy. Mr O 
didnt contact Zenith, so it cancelled his policy in December 2018.  It explained  that as there  
was an open claim,  the full years premium  was due.
Mr O explained he had sold his car so didnt  need  the policy, so he had cancelled  it. He 
doesnt think he should owe the full premium. He also complained that Zenith  didnt send 
him his NCD in the post, as hed already  told it that he doesnt have internet access.  Zenith 
apologised for this and sent him the NCD in the post and also by email, as later requested  
by Mr O.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Os complaint.  She explained that the amount Zenith was 
asking Mr O to pay wasnt a cancellation charge, but instead was the premium  due for his 
policy. There was an open claim that Zenith had paid for and hadnt  been settled, so it was 
entitled to charge the full annual premium. Our adjudicator also explained that when Mr O 
asked for the NCD to be sent in a specific way, Zenith did this. And it apologised for not 
proactively sending the NCD  in the first place. So, she felt it had acted fairly and didnt need 
to do anything more.
Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can see that throughout this complaint Mr O refers  to the increase in premium after his 
change of address.  This specific complaint has already been  dealt with by this service,  so I 
wont comment on this. Having considered everything, Im satisfied there  are two complaint 
points which  I will cover below.
Cancellation charge
Mr O complains that Zenith are chasing  him for a large amount of money  over £600  for 
cancelling his policy. But this isnt a cancellation charge. When  Mr Os policy was cancelled, 
there was an open claim under his policy. This means that Zenith has paid out for a claim 
but not recovered its money yet. As such,  the full annual premium  becomes due for the 
insurance. Mr O opted to pay for his insurance in instalments, this doesnt mean he only has 
Ref: DRN14358462to pay a certain amount of his policy when  it was cancelled. Because it was cancelled with 
an open claim, Zenith is entitled to collect the entire  annual  premium. 
I understand that Mr O feels he cancelled  his policy because he sold his car, but he 
cancelled his direct  debit. I cant see he told Zenith he wanted  his policy  cancelled,  which  is 
why it cancelled the policy after direct debit payments were missed.  Either  way, as the policy  
was cancelled when  a claim was open,  the full premium is due. So, I cant say that Zenith 
shouldnt ask Mr O for this payment.
No Claims Discount
Mr O has said he didnt  receive his NCD after the policy was cancelled.  And that he had to 
request it to be sent to him. I can see that ordinarily  the NCD proof can be requested on the 
online portal. But Mr O had already explained  to Zenith that he didnt want correspondence  
online. Zenith said that it couldve  done  more here so sent the NCD in the post.  It also 
emailed it to Mr O when  he requested  it. As Zenith put this right as soon as Mr O brought  it 
to its attention, I think the impact this has had on Mr O has been minimal. Mr O explained 
that he had sold his car so I cant see hes lost out as a result of this delay in receiving his 
NCD. Zenith has apologised and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask it to do anything  
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1435846