K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr H complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW)  acted unfairly 
when appointing receivers. It wants the property  returned, a refund of all costs claimed due 
to the possession and to be allowed to sell the property itself.
background
Mr H had a property under an interest only buy to let mortgage with TMW,  taken out through  
a broker. His estate  believed that TMW didnt follow the proper  procedure  when 
repossessing it. It said that when  TMW was told of Mr Hs death, it was asked to continue 
paying the mortgage, but not told the monthly  amount (as there was no grant  of probate  in 
place). The estate  tried to sell the property but receivers were appointed in December 2018; 
the estate said that TMW shouldve  contacted the executors before appointing receivers  and 
written to the property  address, not to the correspondence  address for a deceased 
customer.
The estate  of Mr H complained to TMW. It said that it received the grant of probate in 
January 2019,  though it was granted in September 2018. It noted that the mortgage was a 
buy to let one, which  meant it was a commercial loan. TMW  said that the executors had 
been told to pay the mortgage  in July and October 2018, but one executor had said that they 
couldnt afford to do so and no payments were received since  June 2018. TMW pointed  out 
that in July 2018, it had told the executors that it needed to see the grant of probate  to deal 
with them,  and its absence was why it wrote to the correspondence address about the 
arrears. It refused to remove  the receivers unless repaid in full, but said it would review  if the 
estate had a buyer willing  to proceed.
The estate  of Mr H complained to us. TMW said that until it received a copy of the grant of 
probate, its policy was to write to the last known address of the borrower as it didnt  know  
who was legally authorised to deal with the estate.  The property was sold while this service 
investigated. The estate  pointed out that solicitors contacted TMW in August 2018 and got a 
redemption statement; TMW said as the solicitors were on its panel, it could share that 
information but the solicitors werent instructed to deal with the arrears.  The estate said that 
it sent a copy of the grant of probate  in September, but had no evidence  and TMW  
confirmed that it didnt receive it until January  2019.
The investigators view was that TMW knew of the involvement of the executors  early on, as 
well as the solicitors, and that it was fair and reasonable to expect it to have contacted the 
solicitors for an update  before  appointing  receivers. The investigator thought that it was more 
likely than not that the executor sent the grant of probate  in September  as she knew that it 
was important, but it didnt reach TMW or was lost somehow. She said the executor had 
taken sufficient steps and told TMW about  the plan to sell the property,  so TMW  shouldve  
done more to contact her, especially as post was returned from the correspondence address 
used. The investigator  said that it was unfair and unreasonable  to appoint receivers  in the 
circumstances and the costs and fees of the receivers should be refunded with interest.
Ref: DRN17115732TMW disagreed. It said that the mortgage  was a commercial loan and allowed the 
appointment of receivers when  there were arrears.  TMW  said until it received the grant of 
probate, there was no evidence that the executor was legally able to deal with the property,  
though she was asked to keep in contact. It noted that the property  was sold for more than 
the estate expected and that it repeated its request for the grant of probate  after the executor 
said shed sent it. TMW  said that the executor didnt respond or update it, which  was why the 
receivers were  appointed. It also pointed out that if the estate had sold the property as it 
planned, it wouldve  incurred selling costs so those costs shouldnt be refunded.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The core of this complaint is about whether TMW gave the estate fair and reasonable 
warning of its intention  to appoint receivers. A business is able to use its commercial 
judgement and apply its policies, but it must do so in a fair and reasonable way. And my role 
isnt to punish the business, but to ensure that the complainant is put in the position that they 
shouldve been  in if the mistake wasnt made.
Did TMW make a mistake? Until a grant of probate is received, its correct  that the identity of 
who can lawfully deal with an estate  isnt known. While the executor says the grant  of 
probate was sent to TMW in September,  it wasnt received and that isnt TMWs fault. And 
TMW chased the grant of probate more than once, including in October, by contacting the 
executor direct, and it wasnt received until January 2019.
TMW made  it clear more than once  to the executor  that she had to keep it updated. This 
didnt happen.  I understand  that the executor thought her solicitor would do so, but this didnt 
happen and this isnt TMWs  fault.  TMW did repeatedly tell the estate that the mortgage  had 
to be paid, and the executor said she couldnt afford to do so. This is relevant as regardless 
as to whether  the estate was warned about the appointment of the receivers, any such  
failure made  no difference  the estate couldnt  pay the mortgage, there was no imminent  
sale, and so its likely that the receivers wouldve been appointed anyway.
But I dont think TMW acted fairly in its dealings with the executor. It knew  her address and 
wrote to her, but failed to warn her about the consequences of not paying  the mortgage.  The 
executor wasnt a person used to dealing  with commercial property and she wasnt told 
about how differently  such properties  are treated, compared to residential properties. 
TMWs policy says it should write to the last known correspondence address of the 
customer, but the customer  in this case, Mr H, was deceased. TMW knew this. Post sent to 
the correspondence address was returned so TMW knew it wasnt received. It knew the 
executors address, and despite  the lack of a grant  of probate  or update,  it couldve  warned  
her about  the consequences of non-payment when  it asked her to pay the monthly payment; 
it didnt. And TMW gave information to a solicitor without having received  a grant of probate, 
but chose not to contact it to ask for an update or warn about the appointment of receivers.
TMW in my view didnt  apply its policy fairly  or reasonably to reflect the reality of the 
situation. The policy allows contact with a solicitor. And while  the grant  of probate was 
outstanding, TMW couldve given the executor more information, even of a general warning 
nature, when it gave  her limited information about the account and suggested she paid the 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN17115733But I cant award compensation  for the distress caused to the estate for this failing as it 
wasnt the customer, though I can give compensation  for inconvenience. And when I 
consider what wouldve  happened if the estate had been given a warning about the potential 
for a receiver, I dont think anything wouldve changed  the estate and the executor wasnt  
in a position to pay the mortgage and the various attempts to sell the property fell through.
And if Im wrong about that, TMW is right to point  out that whether the estate  or the receiver 
sold the property,  the standard  selling  costs wouldve been due in any event. The only 
difference between  the two situations is the receivers fees, and Ive explained why I think 
the receiver wouldve  been appointed  anyway. The receivers  managed  to sell the property  
for more than the estate planned, so theres no evidence of financial loss either.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  the estate of Mr H said it was very disappointed. The 
executor said that she didnt remember  TMW  telling her that the mortgage  had to be paid 
and she wouldve paid the mortgage  by borrowing  from friends  if necessary.  I appreciate  the 
executors view, but having looked  at the evidence,  I can see she was sent letters  telling her 
that the mortgage had to be paid. And theres a contemporaneous telephone note (on which 
I can place weight as it was written at the time before the complaint  was raised)  confirming 
that the executor was told by TMW that the mortgage should be paid; she said she couldnt 
afford it. And the suggestion of borrowing  from friends shows  the estate couldnt afford to 
pay the mortgage.
Nationwide didnt make  any comments about my provisional decision.
Having considered what the estate  had to say, and reviewed the evidence, I remain  of the 
view set out in my provisional  decision. I think its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1711573