K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt help him get back  some money he said he 
shouldnt have been charged.
background
Mr S got some work done on his house.  He paid some money upfront, on his credit card. 
When the work was done, he said that his card was just charged  again by that company, for 
the remainder.  Mr S was very unhappy about that. 
Mr S told us that he was in dispute with the company which did the work. Hed paid some 
money for the workmens  parking  while  they were at the property, so he didnt think  he owed 
the full amount that he had later been charged. And he said he wasnt  expecting  just to be 
charged. He was expecting that he would get an invoice and a guarantee once the work was 
completed. That would also give him a chance to test the installation.  And he was going to 
then pay on a different  card.
Mr S wanted  Santander to get his money back for him. He said that he hadnt given the 
company permission to keep his credit card details,  and he certainly  hadnt  given  the details 
again. He thought the company must  just have kept hold of those  original details without 
saying anything. He wanted Santander to do something about that.
Santander said it had considered whether it could raise this claim as a chargeback, but it 
didnt think it could.  It said the card scheme  providers rules  wouldnt let it do that. It told Mr S 
that he needed to ring the company first to try to resolve the dispute,  and then it could raise  
this as a formal dispute for him. But Santander  said that Mr S wasnt willing to try ringing the 
company during the day, and hed already sent several emails. 
Santander wrote to Mr S on 1 December, and said that it was sorry that hed had to pay for 
parking costs when  works were done at his property. But it said that this was a private  
dispute between  Mr S and the company, and one in which Santander wouldnt become 
involved. 
Mr S rang Santander, and wrote to it, trying  to get it to refund this money. He said then that 
this transaction  wasnt authorised by him. It appears  as if Santander then thought  about  
whether it could treat this as a notification of fraud. It seems to have taken some steps 
towards doing so, but Santander later said it didnt think it shouldve  done that, and that this 
was probably a mistake. Santander  said that it had told Mr S that it had logged  this 
incorrectly. It wasnt fraud.
Santander spoke  to Mr S on 19 January 2018. He told it he hadnt had any response to his 
letter of 9 December  2017, he didnt know his claim had been declined, and Santander 
hadnt refunded  the money.  
Santander said that it wrote to Mr S on 19 February 2018  advising  a dispute was raised  on 
17 December 2017 following  his letter dated 9 December 2017. It had sent a disclaimer to 
Mr S on 14 December 2017 requesting a detailed explanation of the reasons for his claim. 
Mr S provided this on 18 December 2017  and it was passed to the fraud team  at Santander. 
They said that Mr S needed  to contact the merchant  initially.  And that team also said that it 
wasnt a fraud issue, so Santander was correct in declining the claim. Santander said that 
unfortunately it hadnt been able to find notes from that team  about  this. 
Ref: DRN16667252Santander said that it appreciated that in Mr Ss letter  of 9 December, he said that he wanted  
this issue raised as a complaint if Santander couldnt get the money back for him. Santander  
hadnt done that at that time. So, although Santander said it thought it was right not to pay 
Mr S back  the £179.62 hed been charged, it thought that it had provided him with poor 
service, because it hadnt moved  to consider his complaint straight  away. It had already paid 
him £75 on 19 February 2018. But it now wanted  to pay him £75 more,  because of that poor 
service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Santander had decided not to 
attempt a chargeback because of the card scheme  providers rules.  And it didnt think the 
transaction was fraudulent. 
Our investigator said that it was reasonable for Santander to ask Mr S to try to resolve this 
dispute with the merchant  first, before it sought  to register any chargeback  or take other 
action. She noted  that the company had set out for Mr S, before he made the first payment, 
how much  the first and second payments would be for, and when the second payment would 
be due. She also said that if the company had held onto Mr Ss credit card details, that 
wouldnt be Santanders fault. 
Our investigator said that if Santander  had pursued  a chargeback for Mr S, it wouldve  been 
likely to be declined. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong by not refunding him for 
this transaction.  
Mr S didnt agree with that. He wanted  his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman,  so 
it was passed  to me for a final decision.  He has since sent our service some  further  emails  
between him and the company that he was in dispute with.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Mr S initially said to Santander that he wanted  to dispute £1.30 of this transaction.  He 
later said he also didnt want to pay the invoice at this time, and he may have wanted to 
use a different card. Mr S says the company unlawfully retained his credit card details. 
-It looked to me as if Mr S was aware, when he received an invoice and paid the first 
instalment, of how much  the second  instalment would be. Mr S said that he had agreed  
with the company that he wouldnt pay any travel costs. An email that the company sent 
to him says that he wont be charged  any mileage costs, but that didnt refer to parking, 
so it wasnt clear  that Mr S had reached an agreement that covered any and all charges 
related to travel and parking,  with the company. I understood that this companys usual 
terms do say that delivery charges and other expenses can be added  to the final invoice. 
And Mr S said that he was sent a document which  explained that he would need to pay 
for any parking  charges when the workmen arrived. 
-When I look at a case, I need  to make sure that the case has reached a fair and 
reasonable outcome. And I thought,  on balance, that it was more  likely than not in this 
case that Mr S did owe the company the amount that he disputed, including the £1.30 
that he told us he paid for a parking voucher that he then gave to the workmen. So, 
although I appreciated that Mr S felt very strongly  that he didnt authorise this transaction  
Ref: DRN16667253on this particular card, I did think that it was more likely that not that the money Mr S paid 
to the company was money  that he owed them. And I thought,  having  considered  the 
terms and conditions that seem to apply to the transaction between  the company and 
Mr S, that it was more  likely than not that this payment was taken  at around the time that 
it was due.
-Mr S said that the company retained his credit card details without his permission, and 
then took a payment without his agreement. But I also needed to bear in mind  that this 
complaint isnt about what the company did. Santander isnt responsible  for that. This 
complaint is about how Santander  reacted to what Mr S told it after the event. 
-So this complaint, as I understood it, centred on whether Santander shouldve intervened 
to try to get this money back  for Mr S. Because I think that it was more likely than not 
that Mr S did owe the company this money  at this time, I didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to tell Santander to try to get this money back, even if, as Mr S said, 
he hadnt authorised the company to take this amount from his card at that specific  time.
-I could see though that there had been  some confusion over the handling of this 
complaint with Santander. Santander said it didnt  tell Mr S promptly  what it had decided 
to do about this transaction. Santander  had already paid Mr S £75 in compensation for 
this. It offered to pay him a further  £75, because of this confusion,  to take that total 
compensation payment up to £150. I couldnt  see that this offer was ever passed  on to 
Mr S, so my decision was provisional,  to give him a chance to respond to this. 
-I also said that I thought a total payment of £150 would provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this case, so thats  what I proposed to award. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander said it was still happy to increase its total compensation payment to £150. Mr S 
wrote to object to my proposed decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr S wrote to say that he thought that my provisional decision was wrong both in law and in 
terms of natural justice and that it would create an incredibly  damaging  precedent - that all 
credit card payments can be considered authorisations  for recurring  transactions. He said I 
hadnt addressed  his concern that my decision would mean any rogue trader  could keep  a 
customers credit card details, and debit amounts of their choice without the knowledge or 
permission of the customer. He said that would be both worrying and wrong.
Mr S said that the outcome of his overall  transaction with this company should not be up for 
debate. He said that just wasnt a matter for our service. He hadnt sent us any evidence 
about that, and he didnt  think he should  have to. He said this dispute was with Santander, 
and he should  only have to show that Santander  didnt have any right to take money from 
him for the second credit  card payment to the company. And he thought hed shown that.
Mr S set out a number  of provisions in the terms and conditions  of his card which  he said 
were relevant, covering the definition of a transaction, and how a transaction is authorised. 
Ref: DRN16667254Mr S then wrote again, and drew our attention to another  extract from the terms and 
conditions of this account, which he said requires Santander to refund any transactions it 
finds that he hadnt authorised. He said that Santander didnt find that hed authorised the 
transaction. It found that he owed the company money, which is not the same  thing. And it 
didnt refund the money. Mr S said that Santander was clearly in breach of contract. 
Id like to set out a little of how Ive approached this case, before addressing Mr Ss points. 
The first point I wanted to make is that our service doesnt operate on the basis  of binding  
precedent. Im looking at this case on its own merits, and the decision I make  here wont  
oblige other ombudsmen  to decide the same. 
And the second  point is about the basis on which I make a decision. 
Mr S says that he thinks Santander  is in breach of contract. But it isnt the role of our service 
to enforce Mr Ss contract with Santander. I must take the relevant law into account,  but my 
obligation is to reach  a decision  thats fair and reasonable in this case. Our rules say The 
ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference  to what is, in his opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  
Thats why our service has asked Mr S about his relationship with the company which did 
work for him. Its because looking at the obligations on Santander, and the contract  between  
it and Mr S, could only ever be part of the story  here.  If Santander had breached those 
obligations, then I would  need to understand what happened to Mr S as a result of that  i.e. 
the impact, and whether  it was fair. 
Weve talked to the company involved,  and to Santander. The information  Ive seen seems 
to suggest that Mr S owed this money, and had already agreed to pay it (although Mr S has 
been clear that he had not agreed  to pay in this way).  And Ive listened to the calls where 
Mr S first objected to this transaction, including the earlier call where he said that hed been  
overcharged by £1.30, the amount that he had paid for the companys parking on the day. 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence on how this transaction  has affected him, and says he 
shouldnt have to. 
Taking all of this into account,  Ive not been  able to establish that Mr S is significantly worse 
off because of how this payment was taken. So Ive looked  at what Santander has offered to 
do, in the light of that. Santander says its already paid Mr S £75, and it would now like to 
pay a further £75. That seems to me to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, on the basis of the information Ive seen. 
Mr S says that if I decide  that, Im giving rogue traders a green light to keep hold of credit 
card details, and then to charge what they like, when they like. But the reality  is Im looking  
at the issue of what Santander  did, not what the company did. And, more importantly, as far 
as Ive been able to tell on the evidence I do have,  the hypothetical future situation that Mr S 
is describing here isnt what happened in this case.  So thats not what I think  the outcome is, 
for this case. 
And, as Ive explained,  nothing that Im deciding in this case  would oblige another  
ombudsman to say the same, in a future  case.  
Ref: DRN16667255my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint Santander UK Plc should pay Mr S £150  in 
total. Santander UK Plc can count towards that amount any compensation it has already 
paid Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1666725