K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
It is not clear  when Mr B bought the PPI policy. Lloyds says his credit card account  was 
opened in 1995 and that it thought hed applied for PPI at the same time. Mr B says the 
cover was sold by post in January 2000. 
Mr Bs employment status is also unclear. I can see that in the PPI questionnaire, he said he 
was a self-employed plant operator.  But he also said he would have been entitled to a 
redundancy payment, death  in service benefit  and more  than 12 months sick pay from work. 
We would  not usually expect to see such benefits derived from self-employment. I can see 
that our adjudicator  asked questions around Mr Bs employment status before issuing a 
view. No response was received. Moreover, despite  their voluminous submissions in 
response to our adjudicators view, it is most unfortunate that those representing  Mr B did 
not engage with the further information  request. When the matter was passed to me, I asked 
our adjudicator to repeat  those  enquiries.  It is again  unfortunate  that neither Mr B nor those 
representing him responded to those  further information requests. On that basis,  I have 
considered both possibilities as to Mr Bs employment status in this decision. 
The evidence before me does not suggest that Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions 
when the cover was sold to him.  
The policy provided  cover  for life, sickness, injury and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Bs credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost between 59p and 79p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2007
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN16250032The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally and as I said above, it has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
The first thing I need to determine is when this cover  came to be sold. It appears  to me that 
Mr B believes PPI to have been  sold in 2000 because that is the first statement Lloyds had 
showing the policy. Due to the passage of time,  Lloyds could not provide any earlier 
statements. It would be a huge coincidence if PPI had started exactly  from the period of the 
first statement  Lloyds  could provide. Looking at the electronic evidence  thats  available from 
the time,  I agree with Lloyds  that the card was opened in 1995 and so I think its most likely 
PPI was sold at the same  time as Mr B applied for the credit  card.  
I have also treated this as a face to face branch sale because ultimately, that puts more 
responsibility on Lloyds  to make sure the cover  was suitable for Mr B. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
Ref: DRN16250033complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN16250034-Whether Lloyds gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
There is very little documentary evidence available from the point of sale, which  isnt 
surprising given the PPI was sold over 25 years ago. Mr B says the cover was included  as 
part of a package  alongside the credit card, but it is not clear if his recollection  about the sale 
is accurate, given I cant say he can reliably  recall when it took place.  
I have been given a sample application form from the relevant time. I can see that in order  
for PPI to be added  to the credit  card account, Mr B had to indicate his agreement by 
marking a box. So if the cover  was sold face to face as I have set out above,  I think it is most 
likely that the person  selling the cover  would have sought agreement from Mr B to add the 
cover to his account.  If that permission was not obtained, I think Mr B would have queried 
what the premiums were for when he received his monthly statements. The evidence  doesnt 
suggest he did. 
If I am wrong and Mr B did apply for the card by post, then he would have  been  able to 
complete the application form in his own time and at his own pace. In doing  so, I think he 
would have appreciated that if he didnt want cover, he could have just left the PPI part of the 
form blank. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ive treated this as an advised sale during a face to face meeting between the parties. As I 
said above, doing so puts greater responsibility  on Lloyds because it means it had to advise 
Mr B with reasonable  care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or 
suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN16250035I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser likely had some 
limited information about  Mr Bs financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr B would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr B had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
his. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-If Mr B was self-employed,  I dont think he would have been  entitled to the benefits 
hes told us about and I havent been given any information about any savings  or 
other means he may have had if he was unable  to work  because of illness or if his 
work stopped.  So I think he had a need for the policy  because  his ability to continue 
to meet  his credit card repayments would have been put under strain if he was not 
working for an extended period  of time.   
-If Mr B was employed, I do not consider it likely  that he had at least 12 months full 
pay. Such an arrangement would have been  highly unusual and no further evidence 
has been provided to support such a generous sick pay entitlement despite several 
requests for clarity on that very point. On balance,  I think Mr B probably had some 
sick pay and some redundancy  entitlement if he was an employee. But I think  its 
most likely that the PPI would have lasted for longer than any such  entitlement. If Mr 
B had death  in service benefit,  it would  have only paid out in the unfortunate event of 
Mr Bs death - not if he was off sick or if he lost his job. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. If he was 
self-employed, it wasnt particularly more  difficult for a self-employed  person to make 
a PPI claim under this policy than it would have been for an employee.  There  was 
nothing further  I could see about Mr Bs employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for him to claim. Those  representing  Mr B said he worked in a high 
risk occupation, but I cant see anything in the terms and conditions that would have 
stopped a plant operator from being  able to make a claim.  And he hasnt told us 
about any pre-existing medical  conditions that could  affect his ability  to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for sickness, injury or unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr Bs 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding  card 
balance.
Ref: DRN16250036Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending and make an informed  decision  about whether to follow that advice and take 
out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr B would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
I am also satisfied Mr B would have  realised the policy  wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr B 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr 
B might have been given, I think its more likely than not that he based  his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr B. Im not persuaded  that Lloyds gave Mr B all of the information  
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
Ref: DRN16250037not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr B, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr B would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr B says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form and I think its likely the adviser would  have stated this. 
But, I accept that Lloyds probably  didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So while 
Mr B didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was 
not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have  thought from the information he based his 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Ref: DRN16250038Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability caused  or contributed  to by a 
condition for which  Mr B consulted or received treatment from a doctor in the 12-
month period  prior to the commencement  of the insurance;  
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr B be unable  to 
follow his normal occupation. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. And as I said above, I dont consider 
it was more difficult for Mr B to make a claim if he was self-employed than if he was an 
employee. Overall, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr B might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking out the policy,  Mr B in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
To make a disability claim, Mr B needed  to be totally unable to follow  his normal occupation.   
I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.  
So it seems  unlikely he would have thought he could make a successful claim if he was still 
working. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding any employment benefits he may have had. And in those  
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Ref: DRN16250039Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN162500310circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1625003