K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the service  they received from U K Insurance Limited following 
a claim on their travel insurance  policy.  Their  son, Mr L1, is helping them to bring their 
complaint. 
background
Mr and Mrs L were  sold a travel insurance  policy by their bank.  On 29 July 2018, Mrs L 
suffered a double pulmonary embolism whilst on holiday and received treatment in a hospital 
abroad. On 2 August  2018, Mrs L was discharged from hospital  and on 6 August 2018, 
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L1  who had travelled to assist them  returned home by train and 
taxi. 
Mr and Mrs L first made the claim at the end of July 2018. UKI made a settlement payment 
in early December 2018  but the amount was incorrect. It paid an additional and final amount 
in late December 2018
In response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaints, UKI sent them compensation amounting to £400 
in relation to its poor service.  
Mr and Mrs L say that the UKI had poor procedures, inadequately trained staff and a culture,  
practices and attitudes that caused them uncertainty, confusion,  distraction  and delay at an 
already stressful  time.  Mr and Mrs L would  welcome a move  towards  a much more customer 
friendly process and improved performance. They want compensation of £2,000 for stress, 
worry, extra effort and time spent understanding, clarifying and expediting UKI. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He explained that we cant fine or 
punish a business or direct it to change  its processes. The investigator thought that the 
compensation UKI had already offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator and, amongst other  issues; 
asked how compensation is assessed;
told us that they hadnt cashed the cheques for compensation;
queried why some  elements were included in the investigators assessment;
said that important  information about  health issues  should  be in writing;
outlined the cumbersome  nature  of the on-line system;
reiterated that they had to check the initial  settlement amount and hadnt received a 
breakdown of the settlement;
presumed that the investigator referred  to financial stress and worry, rather  than the 
effect of the stress  and worry on them personally.  
There were further exchanges  between Mr and Mrs L and the investigator,  which I wont  set 
out here. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13580032Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs L have very strong feelings about  this 
matter. They  have  provided detailed submissions to support the complaint,  which  Ive read 
and considered. I have  summarised events in rather less detail that theyve been presented. 
No discourtesy is intended by that. I focus on what I think  is material  to the outcome of the 
complaint. Im also conscious  that Ive condensed what  I dont doubt  was a very worrying 
time into a short  narrative. My approach reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to 
be informal. 
As our investigator has explained, we cant direct a business to change  its processes. My 
role is to decide if UKI acted fairly in the individual circumstances of this case. So, I have to 
decide whether  the compensation of £400  UKI has already  offered  is fair.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  says that UKI should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. Its common  ground that there  were  a number of shortcomings  in the service 
Mr and Mrs L received from UKI. UKI accepts that there was delay and confusion  in its 
handling of the claim;  it didnt explain at the outset what  documentation it required or its 
process; the breakdown of its settlement was inadequate; the initial settlement was incorrect 
and some of its e-mails  should have been phrased  differently.  
I think that compensation of £400 fairly reflects Mr and Mrs Ls distress and inconvenience  in 
relation to UKIs errors  and poor service. I say that because whilst some  inconvenience is 
inherent in claims of this nature, Mr and Mrs L had to do a lot of work to make  the claim.  This 
included using an unfamiliar  on-line system  without  instructions, chasing UKI and checking 
the settlement  amount.  I agree that they shouldnt have had to do this. The claims process 
wasnt coherent, which meant that it wasnt clear to Mr and Mrs L what was happening. 
Some elements of the claim  took longer than was reasonable.  Fortunately, the trouble 
Mr and Mrs L were  put to didnt delay  Mrs Ls treatment.  I think that compensation of £400 
reflects the trouble they were caused  by the poor service they received.
Mr and Mrs L seek compensation of £2,000. Thats considerably more  than I think is fair 
here. When we look at compensation for distress and inconvenience, we look at the impact 
of the business  errors  on the individuals. An award  for distress  and inconvenience isnt 
intended to fine or punish a business; its in recognition of the emotional and practical impact 
of whats happened. Considering everything, I think that compensation of £400 is fair. 
If the cheques  UKI previously sent to Mr and Mrs L are now out of date, they should  return  
them to UKI so that it can issue replacement cheques. 
Ref: DRN13580033my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs L but I dont uphold their complaint as the compensation 
of £400 previously offered by U K Insurance Limited  is fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358003