K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs C complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 1996 Mr P and Mrs C (who was then Mrs P) took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The 
policy covered Mr P only for accident,  sickness and unemployment and would have provided 
a monthly benefit  of £400. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr P and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr P and Mrs Cs case.   
Where the evidence is incomplete,  disputed or contradictory  as some  of it is here  I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities, that is, what  I consider most likely to have 
happened given  the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The PPI was sold to Mr P and Mrs C during a meeting with NBS,  when they were  applying 
for a mortgage. Mr P and Mrs C say they werent told they didnt have to have the PPI. They 
also say that they didnt  need the PPI as Mr P had good employment benefits and they had 
some savings. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr P and Mrs C and NBS when they 
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. 
Ive seen Mr P and Mrs Cs mortgage application.  That does say PPI is an important way of 
protecting their mortgage payments if they cant work  but it doesnt say they have to have 
it. The mortgage offer doesnt say PPI is part of the offer. It does talk about property 
insurance which was compulsory, and I think it would likely have talked about  PPI in the 
same way if Mr P and Mrs C had to have  it.  I can see Mr P signed an application form a few 
days after getting the mortgage  offer. I think,  taken together, these things suggest it was 
clear they didnt have  to have it. 
Mr P has pointed  out that he and Mrs C got a letter around this time saying they needed to 
complete insurance  paperwork  if they didnt want their mortgage to be delayed. He says it 
wasnt clear which insurance  this refers to as both property insurance and PPI are 
mentioned. Ive looked carefully at this letter. I agree  it mentions both types of insurance.  But 
it also provides prices and benefits for several options for each type of insurance  and it asks 
Mr P and Mrs C complete the options form to progress matters.  
It doesnt say the PPI is compulsory. I havent seen  the options  form, but it seems  to me 
that must  have invited  Mr P and Mrs C to complete an application for the PPI  as that was 
Ref: DRN12198182done some  time later. And I think Mr P and Mrs C must have been deciding  if the PPI was 
suitable for them as only Mr P was insured.
I think, on balance,  that NBS did enough to show the PPI was optional.  
NBS says that it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr P and Mrs C. So it didnt have to check it 
was suitable for them  given their particular circumstances. I appreciate Mr P and Mrs C had 
a share  save account through  Mr Ps job, but I can also see they sold shares only a month  or 
so after taking out the PPI and mortgage. That suggests theyd  already  had plans for this 
money when they got the mortgage. So Im not persuaded it was available  to cover  any 
shortfall in income  if Mr P couldnt work. I cant take later balances into account, as its only 
savings held at the time that could  be part of any decisions  Mr P and Mrs C made. 
I can also see that Mr P and Mrs C chose only to cover Mr P. That suggests they were 
considering what  level of cover suited  them  and had sufficient  information  from NBS to do 
that. And theyd had the cost and benefit  before they completed the PPI application,  so they 
could take that into account too.
I think NBS gave Mr P and Mrs C enough information for them to make  an informed choice.
Its possible that some of the information  the society gave  Mr P and Mrs C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But, on balance, I think  they chose to take out the 
policy and so appear to have  wanted  this type of cover. I think  it unlikely Mr P and Mrs C 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall,  
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P and Mrs C 
to let me know whether they accept or reject  my decision before  30 August 2019. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1219818