K822xComplaint
Mrs A complains about the service she received from Metro Bank Plc when she wanted  to 
open an account with a linked safety  deposit  box. Mrs As husband brings the complaint  on 
her behalf  as they feel the bank discriminated against her when it refused her account 
application.
Background
 
Mrs A and her husband went  to a Metro Bank branch in November  2017  as they wanted to 
use the banks  safety deposit service. They were told they needed  to have an account with 
Metro Bank  to do this and they looked to set this up in Mrs As name. But the account 
application was refused.  Mrs A and her husband felt that theyd been rudely treated and 
complained. They felt Mrs A had been  discriminated against.
Metro Bank  said that Mrs A hadnt  been  able to communicate with the branch staff 
sufficiently. It said Mrs As husband had answered questions  on her behalf,  that he had been 
rude and it didnt feel it could continue with Mrs As application. Metro  Bank  said its terms 
and conditions said that it could refuse to open an account for an existing or potential  
customer. It also said it would only correspond and communicate with its customers in 
English.
Our adjudicators opinion
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
thought Metro Bank had acted unfairly and shouldve done  more to assist  Mrs A. She said it 
should pay Mrs A £100 because  of the distress  and inconvenience she was caused.
Metro Bank  didnt accept  the adjudicators findings  and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. It said it was clear that it had declined to open an account  for Mrs A because she 
doesnt speak  English  and this is in line with its terms and conditions. It said it was outside of 
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service to comment  on who it declines to open 
accounts for, or to judge whether it acted  lawfully or not. It said that it doesnt offer accounts 
to non-English  speaking customers because it believes  it would  be putting both the customer 
and the bank at an unreasonable level of risk if they are unable to understand or 
appropriately communicate with them. It said our role wasnt to punish a business or to look 
at how it chooses  to operate.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2019. In summary, I said I 
thought it should be upheld, but Metro Bank should be required to pay Mrs A a higher  level 
of compensation.
I said that my role was to decide  whether Metro Bank had acted fairly towards Mrs A, not to 
say whether Metro  Bank acted unlawfully as thats  a matter for the courts. However,  I said 
that I am required to take into account relevant law and what I consider  to be good  industry  
practice when deciding what is fair and reasonable. And this includes the Equality  Act 2010.
I said that Mrs A and her husband wanted  to use the banks safety deposit service and 
visited the branch  for this. But they were told they had to have a linked account to use it and 
so wanted to apply for this in Mrs As name.
Ref: DRN13267602Metro Bank  said that during the process of trying to obtain information from Mrs A for the 
application, the staff didnt  feel that she could communicate sufficiently in English. It said 
Mrs As husband had answered  questions on her behalf, when it needed Mrs A to provide 
her own information. The branch staff then wrongly  suggested that the application had been 
declined because of Mrs As address, when the processing of it hadnt  actually  reached  that 
stage. So the decision to decline her application was based on the assessment of the branch 
staff that day - taking  into account Mrs As limited  direct  responses, rather than it being  a 
system or credit check based decision.
Metro Bank  said that its terms  and conditions make it clear that it will only communicate  in 
English. These terms and conditions would have applied for Mrs A if Metro  Bank  had opened 
an account for her, which it didnt.
Metro Bank  said it was reasonable to ask for information of a customer  so it can make  sure it 
knows who its dealing with and properly assess providing banking  services to a new 
customer. And here it wasnt  satisfied that Mrs A was able to sufficiently understand these  
terms or correspond in English. So it said the decision was a business one intended to meet 
its account opening obligations.
I said that The Equality  Act says that people with "protected characteristics" mustnt  be 
discriminated against. The "protected characteristics" include "race" which includes a group 
of people defined  by their race, colour and nationality (including  citizenship) ethnic  or 
national origins.  The Equality Act defines "direct discrimination"  and "indirect discrimination" 
and goes on to say what each are.
I said that, had Mrs A brought a claim of discrimination against Metro  Bank,  I thought it was 
unlikely that a Court would decide  that it had directly discriminated  against her. But I thought  
it was likely that a Court  would decide that a requirement that a customer  has to speak 
English was likely to lead some  customers from particular  ethnic backgrounds,  nationalities 
or races to be treated inconsistently or differently from others based on a subjective 
assessment of that customers  English  speaking  ability. So I thought it was likely that a Court  
would decide  that this was indirect  discrimination unless Metro  Bank  could show that it was a 
proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim.
Metro Bank  said the reason it doesnt  offer accounts  to non-English speaking customers is 
because it believes this would be putting  the customer and the bank at an unreasonable 
level of risk. It said it could arrange  for its terms and conditions to be translated into other  
languages to ensure that non-English speaking customers understand the agreement but it 
couldnt guarantee that it would be able to speak to the customer  in their own language,  
should it need to call them. It said that a customer not understanding  a call, for example, 
where a potential fraud is suspected, or when a payment  could be returned as unpaid  could 
mean adverse consequences for that customer.
Ref: DRN13267603I said that a Court may decide  that this could be a legitimate  aim, but the means have to be 
proportionate. I thought  it was unlikely a Court  would say preventing customers who cant 
speak English or fluent English from opening an account is proportionate. Instead I said I 
thought it was likely a Court would say offering a basic account or an account with 
assistance is a proportionate response to the risk of fraud or a transaction  not going through 
rather than precluding Mrs A altogether. So, based on the information  provided, I said I 
thought it was likely a Court would say that Metro  Bank indirectly discriminated against 
Mrs A.
I also thought  about what would be considered good industry practice, and said it was unfair 
of Metro Bank not to provide any support to a customer  because  of how its staff assess  their 
language and communication skills. In terms of a branch visit, I said this seemed to rely on a 
personal judgement  by staff members. But I also said it was my understanding  that a 
potential customer may choose  to make their account application  online,  so that would limit 
the personal interaction or any assessment of English  speaking  ability  before an application 
is processed which seemed inconsistent.
I said that in this case, even if Mrs A may not have  been able to speak English fluently, that 
shouldnt necessarily have prevented  her from giving her information  or understanding the 
terms that she was agreeing to with appropriate support. It didnt seem that Metro Bank took 
any steps to support Mrs A with her understanding of its accounts, such  as offering 
translation support  services that many  other  financial  service  providers offer.
Mrs A and her husband were looking to use the banks safety  deposit  box service  and only 
seemed to have  applied  for an account  because it was needed to make use of that facility. 
So I said Metro Banks example  of the consequences of a customer  not understanding a 
time sensitive phone call about a potential  fraud  or payment problem may therefore have 
been less of a concern for Mrs A, if opening the account was simply a means to use the 
safety deposit service.
And I said that given  the limited number of businesses  that offer a safety deposit service,  the 
refusal to open  the account  could  have had a greater impact  on Mrs A than another 
customer wanting to use Metro Banks  other  services.
I said I appreciated what Metro Bank said about Mrs As husbands  behaviour at the time of 
the original application for Mrs A, and I thought  the branch staff should be able to feel 
comfortable in their interactions with customers and so may choose to deal appropriately 
and proportionally  with a particular customers behaviour.  But I didnt think  this was enough 
of a reason to give incorrect information  to Mrs A about why theyd reached the decision to 
refuse her application, and this would most likely  have caused her distress and 
inconvenience.
I also listened to the provided call recording where Metro Bank spoke to directly  to Mrs A to 
let her know that the application had been  declined. This suggested to me that it believed  
her English  was sufficient  to understand this outcome  and again  showed inconsistency  when 
considering its decision  that her English  wasnt sufficient to allow  her to open an account. 
So I thought  it was likely that Mrs A wouldve  experienced  further distress and 
inconvenience. Overall,  I didnt think Metro Bank acted fairly and reasonably when it refused 
to open an account for Mrs A. 
Ref: DRN13267604Mrs A and her husband were eventually able to access  the services they wanted from Metro  
Bank. But I thought  that it would be appropriate to award Mrs A compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused  during  her own application  for an account. The 
adjudicator suggested an award  of £100 would be appropriate, but I didnt think this fully 
reflected the upset  Mrs A was caused and I said that a sum of £500 was a fair reflection of 
the distress and inconvenience  she was caused  by the banks  actions when trying  to 
opening an account, and through the lack of a clear and true explanation of why her 
application was being refused.
The responses
Metro Bank  responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs A said that the bank  had left her feeling  humiliated, ignored and discriminated against. It 
had made  her lose confidence and left her feeling insulted.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of how this situation  continues to affect Mrs A. In reaching my decision, I 
looked to take into account and recognise  the upset she was caused. And it was for this 
reason that I think a sum of £500  represents fair compensation.
Having taken the comments into account, Ive reached the conclusion  that theres no reason  
to depart from the findings I reached  in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Metro Bank  Plc to pay Mrs A £500  for 
the distress and inconvenience  it caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
If Mrs A chooses to accept my decision,  she should also tell us how she wishes  to receive 
the compensation payment from Metro  Bank.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1326760