K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the delay in QBE UK Limited progressing  her property insurance 
claim. 
background
Miss B owns a buy-to-let  property, which suffered damage after a water  leak. Her tenant  
moved out because  of the damage. She made  a claim for the damage, as well as loss of 
rent. QBE  asked for further  information in order to consider the claim. When Miss B didnt 
provide the further information it had asked for, QBE  placed the claim on hold as it didnt 
think Miss B had shown  shed suffered  a financial loss in respect of loss of rent.
Miss B brought a complaint to this service. She said shed provided QBE  with the information 
it has asked for, and didnt understand why it wouldnt  progress her claim. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Miss B had 
provided QBE with all the information it had requested in order for it to progress the claim. 
So she didnt think QBE  had caused unnecessary delays in failing to progress the claim. 
Matters then moved on. Miss B provided our investigator with some further information 
relating to her claim, and explained she didnt have any more  evidence to provide. We 
passed that information to QBE.  
QBE then arranged  for its solicitor to ask Miss B for further information. Miss B refused to 
correspond with QBEs  solicitor. Our investigator was of the opinion  that QBE were entitled 
to ask for the further information.  
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the matter  has been passed  to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The damage happened in April 2017. Miss B advised QBE that her tenant moved  out as a 
result, and that she was claiming for loss of rent, as well as the necessary repairs. QBEs  
contractor went to the property in July 2017  to do the repairs,  and there were people  at the 
property who said they lived there.  The repairs didnt go ahead  at this time.
QBE had concerns  about whether or not Miss B had tenants  in the property when she was 
claiming for loss of rent. It requested  further  information from Miss B relating to the previous 
tenancy, as well as the income  shed received from her tenant. 
Miss B said the people  at the property  werent  tenants, but were  family members who were 
there to let in the contractor. She provided  some  of the information QBE requested, but not 
all of it. She referred QBE  to her letting agent to obtain the further information, however  I 
understand the letting agent refused to correspond  with QBE. 
Ref: DRN13718232Given QBEs concerns that Miss B may have been claiming for loss of rent when she had 
tenants living in the property, I think it was reasonable for QBE to request the further 
information that it did. 
After Miss B brought  her complaint to this service, she provided some additional information 
which we passed  on to QBE. She explained she didnt have any further  evidence.  
Miss B told us shed  let out the property again in October 2017, but at a discounted  rate as 
the repairs still havent been done. She wanted QBE to pay the difference as part of her loss 
of rent claim.
QBE then passed the matter to its solicitor. As matters had moved  on, the solicitor asked 
Miss B for evidence relating to how long the property had been empty, and the date the new 
tenant moved in, as well as the income  she receives from the new tenant. 
Miss B refused to correspond with QBEs solicitor because her complaint had been brought 
to this service. I can understand Miss Bs reasoning, however as Miss B wants  QBE to pay 
the difference between the rent shes receiving from her current  tenant and the rent she was 
receiving before the damage, she would need to provide the information requested in order  
for QBE to consider this part of her claim.  QBE  has confirmed  this is the only information that 
its currently waiting for. 
I would therefore  suggest that Miss B engage with QBEs solicitor and provide the 
information requested  so that QBE can progress  the claim.
Overall, I dont  think QBE has caused unnecessary delays in its handling of this claim. It had 
understandable concerns about Miss Bs claim for loss of rent, and requested  additional 
information before making a claims decision.  Miss B didnt provide it with all the requested  
information. Although  Miss B then provided some more information to this service, she 
explained shed  since let out her property, and wanted QBE to pay the difference between  
the rent she was receiving and the rent shed received before the damage. QBE  has asked 
for more information about this, which I consider to be reasonable. 
Once Miss B provides  QBE with the additional information it has requested,  then I would 
expect QBE to make  a claims  decision.  If Miss B then disagrees  with that claims decision, 
she should let QBE know in the first instance. 
Ref: DRN13718233my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1371823