K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2009. Mr P says American Express Services Europe  Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint and said that because  AMEX told us 
the commission for Mr Ps PPI was less than 50% of what he paid, AMEX  didnt  need  to pay 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
Mr Ps representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd made previously. As 
the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided AMEX didnt need  to tell Mr P about 
the commission it received - so AMEX doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr P 
paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these  conclusions  below. 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Mr P has said the PPI was just included on the card. But hed had the card for some  
years before  the PPI was sold to him by phone  - so it wasnt  just included on the card.
In the sales call Mr P was told the cover was optional and agreed to have it. In any case,  
when he got the call hed had his card for years without the PPI, so he wouldve known 
he didnt have to have PPI to have  the card. 
Mr P has told us hed no inkling hed bought PPI  but hes also said he doesnt recall the 
call, which  isnt too surprising given how long ago it was. Having thought about all this 
carefully, and with all Ive said above  in mind, what I have makes  me think  AMEX  made  it 
Ref: DRN13895422clear Mr P didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it and was aware  he was 
buying it  but it would be understandable  if he didnt recall this now.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P - so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have  to give Mr P enough clear and timely information  so he 
could decide for himself  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it - so it looks like he had some interest in having  
this type of cover. Also, it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. From what  hes told us 
about his sick pay, he wouldve suffered a loss of income if hed been off work  sick for a 
longer time. He couldnt claim for the injury  hed had an operation for, but that was over 
25 years  earlier  so I dont think more information on this exclusion wouldve changed 
his decision about taking the policy. He wasnt affected by any of the other significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover and there were no additional restrictions  on cover  for 
mental health or back problems. Overall it wasnt too dissimilar to what  I think it likely he 
thought he was buying at the time. It also looks like it was affordable.
With all this in mind, it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr P if something 
went wrong and I dont think he wouldve declined it had AMEX  done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr P wouldve still taken  the PPI. It was sufficiently  close  to what  its likely 
he thought he was getting and couldve provided  a useful benefit given his circumstances. 
And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy  in any event.
Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant AMEX should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances  of making a 
claim.
Mr Ps representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Ref: DRN13895423Having done so Ive decided AMEX  didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
AMEX doesnt  need  to do pay back any of the commission Mr P paid. My reasons  are set 
out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Ps representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary,  they have  said Mr P should get back all the money he paid for the policy  
because: AMEX failed to tell Mr P about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  they say I should  find Mr P wouldnt have taken the policy had he 
known about the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he 
paid.
But in this case, AMEX has told us the commission for Mr Ps PPI was less than half of what  
he paid for each premium.  Weve  looked  at how AMEX has worked this out and, based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied the commission in Mr Ps case  was less than half the cost of 
the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think AMEX needed to tell Mr P about  the commission.  So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think AMEX treated Mr P unfairly. 
This means  AMEX doesnt need to pay Mr P back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
Im grateful  to Mr P for the courteous and prompt responses hes given  us during our 
consideration of his complaint.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ps complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN13895424And because Ive decided that American  Express Services Europe  Limited  didnt need  to 
disclose the commission  it received,  it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr P 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389542