K822x 
complaint
Ms S says AXA France IARD (AXA)  has not properly compensated her for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to AXA during this decision.
background
Ms S opened a store card account  in April 1988, at the same time she was sold a PPI policy.
Ms S complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI. Unhappy with its response she asked 
this service to step in.
In August  2019  AXA agreed to uphold  Ms S complaint and offered £2,023.85 compensation.
Ms S doesnt think AXA has fully compensated her for the PPI premiums she was charged.
An adjudicator from this service thought AXA had fairly compensated Ms S. Ms S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
AXA has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy.  So I wont look into 
how the PPI policy came to be sold to Ms S. Ive looked at the compensation AXA has paid 
Ms S to see if it calculated  the redress fairly.
Having done so I think AXA has fairly  compensated Ms S, and Ill explain why.
Where a PPI policy has been  mis-sold Id expect the business  to, as far as is practical, put 
the consumer  in the position theyd be in if the policy hadnt been  sold.
When a business  compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store  card, wed normally  
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed  then 
expect the business to refund to the consumer all the extra they paid because  of the PPI.     
Id also expect a business to add interest  calculated at 8% simple  for the time theyd not had 
use of the money.
To do this a business  ideally needs to know  the actual amounts the consumer spent on the 
store card as the PPI premiums are linked to the outstanding monthly balance.
In this case AXA has detailed records of all the PPI premiums that were charged to Ms Ss 
account from August  2005. But between April 1988 and July 2005 it doesnt  hold detailed, 
Ref: DRN18094732monthly records of the account. I dont find this unusual as businesses  are not required to 
keep detailed records indefinitely.
AXA does however know that in total Ms S was charged £145.17 for PPI over the whole 
term of the policy. It also knows the total purchases  that were made on the card and the total 
interest charged to the card. From this AXA was able to estimate how much Ms S was 
charged for PPI before August 2005. 
AXA has used this information to carry out a reconstruction of Ms Ss account from April 
1988 as if she hadnt been  sold the PPI. And its calculated that Ms S was charged  ££857.63 
interest because of the PPI premiums.
So AXA refunded all the PPI premiums Ms S was charged for the PPI (£145.17)  and the 
extra interest shed  been charged  because of the PPI (£857.63).
AXA also paid Ms S compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple  for the time shed  been  
out of pocket. This amounted to £1,021.05  after income tax had been deducted.
So in total AXA offered  to pay Ms S £2,023.85.  
Ive checked the figures used by AXA in these calculations  and they look fair to me. 
For example, I can see that over the lifetime  of Ms S store  card she was charged  interest  of 
£1,351.37. And AXA has offered to refund £857.63 of this. So, AXA has offered  to refund 
almost two thirds of all the interest charged to the store card as part of the PPI 
compensation. It seems  to me unlikely  that PPI premiums of £145.17  were  responsible  for 
two thirds of all the interest  charged to the store card.
Taking everything into account  I think the offer made by AXA is fair and has been calculated  
in the way Id expect  it to.
my final decision
My final decision is that AXA France IARDs  offer is fair. If it has not already made payment 
to Ms S it needs to bring the 8% interest  part of the calculation  up to date and make 
payment.
I make  no further award against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1809473