K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that her broker Brightside  Insurance Services  Limited cancelled  her home 
insurance policy without  her knowledge or consent. Because the policy was cancelled  Mrs S 
home insurance claim was declined  by her insurance company and Mrs S would like 
Brightside to deal with her claim.
background
After storm damage had caused  an outbuilding roof to collapse Mrs S made a claim. Her 
insurance company  declined the claim as the policy was no longer in force. Mrs S went to 
Brightside as it set the policy up for her and she was now uninsured  and in breach  of the 
conditions with her mortgage  provider. Brightside  wouldnt  deal with the claim, it said the 
condition of the outbuilding meant the claim wouldve been declined  anyway.  Mrs S brought 
a complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Before the insurance company realised it should no 
longer be offering cover it had sent a loss adjuster after the claim was made. Or adjudicator  
said this report concluded the outbuilding was in a reasonable condition prior to the claim. 
Our adjudicator noted there was some debate about  whether cover  applied to the 
outbuildings. But he said in the telephone call recording between  Brightside and Mrs S it was 
clear that outbuildings were discussed  and overall cover  was for up to one million pounds. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the broker had explained cover would end when the property 
became occupied. So he said if cover had been  in place the roof claim wouldve been paid.
In conclusion, our adjudicator said Brightside  as the broker need to step into the shoes of the 
insurer. He confirmed Mrs S would accept the £6,000 reserve placed  on the claim by the 
loss adjuster. He also said Brightside should  pay £200 as compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by cancelling the policy without  notifying Mrs S. Mrs S accepted this 
but Brightside asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loss adjusters report does put a reserve on the cost of the claim at £6,000. It also 
suggests that storm damage is the accepted event leading to the damage.  The report  goes 
on to confirm sections  of the outbuilding roof will need removing and replacing along with 
damaged struts. Although  the adjuster accepts that the outbuilding  might  be quite old he did 
accept the photographic evidence provided  by Mrs S and stated the outbuilding was in 
reasonable order prior to the loss. I think this is compelling evidence to show that an insured 
event took place and that policy  cover would normally apply.
Ive looked through the correspondence, the policy details and listened to the telephone calls 
provided. I dont think at any point Mrs S is told clearly that there  is no insurance on her 
property. There are points in correspondence  that might suggest  some discussions are at 
slightly crossed purposes but that seems to be about levels of cover  and some  of the 
refurbishment. I think its clear from the calls in particular that Mrs S is looking to make  sure 
she has the right levels of cover at the right time,  especially as the property did require quite 
extensive work. I think this ties in with a point  made  by our adjudicator that if Mrs S had been 
notified that cover had been removed shed have  made sure a new policy was put in place. 
Ref: DRN17560922Thats hard to argue  with based  on Mrs Ss actions regarding getting a policy  in the first 
place.
So in relation to the cancellation and the subsequent claim I think Brightside has acted 
unreasonably. I think its clear that if it had informed Mrs S about  the cancellation shed have 
arranged further  cover either with Brightside or elsewhere. Its clear  that she didnt do that 
because she believed  Brightside were providing her with insurance cover.
In terms of covering  outbuildings a conversation did take place and it appeared that Mrs S 
was advised she was fine with her current cover  levels as these went up to one million. It 
was down to Brightside if cover  didnt apply to the outbuildings to explain this to Mrs S when 
she requested cover.  This wasnt done.
So I think the only fair and reasonable outcome is for Brightside to compensate Mrs S for the 
claim. Brightside was trying to act reasonably when it made an offer of £2,000.  But based 
upon the loss adjusters report I think it would be fair to pay the reserve of £6,000.  Mrs S has 
said that the entire structure needs  replacing at a cost of £10,000 but shes willing to accept 
the £6,000 to resolve the matter. I think the loss adjusters report  felt the £6,000  was enough 
and that replacement of struts and the roof sheets wouldve resolved the claim so the £6,000  
is fair.
In terms of the compensation I can see that finding  no cover in place at the point you wish to 
make a claim was stressful for Mrs S. She hadnt  been notified that she needed to find cover 
elsewhere, was under  the impression Brightside  was dealing with her insurance cover  and 
that her claim would be dealt with. Instead none of that turned out to be the case.  I think the 
compensation amount of £200  for distress  and inconvenience is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Brightside  Insurance  Services Limited to:
pay £6,000  for the claim;
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1756092