K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Clydesdale Bank  plc allowed his former partner, over several
years, to access his account and to take out a loan in their joint names without his
knowledge or authority. He believes hes lost around  £90,000  as a result. Hes been assisted
in bringing the complaint by his daughter.  Clydesdale Bank plc trades in this case  under its 
Yorkshire Bank brand. 
background
Mr Bs complaint concerns events between March  2011 and December 2016. Hes explained
that, at that time, he had with Yorkshire  Bank: a joint account with his then partner, Ms C; a 
business account; and a sole account.  Ms C had access to the business account and the 
joint account.
Over the course of several  years, a number of payments were made from Mr Bs sole
account. It was, he says, an account he rarely  used and so had no reason  to check. He was
unaware of the payments until after he and Ms C separated in or about April 2017. It was
then that he found out about  a large  number of payments made  by telephone and internet
banking  services  he hadnt asked for and which hed never used.
In addition, Mr B said, Ms C had taken  out a £6,000 loan in their joint names.  The money
had been paid into her account and she had made the payments, but had stopped  when she
and Mr B separated.  This had left him with the debt and a damaged credit record.  Mr B
believes that Ms C forged  his signature  on the loan agreement.
Yorkshire Bank wasnt prepared however to reimburse Mr B for the money he said Ms C had 
taken, or to write off the loan. It noted that some of the payments at least had gone from
his sole account  to the joint account. The payments that he was now disputing had taken
place over a number of years, and yet he hadnt  brought them  to the banks  attention until
after his separation from Ms C. It also took the view that the loan agreement had been
signed by Mr B. It did however pay him £100 in recognition of some  service failings it had
identified.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He 
didnt however recommend that the bank do anything more  to resolve it. Mr B didnt  agree  
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  I did that and said that, provisionally, I was 
minded to reach the same conclusions, but for different reasons.
I noted in my provisional decision  that Mr B appeared to have  given Ms C a fair degree of 
control over his finances (as well as theirs) for several years.  I noted as well that Ms C hadnt 
apparently felt the need to hide what she was doing on the accounts. For example, shed 
transferred money  from Mr Bs sole account  to their joint account, before transferring it to her 
account. And shed  funded the loan herself, which didnt indicate  a plan to defraud  Mr B. I 
thought it was possible too that Mr B had had the benefit of at least  some  of the money.  
Overall, though, I concluded  that this was really a matter that was best resolved between  Mr 
B and Ms C. In those circumstances, I didnt consider it fair to require Yorkshire Bank to 
reimburse Mr B. 
Mr Bs daughter, whos representing  him, said she didnt agree. She said, in summary:
Ref: DRN14127372The joint and business accounts were  both held by Mr B and Ms C, and she had asked 
for internet banking on them. 
When that request  was made,  letters were  sent by the bank  to both Mr B and Ms C. 
As Mr B hadnt requested  internet  banking,  a set up letter should only have been sent to 
Ms C.
Yorkshire Bank only issues one customer  number to each  customer, regardless of the 
number of accounts  they have or the capacity in which  they hold those accounts.  
By issuing an internet set up letter to Mr B, the bank enabled Ms C to set up internet 
banking on the business  account.  
Because  the bank links all accounts held by an individual,  this then gave Ms C access  
to Mr Bs personal  account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with the point about  the business  account. I note that Mr Bs daughter says 
it was a joint account. The bank has said that it was unable to trace  a business account, and 
it seems that Mr B and Ms C used the joint account, at least  in part, for business purposes. 
I dont accept that the bank should  not have written to Mr B when the application for internet 
banking was made, or that this allowed Ms C to set up internet banking without his 
knowledge. If anything, contacting Mr B made it more, not less likely, that hed find out about 
the application. I am prepared to accept though that, if Ms C was able to get hold of Mr Bs 
notification without his knowledge, she may have been able to impersonate him to set up 
internet banking in his name and thereby gain access to his sole account. 
But none  of this really changes my overall view here  or the reasons for it. In my provisional  
decision I said that I thought this was primarily a dispute between  Mr B and Ms C and that it 
ought properly  to be resolved between them. The further submissions Ive received might 
explain how Ms C was able to gain access to Mr Bs sole account. But they dont change the 
fact that this is really  a matter between the two of them; nor do they change my view that it 
wouldnt be fair to require Yorkshire  Bank  to reimburse him.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Clydesdale Bank plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1412737