K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a conditional  sale agreement with Santander  Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Vauxhall Motor Finance was unaffordable for him and that it was irresponsible for 
it to provide credit to him. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr H under  a conditional sale agreement  with Vauxhall Motor  
Finance that he signed in June 2012. The agreement was for five years but it was settled 
early by Mr H in October 2015.  He complained to Vauxhall Motor  Finance in July 2018  that 
the agreement  was unaffordable for him and that it was irresponsible for it to have provided 
credit to him because he had short terms loans at that time. He wasnt  satisfied with 
Vauxhall Motor Finances  response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
information that Vauxhall Motor Finance had obtained showed  that Mr H was able to afford  
the monthly payments under the agreement  and he couldnt say it was wrong to lend to him.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman but he hasnt provided 
any further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A credit provider should make proportionate checks about the affordability of the credit 
before it provides that credit  to a customer.  But whats proportionate will depend  on the 
circumstances at that time. Mr H entered  into the agreement in June 2012  more than 
seven years ago.
Vauxhall Motor Finance  has provided  evidence to show that Mr H supplied  it with a letter 
confirming his employment status  but it says that Mr Hs salary wasnt obtained.  It says that 
his application  was credit  scored  using its scoring system (which  is business sensitive data) 
which showed that the application should  be accepted.  And it says that it obtained a credit  
report about Mr H and that there was nothing in the report to show that it shouldnt have 
provided credit to him.
Mr H did provide a bank statement to Vauxhall Motor  Finance  but that was for identification 
purposes and wasnt  used to confirm his income  or expenditure. I consider  that it wouldve 
been proportionate for it to have asked  Mr H for details of his income and expenditure. But it 
has confirmed that it didnt do so.
Mr H has provided evidence  to show that his monthly  income at that time was about £1,100 
and that his monthly expenditure  was about  £580.  He says that he also had short term loans 
at that time  and hes provided  details  of those loans. Its clear  that Mr H has relied heavily 
on short  term loans  but the only loan that I can see that was outstanding at the time that he 
entered into the conditional sale agreement was to be repaid the following  month.  
 
So after his monthly expenditure of £580 from his monthly income of £1,100 he wouldve 
been left him with a disposable  income of £520  each month.  So had it obtained  
Ref: DRN18285942proportionate information from Mr H, I consider that it wouldve been reasonable for Vauxhall  
Motor Finance to conclude that he could afford the monthly  payment  under the conditional 
sale agreement of about £243 from his disposable income of £520.
So Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show  that the agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr H or that it was irresponsible for Vauxhall Motor  Finance to have 
provided credit to him in June 2012.  So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to refund to Mr H any of the payments that hes made to it.
Mr Hs agreement was settled in October  2015.  Vauxhall Motor Finance has recorded late 
payment markers  on Mr Hs credit  file about  his payments. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that the information that its recorded is incorrect. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to remove any of that information from his 
credit file  or to take any other action in response to his compliant.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1828594