K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with advice he was given by Independent Pension Analysis, trading as 
O&M Pension Transfers (O&M), about  a possible transfer of his benefits in a former 
employers pension scheme.  
Independent Pension Analysis  is an appointed  representative of Perceptive  Planning  
Limited.
background
Mr W wanted a review  of his deferred benefits  in a former employers defined  benefit 
pension scheme. His financial adviser introduced him to O&M. An initial  review undertaken 
by O&M suggested  Mr W shouldnt  transfer  out of the scheme. Mr W confirmed he wanted to 
have full regulated  advice  and a personal  recommendation. 
Mr W had completed  a pension transfer questionnaire (PTQ). O&M produced  a pension 
transfer analysis  (TVAS) on 24 April 2018 and a pension review report on 2 May 2018. Mr W 
discussed this with O&Ms adviser  on 10 May 2018 and followed this with several emails 
asking for further  clarification which the adviser  provided.
On 2 August  2018 Mr W complained to O&M. He said the report wasnt fit for purpose.  In 
particular:
the report wasnt fully personalised to his individual needs  and circumstances and so 
didnt provide him with sufficient information  to make an informed decision;
how the very high investment returns quoted as required had been calculated  hadnt 
been sufficiently  explained;
the way the report had been  written meant an informed user who wasnt a 
professional investment  adviser  couldnt  understand it fully. 
Mr W said he wasnt going to pay for the report until the complaint process  had been  
completed or hed received a satisfactory  report. He said, if his complaint  about the current  
report wasnt upheld by O&M and this service, the invoice for the report  could be paid. But, if 
the complaint  was upheld, he wouldnt expect to have to pay for the report. 
O&M didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Amongst other things O&M said it had repeatedly told 
Mr W its advice  was that transferring wouldnt be suitable for him and that wasnt  the advice 
he was looking for. But it had fulfilled its part of the contract. It had given Mr W a clear,  
personalised recommendation not to transfer and it was entitled to be paid the agreed fee. 
Mr W asked us to look into the matter. Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint  
should be upheld.  She looked in detail at the report and was satisfied it referred to Mr W 
personally throughout and provided  a comprehensive summary  of his circumstances and 
objectives.
The adjudicator noted the report  referred  to each of the priorities Mr W gave in the PTQ 
which she felt had been covered in detail. On page  six of the report  there was a summary of 
each priority from most to least important and then on pages  twelve  to nineteen each one 
was considered in more  detail. And there was a clear recommendation tailored to Mr Ws 
objectives.
Ref: DRN15858202The report  referred  several times to the telephone discussion Mr W had with the adviser 
which included details  such  as Mr Ws level of comfort when previous investments had 
fluctuated in value and his intention to access the pension  in less than five years.
The adjudicator thought  the language used was straightforward and free of jargon. Where 
technical terms had been used these  were explained and where an abbreviation was used, it 
was first written in full then only after that referred  to by the abbreviation. She gave an 
example of what she was referring to. 
The adjudicators view was that the critical yield needed to match  the benefits Mr W would  
be giving  up in his former  employers  scheme  was explained in detail. The report  said the 
critical yields werent realistically achievable and so a transfer would provide Mr W with 
considerably lower overall pension benefits  at age 55. She noted that O&Ms emails sent to 
Mr W in May and June 2018 gave  further  explanations. Additional  information  was also given 
on page 4 of the TVAS dated 24 April 2018.
All in all the adjudicator was satisfied that O&M had fulfilled its obligations: O&M had 
provided Mr W with a well set out, straightforward  and comprehensive  report  with a clear 
recommendation. The adjudicator was satisfied that O&M had carried out the work it had 
agreed with Mr W and charged him for. The adjudicator  was unable to recommend the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr W didnt agree and said he wanted  an ombudsmans  decision.  In summary he said:
The report didnt show why, from an asset of about £1.15 million, it was unlikely he 
could generate the income he required,  assuming he lived until his mid eighties. 
Hed said throughout that buying an annuity wasnt  a feasible option yet much of the 
report concentrated on that or taking a reduced  pension from the scheme  and retiring 
at age 65. 
There was insufficient analysis of the most  likely scenario of taking drawdown from 
age 55. The drawdown  tables on page nine of the report  didnt  reflect the income  that 
hed need. 
The explanations  of the technical terms used werent clear and he didnt understand 
why the critical yields which drove  the reports conclusions  were so high. 
He didnt agree the report was well set out and he said the adviser had agreed  the 
format could be improved.  He suggested that it was difficult for the adjudicator, given 
her expertise, to understand  why he didnt find the report  easy to follow.   
Mr W made some further comments. He still considered the report  didnt help him make 
significant decisions about his pension arrangements. He said it boiled down to three 
questions which the report didnt answer to his satisfaction:   
Even assuming  growth just to match  inflation, for a fund of about £1.2 million, he 
could draw down  £40,000 a year (adjusted in future years for inflation) and the fund 
would last until his estimated  date of death.  If growth was lower the fund would run 
out sooner if he didnt  adjust the income  he took. But if growth rates were higher the 
fund would last longer  or thered be a balance to pass on. 
He didnt understand why the critical yields quoted  were  so high and why they 
differed so widely. 
He queried whether,  if he approached  a financial adviser  with about £1.2 million to 
invest wanting the option of retiring at age 55, hed be advised to take out an 
Ref: DRN15858203admittedly good  low risk pension product  where  the income only became  available 
from age 65.
The adjudicator considered what Mr W had said. She wrote to him on 29 January 2019 
explaining why her view hadnt changed.  In summary she said the regulator required 
businesses to carry out critical yield calculations in a very specific way to compare the cost 
of providing the benefits given up in the occupational pension  scheme.  The critical yield 
figures seemed  high but took into account the cost of providing  a secure income  for life, 
increasing in line with inflation, a spouses  or dependants pension,  tax free cash  and death 
benefits. 
She didnt  think the investment scenario Mr W had put forward  was comparable. She also 
said the regulator required businesses to start from the presumption  that transferring out 
wouldnt be suitable unless there  was a compelling  reason,  for example, terminal  illness. 
She added that although there  was a requirement  to take financial advice (as Mr Ws fund 
was over £30,000)  it was still open to him not to accept the advice and transfer anyway.  
In reply Mr W said, amongst other things, even if O&M had complied with the regulators 
rules, he still didnt  have  the information  he needed to make  a decision  as to what  to do so 
he had the flexibility  to retire (or semi retire)  from age 55 or later but before  age 65. He 
added that O&M  had originally said it could effect a transfer against advice but had since 
withdrawn that. More recently  Mr W has told us that hes taken  further advice from another 
financial adviser whod prepared a much better report with a clear comparison of his options. 
Mr W said hed been able to make an informed decision which  was being implemented.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W is unhappy with the advice O&M gave him. He wasnt  convinced by O&Ms report  that 
remaining in his former employers pension scheme was the best option for him, given his 
objectives and circumstances. That could be a complaint  that the advice wasnt  suitable  for 
him. Like the adjudicator, Ive approached the complaint  primarily from the basis  of whether 
the service O&M provided was of an acceptable  standard. I havent seen anything to make 
me think O&Ms advice wasnt suitable.  That doesnt mean another adviser would have 
given the same advice.  I note Mr Ws had further  advice. He hasnt said what it was. But, 
even if it was different  to O&Ms  recommendation he didnt transfer, that doesnt mean  
O&Ms advice must  have been unsuitable. 
Further, as Ive gone on to explain,  the regulators requirements about the information that 
must be given when advising on this type of transfer have changed since  Mr W got advice 
from O&M. I think the new requirements go some way at least to addressing some of Mr Ws 
concerns. And it may be that the further  advice hes had has been  formulated in line with the 
new regulations  and has resulted in a recommendation  which Mr Ws found easier to follow 
and understand.  But the issue  is whether O&M complied  with the regulations  in force  at the 
time its advice was given.  
O&Ms pension review  report  dated  2 May 2018  records that O&M had already  undertaken 
an initial review which suggested  that transferring wouldnt  be in Mr Ws best interests. Hed 
paid £350 plus VAT for that initial review.  Hed then said he wanted Full Regulated  Advice 
and a Personal Recommendation which would cost £1,850 (a goodwill deduction of £150  
Ref: DRN15858204had been made as thered  been  some delay).  So Mr W had been  told what  the charge would 
be for the further  advice and had agreed to pay it. 
Ive considered carefully the report itself. I dont  think  its the case that any expertise or 
familiarity with this sort of information  and the technical terms means  we cant  assess the 
report more from a laymans perspective. I agree with the observations  made by the 
adjudicator. I think the report  is generally  clear with any technical terms adequately 
explained. I also take into account that Mr W did raise a number of queries with the adviser 
and further clarification/explanation was given. 
Id agree that the accompanying TVAS is somewhat  more complex  and potentially  
confusing. At the time a TVAS was required on this sort of transfer. The TVAS compares the 
value of the benefits being given up from the defined benefit (final  salary) scheme compared 
to the cost of an identical  annuity.  The TVAS priority is to look at the critical yield  the 
amount the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) would have to grow each year in order to 
build a fund large  enough  to purchase the same annuity at retirement as the former 
employers defined benefits pension scheme  was offering. That might be said to be a 
somewhat narrow approach and which doesnt address the wider issues  as to why someone 
might want  to transfer.
From 1 October  2018  the TVAS was replaced with the Appropriate Pension Transfer 
Analysis (APTA).  It includes  a prescribed comparator  the Transfer  Value Comparator 
(TVC) which  gives  an indication of the value of the benefits being given up and which  must 
be set out in a specified  format. 
Im not going  to go into further detail about what all that means when, as Ive said,  O&Ms 
advice has to be judged  against the rules in force at the time. But I think  its fair to say the 
APTA shifts the focus away  from the critical yield calculations (and which Mr W considers of 
limited relevance). The new approach  is broader  and considers  suitability  more  in the 
context of the consumers objectives and personal  and financial circumstances. I think  that, 
in part at least, is what Mr W may have felt was lacking. 
But, as Ive said, thats all new and has come into force after O&Ms advice  was given. And it 
doesnt mean a TVAS  will no longer be undertaken or be useful information  it can provide 
a good indication of whether a CETV offers good value. Id also point out that the regulators 
rules - see COBS 19.1.6G (2) - still say that a firm should start by assuming that a transfer 
wont be suitable. 
To deal with some of Mr Ws specific criticisms, its clear his priority was to retire  early, 
maybe at age 55 and certainly before age 65.  I  think O&M understood that  it identified  the 
ability to retire early as Mr Ws first priority. The report referred then to the critical yield (an 
explanation of which was given) if Mr W retired at age 55. But, whether  he took tax free cash 
or not, O&M considered the critical yield wasnt  realistically achievable. That doesnt  mean  
that O&M didnt take into account Mr Ws priority was to retire  early as opposed to looking  at 
whether that was financially  achievable. 
Mr W has said he doesnt understand why the critical yields are so high. And I can see why, 
just taking into account the pension  that would be paid by his former employers scheme up 
until, say, Mr Ws mid eighties, the CETV looks attractive. But, as the adjudicator  has said,  
the critical yield has to be calculated in a prescribed way. Actuarial assumptions are made  
including about  annuity rates; revaluation of benefits  up to retirement  date; indexation of the 
pension in payment;  and mortality (including  future improvements in mortality rates). 
Ref: DRN15858205And the cost of matching  some of the benefits will be expensive.  For example, if the pension  
in payment escalates at, say, 3% pa, then a pension which starts off at £20,000  pa will rise 
to £27,000 in ten years and to £36,000  in twenty  years. Further the critical yield will take into 
account the cost of all the benefits potentially payable, including  a spouses  pension (I think  
here thats two thirds  of the members pension) and any other dependants benefits. 
All in all I dont think O&Ms advice was deficient.  In the circumstances Im unable  to agree 
with Mr W that he shouldnt  have  to pay the fee he agreed with O&M.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1585820