K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the actions Barclays Bank UK PLC took after he notified it of 
unauthorised transactions on his account.  Barclays refunded him the transactions, but Mr R 
doesnt think it paid him enough compensation for its mistakes during the process.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Rs complaint in February  2020.  Heres what I said:
Mr R got in touch with Barclays  on 20 May about unauthorised transactions on his account,  
amounting to roughly £2,000. He only became aware of them  after his phone  was cut off as 
there wasnt enough money  on his account for the payment to go through.
Barclays credited the disputed  amounts  back to his account the next day, and asked him to 
fill out a disclaimer  form. It also cancelled Mr Rs debit card and sent him a replacement one.
Mr R was abroad at the time so he couldnt  get hold of the new debit card.  But he transferred 
about £1,000 to a family members account,  who then sent the money to him.
Mr R returned the disclaimer form to Barclays, but it misplaced this. As Barclays  thought  the 
form wasnt returned, it cancelled the credited amount on 25 June. It returned the funds on 
27 June  after Mr R got in touch again. But at this point Barclays  actually over-credited 
Mr Rs account by almost £700.
Mr R started using  his debit card again around  10 July after hed returned to the UK. And 
Barclays finally balanced Mr Rs account  on 19 July. It also refunded  bank charges for the 
period covering the fraudulent activity. And its offered a total of £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mr R doesnt think Barclays has paid him enough  to compensate him for his losses. He says 
he lost out on business when his phone was cut off. Hes also explained how distressing the 
entire situation was of not having  access to his funds, the trouble he and his family  went  
through to send  him money  abroad, and his having  to phone Barclays several times to sort 
everything out.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Rs complaint. She accepted  that Barclays had made  
some mistakes here,  but it rectified these  eventually. And she hadnt  seen  evidence  that 
Mr R had lost out as a result of these mistakes. So overall, she thought the compensation 
Barclays had offered fairly reflected the trouble and upset caused  for Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators  findings. As no agreement  was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its unfortunate that Mr R was a victim of fraud,  and that his phone was cut off as a result of 
these transactions  making his account  go overdrawn. But this wasnt  Barclays  fault.
Ref: DRN14996062Its not in dispute  that Barclays made  a mistake in cancelling the credited amount of around 
£2,000 on 25 June. Although I can see that it actually re-credited about £1,000 the same  
day. And when Mr R called in, it paid roughly an additional  £1,700  on 27 June. Barclays  
finally balanced the accounts  on 19 July.
When a bank is notified of unauthorised transactions, its a normal part of the process to 
cancel the relevant payment card to prevent further  fraud. And Barclays has confirmed a 
replacement card is sent to the address it holds on file. 
I can appreciate it wouldve been  frustrating to not have a bank card whilst Mr R was abroad. 
And I think this is the main reason why he struggled to use the funds in his account. But I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong  by cancelling the card and sending  a replacement  
one to Mr Rs normal address.
The only period in time when Mr R didnt have all the funds on his account that he shouldve,  
and because of an error  made by Barclays, was between 25 and 27 June. But even after 
Barclays re-credited the account on 27 June, Mr R didnt transfer money  from the account 
until 4 July. I dont  think Barclays mistake here caused Mr R to lose out on the use of his 
money during  those  two days  so I dont  think it needs to pay Mr R any additional interest  
for those  days.
Its clear that Mr R has had to get in touch with Barclays  several times to get everything  
sorted out between 20 June and 19 July. And that Barclays actions caused him trouble and 
upset. But I think the compensation  its offered  a total of £300  fairly reflects this.
Our investigator asked  Mr R a copy of his credit file to see if there was any adverse 
information recorded as a result of Barclays mistake. But to date, Mr R hasnt been  able to 
provide this. Unless I see evidence from Mr R to show  theres adverse information recorded  on 
his credit file as a result  of Barclays mistake, I dont think theres anything else it needs to do.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision to say that Id overlooked the number of times  
funds left his account, the charges he incurred, and the fact that he had to constantly chase 
the bank to rectify the issues. Mr R said the decision seemed to have been oversimplified.
The deadline  to provide  any further comments or information following my provisional 
decision has now passed. So, Im issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Mr R brought the complaint to us, Barclays had said it had refunded the bank charges 
Mr R had incurred during the period  covering the fraudulent activity. But it has now found that 
a £15 charge  that was debited in August   so a month after the account  was balanced  was 
missed at the time and wasnt refunded. Barclays says its happy  to refund this charge as well.
It doesnt look like Mr R complained earlier that Barclays hadnt refunded all the charges  
and specifically the charge applied in August. But as soon as he raised this, Barclays  
confirmed it will be refunded as well. As Mr R didnt raise this issue  before, I dont think 
Barclays needs to do anything other  than refund the charge. Based on what  Ive seen, I think 
it was always Barclays intention to refund  all the relevant charges incurred.
Ref: DRN14996063Ive had another look at Mr Rs account  statements, and Im satisfied that how Ive explained 
the funds being debited  and credited  from Mr Rs account in my provisional  decision reflect  
the information on the statements.  So, I dont  see any reason to depart from my provisional 
findings on these.
Mr R thinks I overlooked  the fact that he had to chase Barclays  several  times  to rectify the 
issues. But I accepted  in my provisional decision that it was clear  Mr R had to get in touch  
with Barclays several  times  to get everything sorted  out. So, I took this into account when 
considering if the banks  offer of compensation was enough.
Overall, I think the offer Barclays has made  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. And I havent seen evidence  to show that any adverse information was 
recorded on Mr Rs credit file as a result  of Barclays mistake. So, I dont think  theres  
anything else Barclays needs  to do about this.
Lastly, Mr R says my decision seemed to have been oversimplified. But in both my 
provisional and final decisions, Ive focused  on the facts that I think are material to the 
outcome of Mr Rs complaint  as Im required  to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think the offer 
Barclays Bank UK PLC made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr R £200,  in addition to the 
£100 already paid,  for the distress and inconvenience caused. It should also refund him 
the £15 charge.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Renja Anderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499606