K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Glasgow  Credit Union Ltd mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies with a number of different loans. The level of cover  varied  from accident  and 
sickness only, to accident, sickness and unemployment across the different policies. 
background
Mr M took out PPI with a number of different loans  between  2003 and 2010. He paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the PPI taken  with loans in November 2003 and January 2004. 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd made an offer to settle  this part of the complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the other PPI policies sold with the other loans between 2004  
and 2010. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been passed  
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
November 2003  and January  2004  sales
I havent seen  enough evidence that Glasgow Credit Union Ltd made Mr M aware that PPI 
was optional and that he agreed to take it out. I uphold the sale of the PPI with these two 
loans. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has shown us how much Mr M paid for PPI in relation to these two 
loans and how it intends to compensate Mr M. Their offer seems fair and in line with our 
approach if the loans  didnt run for their full term, but for the avoidance of any doubt:
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and Glasgow 
Credit Union Ltd should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Glasgow Credit Union Ltd can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN12364832 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Glasgow Credit Union Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Glasgow Credit Union Ltd must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
PPI taken with loans between 2004 and 2010
Ive decided not to uphold  this part of Mr Ms complaint because:
Due to the time thats passed since the sale, call recordings are no longer available. 
This isnt unusual and in situations  like this Ive to decide what  I think  is more likely  
than not to have  happened  based on the available evidence.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Glasgow Credit Union Ltd made Mr M 
aware that he had a choice about  buying  these PPI policies, and that he chose to 
take them out.
I say this for a number  of reasons including:
oIve seen some of the paperwork  signed by Mr M for some, but not all of the 
loans to consent to taking  the PPI out. For example,  for the May 2009 sale,   
on a demands a needs statement - which outlines  what was being  
recommended, it states Our recommendation on our optional  Insurance  
cover. Mr M has signed this document. 
 
oIve also noted  that there are inconsistencies  in Mr Ms testimony.  For 
example, he initially  complained that it was only recently that he realised he 
was paying for PPI and it was added without  his knowledge. But in his PPI 
questionnaire dated October 2012,  Mr M has said he was pressured into 
taking PPI.
oIve also considered that pressure can be subjective and what feels like 
pressure to one person  may not to another. As this was a sale where  
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd were  making a recommendation  to take PPI, its 
possible that the adviser may have said that Mr M should take PPI. But this is 
very different  to the saying that he had to take PPI.
oIve also noted  that Mr M made a claim on the PPI in February 2008. This 
doesnt support  what hes said at one point about not knowing that he had 
PPI. Given the time thats passed since these  policies were sold,  its not at all 
surprising that he may not remember everything clearly now.  
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd Business recommended the PPI to Mr M, and it seems  to 
have been right for him based on the nearest relevant policy  documents for each sale 
and what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances across  this time period. 
As the call recordings are no longer available, Ive assumed that Glasgow Credit 
Union Ltd couldve  explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think that Mr M would still have bought the PPI policies as I think that Mr M had 
a need for PPI based on what hes told us about his existing means of making his 
repayments. 
Ref: DRN12364833Its possible Glasgow Credit Union  Ltd didnt point out the main  things the PPI didnt 
cover. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr M paid on his policies taken out between April 
2004 and February  2010   and whether Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly.  
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has told us that the commission for Mr Ms relevant policies was 
less than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Glasgow Credit Union 
Ltd has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ms 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr M back 
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
Ive also taken into account Mr Ms comments,  including what hes said about not needing  
PPI because of his sick pay. But based on my wider  understanding of Mr Ms employment, 
although he was entitled to 12 months  sick pay, half way through the 12 months, his pay 
would have decreased to half sick pay. 
The PPI could have  paid out for at least 12 months  (potentially for up to 24 months 
dependant on when the policy  was taken out), which is for longer than Mr M would have 
received full sick pay. So I still think  that Mr M had a need for the cover and the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable.
Ive also considered that Mr M seems to have  had limited or no other means apart  from 
some sick pay for making his repayments.  
Although Mr M has said that he didnt  know what he was signing for, it wouldnt have been  
unreasonable for him to question what he was signing if he was unsure.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about the PPI sold between 
2004 and 2010.
But I do uphold Mr Ms complaint about the PPI sold in November 2003 and January 2004.  
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ref: DRN12364834Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1236483