K821x#15complaint
Mr F obtained a kitchen through a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance (BPF). He complains that two of the 
appliances dont  fit in the unit supplied.  He wants the kitchen that the retailer designed for 
him and his wife. 
background
Mr F entered  into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in June 2017 to obtain a kitchen. He 
repaid the loan in full within the first 12 months.
The kitchen design included a combi microwave oven and a coffee  machine. But, when 
supplied, these appliances didnt fit in the unit.
Mr F complained to the retailer.  It made  various offers to try to resolve the problem,  including  
changing one of the appliances to a smaller one and making the gap in the unit bigger, but 
these werent acceptable  to Mr F. 
Mr F took his complaint  to BPF but it said the contract was only for the supply of the kitchen, 
not fitting. And that it was Mr Fs responsibility to check the design measurements to make  
sure the appliances  would fit.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service. We concluded that the retailer hadnt shown 
reasonable skill when it designed  the kitchen because it provided appliances that didnt fit in 
the unit it supplied.  We thought thered been  a breach of contract because  the kitchen wasnt  
fit for purpose - the appliances  couldnt be used as intended.
Our investigator was unable to mediate a settlement which was acceptable to both parties, 
so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I considered the design and ordering of the kitchen to be part of the contract of supply 
between Mr F and the supplier. I concluded  that reasonable care and skill hadnt  been 
shown in designing and ordering the kitchen and that thered been  a breach of contract. As 
BPF had provided finance for the kitchen, I concluded, taking account of relevant law in 
reaching my conclusion, it was fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for putting things 
right.
I explained why I thought  the most satisfactory  resolution would be for three new units  to be 
designed and supplied that line up and hold all of the appliances as detailed in the original  
contract. I also thought BPF should  arrange to remove  the existing units  and carry out any 
necessary remedial work caused by removal of the units. And that Mr F should be paid £500 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the actions of BPF.
As part of my provisional decision, I asked Mr F and his wife to obtain three quotes for the 
work needed so that we could pass these  onto BPF for it to choose  its preferred supplier.
Ref: DRN14139532responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  agreed with my provisional decision and Mr F obtained three quotes. This 
proved quite difficult and time consuming.
Once BPF had been provided  with the third quote, it reviewed the complaint and asked  us to 
make an alternative offer to Mr F. It said it would refund the amount it had lent under the 
terms of the fixed sum loan and pay £500  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mrs F, on her husbands behalf,  said she would  accept this offer. In doing  so, Mr F has 
agreed to take no further action against  BPF in relation  to the kitchen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing that BPF didnt make this offer at a much earlier stage, and that it waited 
until Mr F had supplied  the quotations, especially as it knew  it was proving very difficult to 
get suppliers to quote for the work.
But Im pleased that the parties have agreed a settlement  which I think  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and will allow Mr and Mrs F, finally, to finish  their kitchen.
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance should:
1. Refund the loan amount of £9,784.85 to Mr F.
2. Pay Mr F £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1413953