K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Independent Financial Planning (Anglia) Ltd (IFP) applied  an on-
going service charge  to their pension pots,  but did not provide pro-active on-going advice.
In order to resolve this complaint Mr and Mrs S want IFP to refund the service  charges it 
received.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  brought  two complaints to this service about two separate  financial 
planning businesses.  This decision only relates  to their complaint about  Independent  
Financial Planning (Anglia).
In late 2017 IFP advised  Mr and Mrs S on transferring their personal pensions to a new 
provider. Mr and Mrs S say they were  happy with this advice. 
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained to IFP. They  said:
We are paying fees for the management of our funds,  but how is this possible now we are 
French resident.
Why have we not received any proactive communication relating to the huge  losses  of our 
funds. Or any alternative counter measures only when I contact you do we receive contact. 
Can you explain this as I thought part of your service was regular reviews  and 
communication?
Can you immediate take steps to protect  and mitigate any future  losses to our funds.
Can you outline what steps will be taken  to compensate us for the losses caused  by the 
missing advice.
IFP did not uphold  their complaint. It noted  that the suitability report it sent Mr and Mrs S in 
December 2017  set out that a service  charge  would  be taken on a monthly basis  from their 
pension pots.  It also noted that both Mr and Mrs S had signed an On-going  adviser  fee form 
agreeing to the fee.
It also provided extracts from emails  it had sent to Mr and Mrs S about their investments.  It 
said it felt this showed that it had been  in regular  contact  with them.
In relation to the drop in the value of their pension pots it said geo-political  events had led to 
stock market falls. It said that if Mr and Mrs S were not comfortable with the fluctuations in 
the value of their investments they might wish to review the information they had provided to 
IFP on their attitude to investment risk.
Mr and Mr S were  not satisfied with IFPs response and referred  their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said she didnt think their complaint  against IFP should  be upheld.  She said 
she was of the view that Mr and Mrs S did receive  the on-going service they was promised. 
She noted the IFP said Mr and Mrs S had moved to a new financial adviser before their first 
annual face to face review was due. It also provided  evidence to show  that it had been  in 
contact with Mr and Mrs S by email about  the investment  performance  of their pension  pots.  
Ref: DRN12407652It had also reminded them that they could review  their risk rating if they were  not happy  with 
level of risk their investments were exposed to. 
In view of this our investigator said she felt that IFP had provided Mr and Mrs S with the on-
going service they were  promised. And she said IFP was entitled to charge for the service  it 
had provided. 
She also noted that Mr and Mrs S had said that IFP did not hold the correct permission with 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) to provide  advice  to them  once 
they were living  in France. She explained that this service doesnt have the power  to fine or 
discipline a financial business if it breaches regulatory requirements. That is the role of the 
FCA. She said that if Mr and Mrs S wanted  to pursue this aspect of their complaint they 
could contact the FCA directly.
Mr and Mrs S did not accept our investigators view and asked for their complaint  to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
They said they did not feel the investigator  had fully understood their complaint. In particular,  
they said their complaint  was that IFPtook money for providing ongoing advice, when 
virtually none was provided, and then only on being  initiated by me i.e. NO Proactive 
management of my fund - There is no evidence he did this (only  emails from him that were 
generated after a call from me) surely this cannot be in accordance  with rules or best 
practice?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against  IFP should be upheld.  Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they understood that they would receive  on-going advice. From the 
correspondence I have  seen it appears  they were particularly concerned that the value of 
their investments had fallen from the initial purchase  prices. 
In the suitability report dated December  2017 under the heading Future  Contact and 
Ongoing Services it said:
We strive  to provide  you with a first class service and hope  that we can continue  to be of 
service to you for many years to come. We believe it is important to review  your investment 
strategy at regular intervals  to ensure it continues to meet  your aims and objectives. Through 
a range of service  levels we offer you have selected  to enrol  in our 'Gold Service'  as an 
ongoing level of service which will give you regular quarterly valuations,  advice  to rebalance  
your portfolio  as well as switching funds to keep up with the changing markets.
It is not in dispute  that IFP provided  regular  valuations  to Mr and Mrs S. What  is in dispute is 
whether IFP offered  advice to rebalance your portfolio.
From the information provided it is clear that IFP was monitoring  Mr and Mrs Ss investments 
and, when it felt it was advisable for them to rebalance their portfolio, it contacted them.  
Ref: DRN12407653In particular, I note that on 18 October  2018 IFP contacted  Mr and Mrs S to say:
Please find attached your latest  valuation.
I would advise that we switch some  of your holdings  as the markets are changing  mainly  due 
to geo-politics, and the US/China trade war concern,  however, I can confirm that the 
fundamentals are looking promising  for the future  as overall companies are still making  
excellent profits which inevitably  drive  the market up.
I would recommend that we invest in the new suggested portfolio attached 
Please do let me know by email that you have read the enclosed and you wish me to 
proceed. Please note that if I dont hear from you there will be no change to your existing 
portfolio
 If you wish to review  or change your current risk rating please  let me know  and I will send 
you a form to complete.
It appears IFP followed this email up with a phone call to check whether Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to adjust their risk rating. IFP says Mr and Mrs S decided not to revise their risk 
profile at that time.
In November 2018 IFP emailed Mr and Mrs S again. It appears this was in response to an 
email from Mr S. In this response IFP said:
Your last review was on 17th October, unfortunately the market has gone down since  then. I 
can understand your concerns, however, we have  just experienced a correction, the main 
reason is the uncertainty of Brexit and US/China negotiations. It happened so quickly it was 
difficult to see where  it was going  to go and caught out all the fund managers.  The fact that 
overall, companies are still making good  profits is the underlying  reason why it will drive  the 
markets up again  when these matters start settling.
The bottom line is that when the geo-politics  start seeing a bit more certain the markets  
should respond in a positive way. In the past this has been rapid so I am reluctant to put my 
own and clients money into cash as we could miss a surge in prices. However, if you want 
to go this route please let me know.
It is unsettling, but if we look over the long term clients have all made  significant  gains. In the 
medium term I am sure this will be the case in the future. Sorry that I cant  be more certain 
about tomorrow.
In view of this I cant reasonably find that IFP failed to provide on-going advice  on re-
balancing Mr and Mrs Ss investments to keep up with the changing markets.
It appears that Mr and Mrs S became  concerned when their investments fell in value. But as 
IFP explained, no equity  backed investment is immune to fluctuations in value. As IFP noted  
if Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with the fluctuations in the value of their investments they 
may have  benefitted  from reviewing their risk profile  and switching to lower risk funds. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN12407654Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1240765