K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc acted unfairly by refusing to give her more  time 
to sell her property, despite the mortgage ending in 2017. She wants  matters  put right.
background
Ms B had an interest  only mortgage with Barclays  and its term came to an end in 2017. Ms B 
didnt pay off the mortgage in full. She agreed  with Barclays  that she would  sell her property 
in order to repay the mortgage and was given 18 months to do so. Ms B put the property on 
the market but didnt  manage to sell it; it wasnt on the market  at various points either.  
Barclays refused to give Ms B more time as she didnt have a confirmed buyer. 
Ms B complained to Barclays. It said Ms B had already been given time to sell her property, 
and had no firm offer to buy her property. Barclays wouldnt give more time to Ms B.
Ms B complained to us. The investigators view was that it was fair and reasonable to expect 
the mortgage to be repaid as agreed  when it ended. Barclays had given Ms B time and in his 
view had acted fairly  in refusing to give Ms B more time. The investigator pointed out that 
Ms B could explore other options to raise  the money, and that due to the short  nature of the 
lease, delay was likely  to make matters worse.
Ms B disagreed. She said Barclays could  wait another three years and then she could get an 
equity release mortgage, and that it was possible  to extend the lease if she had a new 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Barclays is at fault. Ms B agreed the length of the mortgage  and that she would 
pay the mortgage in full when it ended in 2017. The evidence is that she said her repayment  
plan was to sell the property when she took out the mortgage. Barclays reminded Ms B in 
2013 that the mortgage was ending in 2017  and needed to be paid, and repeated  that 
reminder in the following yearly  mortgage  statements.  Im satisfied that Ms B knew  the 
mortgage had to be paid by 2017.
Ms B is currently of an age when  she could get an equity release mortgage. She hasnt 
provided any evidence  why she hasnt applied for one by now.  I also note that Ms B chose to 
take her property off the market while this complaint has been with us, despite knowing 
Barclays must be paid and the only realistic option was likely to be selling the property. Ms B 
is also aware that the value of the property and the ability to sell it is significantly affected  by 
the lease issue,  and time is of the essence.  All of these factors are relevant to Barclays  
refusal to give Ms B more time, and I dont think its view is unfair.
Ms B was given 18 months, the maximum period  Barclays offers,  to sell the property  herself. 
She repeatedly refused to sue the voluntary scheme to help customers sell their property 
offered by Barclays, according to the contact  notes (on which I place weight as they were 
written at the time), and her property wasnt on the market when she asked for more  time in 
October 2018. In the circumstances, Barclays acted fairly in refusing to give Ms B more time.
Ref: DRN12234252my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept  or reject my decision 
before 15 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1223425