K820x#14complaint
Mr I says Shawbrook Bank Limited Plc took too long dealing  with his commercial bridging 
loan application,  and as hed agreed to buy the property  at auction he had a completion 
deadline. He says had Shawbrook told him at the start that he needed a signed lease in 
place at completion then he would have  tried another  lender.
background
I have left out a lot of the finer detail to avoid the risk of identifying  Mr I and/or the other 
parties involved when  my decision is published.  This includes  not providing  a detailed 
breakdown of the various companies  involved because  as came to light whilst the 
application was being underwritten - whilst  the vendor and tenants were in effect the same 
person, they were  actually three  different limited companies but the same  person was the 
director of all three.
On 6 September 2017 Mr I agreed  to buy a commercial property (with residential flat above) 
at auction. At the time two limited companies  occupied the property, plus there was a 
separate residential tenant in the flat.
Mr Is broker put forward  a proposal to Shawbrook on 11 September  and the same day 
Shawbrook agreed  the application in principle and provided a list of it requirements. This 
said:
On 29 September  the broker emailed Shawbrook saying There is no lease,  the owner of the 
business is also the current owner of the property.  [Mr I] will put a lease in place once this 
completes.
The lender  replied querying  whether  that meant there would be vacant possession  of the 
commercial property, asking whether Mr I had a new tenant lined up.
Correspondance passed between the parties  where it was said the current owner of the 
property would remain in the commercial property  with his businesses,  just changing from 
being the owner of the property to becoming  Mr Is tenants.
Despite its understandable concerns with that  as the tenants  were not an unconnected 
third party - Shawbrook agreed to continue with the application, on the basis  signed leases 
were in place for completion.
As all the other information had been received  Shawbrook issued a formal offer to lend on 
5 October, and within that added a condition that the signed leases needed to be in place.
On 12 October Mr Is broker  submitted  some  draft leases,  and Shawbrooks  solicitor emailed 
Mr Is solicitor to ask for an undertaking that the draft leases would be put in place on 
completion.
But on 17 October  Mr Is solicitor replied that the leases wouldnt be signed by the tenants  or 
the seller and wouldnt be in place on completion.
Further correspondance was entered into with Shawbrook becoming more  concerned  that 
the vendor of the property  (who  would become Mr Is tenant) was unable   or unwilling  to 
Ref: DRN13470952provide information,  and was also apparently unwilling to sign the leases in time for 
completion. There were conversations and emails on 17 and 18 October looking for ways  to 
resolve things, and it was left that Mr Is solicitor would look to see if the deadline for 
completion could  be extended past that day. 
Mr I has provided  a copy of a fax from the vendors solicitor to his solicitor  on 18 October  
which says as he had failed to complete that day the vendor was terminating  the contract 
and Mr Is deposit that he had paid at the auction would be forfeited.
On 25 October Shawbrooks solicitor chased  Mr Is solicitor  for an update, and was told Mr I 
was looking at alternative funding for the purchase. Shawbrooks solicitor  said all it was 
waiting on was confirmation the purchase could still go ahead  (as it was after the deadline)  
and whether the tenants would sign the leases.
Nothing further was heard until 2 November when  Shawbrook  was told Mr I wasnt  
proceeding with it as hed secured alternative funding. It seems the purchase went through  
on that day, and according to land registry  records  the purchase price  was an amount  
broadly equivalent to the price Mr I had agreed at auction less the deposit that had been 
forfeited.
Our adjudicator said it was clear Shawbrook wanted  signed leases, and he couldnt  see any 
delays on the part of the business. Mr I didnt agree and so the matters been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr I wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
As a starting point,  its up to Shawbrook what information it needs to decide whether to lend 
money. Shawbrook made it clear  in the heads  of terms is issued on 11 September  that it 
needed a signed and dated commercial lease agreement in place to an unconnected third 
party tenant. 
It was only on 29 September that Mr Is broker told Shawbrook that there was no current 
lease in place.  The wording of that email wasnt clear as it simply said the owner of the 
property was also the owner of the business  (that was trading from the premises),  and that 
Mr I would be putting a lease in place on completion  of the purchase. Shawbrook  read that 
email to mean that the trading business would be leaving the property and Mr I would need a 
new tenant. Thats an understandable  interpretation  of the email as otherwise comes  the 
obvious question  of why a person would sell a property he owns  and trades from, and put 
himself at the mercy of a new owner  and whatever rental terms they may wish to impose.
The broker  explained the vendor would be remaining as the tenants  saying  [Mr I] is looking 
to set up a lease with the current tenants  of the commercial unit.  Shawbrook  replied to ask 
how far along negotiations were as if the current tenants didnt renew/sign a new lease at 
Ref: DRN13470953completion it wasnt that comfortable  with a new tenant given Mr Is lack of commercial  
experience. The broker said the tenants would continue at the property  and  a new lease 
will be negotiated once  Mr I has purchased the property.
As this didnt  meet its criteria Shawbrook said the signed leases needed to be put in place at 
completion. Once the broker sent the draft leases in Shawbrooks solicitor agreed  its 
acceptance to them and asked Mr Is solicitor to provide an undertaking those would be put 
in place at completion.  It seems,  however, that Mr Is solicitor was unable to provide that 
undertaking because the vendor and tenants  were  unwilling  or unable   to sign the 
documents for an undisclosed reason. Mr I has said its because there was only three  days 
notice, but thats  not the case, Mr Is solicitor was told about  needing  the undertaking six 
days before  the completion deadline  and it had been  clear  since  11 September that signed 
leases needed  to be in place.
Mr I has said Shawbrook shouldnt have issued the formal offer as the lease issue  wasnt  
resolved. He says it broke its own heads  of terms when  it did so as those said a formal offer 
would only be issued  once it was in receipt of, and satisfied with, the lease(s).  I would 
reassure Mr I that its normal industry  practice to move outstanding items to being conditions 
of the lending offer if the lender is happy to do that. Thats not something I would criticise; Id 
say its good customer service to try to keep things moving  forward,  and be as pragmatic as 
possible in such matters.  By moving it from being  a pre-offer condition  to being  a post- offer 
condition didnt change  Shawbrooks right to still require the signed  lease.
Ive also looked  at the correspondence between the solicitors, the broker  and Shawbrook  to 
try to get to the bottom of the delays  and Im satisfied the delays werent down to Shawbrook 
or its solicitor. In fact, Shawbrook and its solicitor were the ones chasing things up and trying  
to obtain all the information that had been  asked for. As I can only consider the actions of 
Shawbrook and its solicitor when acting as Shawbrooks agent, I cant comment further on 
the cause of the delays as its not within  my power to do so.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Shawbrook kept the application moving  forward 
and acted fairly at all times. Shawbrook is entitled  to ensure any application it receives fits its 
lending criteria and unfortunately in this case Mr I was unable to meet the requirements that 
Shawbrook had set out on 11 September when he applied.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1347095