K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited,  trading as Very, unfairly added 
interest to her account. She wants a refund  of the interest payments.
background
Mrs G tells us that the terms and conditions of her finance agreement with Very werent 
clear. And this led to her being charged interest. She says she made payments which she 
thought would avoid this. Mrs G states that she doesnt think Very has set out the terms of 
the account clearly,  including on its website  and app. And that shes  been misled as to the 
requirements needed to avoid interest payments.
Very told us that where such options  were available,  customers were required to make  
payments at scheduled  times to avoid  interest  payments.  It explained that its Take  3 option 
required the consumer  to make the payments for every consecutive statement period over 
three months. It said Mrs G hadnt always done  so. It noted that on some  occasions the 
required payment  hadnt  been  made  and at other  times  no payment whatsoever had been 
received. Very further explained that Mrs G had also opted to use its Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) option.  For interest  to be avoided, this required payment in full by the end of the 
payment free period.  And where Mrs G hadnt made the payment  in full it said the deferred  
interest had been  correctly applied.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Very 
had set out the terms and conditions of the account  clearly at the time Mrs G opened  the 
account. He also explained the same information  was available at the point of sale both on 
the app and the website.  He thought this set out the terms and conditions  clearly and 
accurately. And that Very had applied  the interest  charges in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Mrs G didnt agree. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs G feels strongly  about this matter. And I can understand shed be 
disappointed to incur charges if she thought shed taken the correct steps to avoid this.
In summary,  Mrs Gs complaint is that the terms of the agreement dont make it sufficiently 
clear that - in order to avoid interest  - payments need to be made  periodically  and on time. 
Even if previous  overpayments have been made.  And she feels  this lack of clarity has led 
to her incurring interest charges which she sought  to avoid.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ref: DRN10744112This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information by the parties. This has included  
the monthly statements, and screen shots of both the online website page and the relevant 
app.
I empathise with Mrs G in believing that it would be reasonable to try and make  advance  
payments. And - by making  more than the minimum required  in one month - trying  to cover 
the next months payment.  But thats  not what the terms and conditions  of the agreement 
require. Each business is entitled to apply such terms and conditions to an account as it 
sees fit. Provided it makes these clear to its customers.
Ive viewed the various statements and online app and website. Ive reached the conclusion 
that the information required for a customer to make an informed choice, together with the 
relevant process  involved with each option  is clearly  set out.
The statements  set out the balances that apply to the different accounts such as Take  3, 
BNPL or flexible. It also details the minimum payment required. And that includes  the date 
by which  payments on the BNPL account need  to be made in order for interest to be 
avoided.
I appreciate that Mrs G has said she didnt see this information.  And I accept its sometimes  
tedious to read through all the small print or terms and conditions. But a business  is still 
entitled to rely on these  conditions even where customer hasnt read them.
I note that Very has refunded an administration charge which it describes as a gesture  of 
goodwill. Given the amount refunded is only £12, I accept that by any standards  this is a 
very modest  gesture. But as I dont  think Very has done anything  wrong it wouldnt  be fair 
and reasonable for me to require it to increase this.
In summary,  I find that the information relating to the terms on which interest payments 
would be applied was made clear. In those circumstances  I shant be upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN10744113my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1074411