K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained about his home  contents insurer, Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G)  
in respect of the settlement  offer it has made to him for jewellery  stolen from his home.
background
Mr L was looking after some jewellery belonging to his wife. There  was a burglary and some 
of these items, and other valuables were stolen.  L&G initially  said it would only settle  for 
items that belonged to Mr L. He pointed  out though that his policy  offered cover  for items he 
was legally responsible for. L&G eventually accepted that Mr L was legally responsible  for 
the items  that belonged  to his wife and made an offer to settle the claim.  
In making its offer L&G explained that it was limited in line with the policy terms. It said the 
policy allowed for it to settle based on its costs and only to a maximum of £2,865 per 
valuable item. Mr L felt it wasnt fair for L&G to rely on the policy limits. When L&G wouldnt 
amend its offer Mr L complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that as Mr L had wanted L&G to cover 
the stolen items under  the policy, it could reasonably be seen to have acted fairly when it 
applied the terms  of the policy to the settlement offer it was prepared to make.  
Mr L said it wasnt fair for him to face such a shortfall all of this time after the theft.  He said it 
wasnt his fault that his wife hadnt  been  added to the policy prior to the theft  she hadnt 
been a UK citizen  then and hed been  advised  by a third-party that this meant she couldnt  
hold or be party to insurance.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that L&Gs restricted  settlement is frustrating for Mr L but as far as I can see it 
has done what he asked  it to; accepted that the stolen items were  covered by the policy  and 
offered settlement for them accordingly. In that case I cant see any good reason  why L&G 
should be prevented from applying  the terms of the policy to any offer made.
L&G didnt, at any stage,  tell Mr L that his wife couldnt be named on the policy. But more  
importantly, at no point  did Mr L tell L&G that he wanted the policy to cover  his wifes items 
that he was looking  after. He seems to have  assumed theyd be covered, which  they were. 
But in making that assumption he seems to have  missed the key policy terms that explain 
L&Gs extent of liability for the covered  items. 
In particular the policy states  that individual valuable items will only be covered up to the 
value of £2,865. At least one item that Mr L was legally  responsible  for was worth much 
more than that. And because Mr L was legally responsible for it, it didnt matter that it 
belonged to his wife, that she wasnt name on the policy or that she didnt live at the property 
So even if Mr L couldnt add his wife to the policy, he could and should  still have  told L&G 
about the items that he felt the policy covered which were worth more  than the limit set by 
the policy. He didnt do so and that failure  to act wasnt the result of anything  L&G had done  
or said, or should  have done  or said but had failed to. Therefore, I cant fairly  and reasonably  
blame it for the shortfall Mr L is now experiencing. 
Ref: DRN14583722 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Legal  & General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1458372