K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  they were badly  advised  when they took out a mortgage with
National Westminster Bank Plc in 2012 as it was unaffordable. They say theyd have been 
in a better financial position if theyd been allowed to port their existing mortgage. And 
theyre unhappy with compensation the banks offered them.
background
Mr and Mrs F and their son took out a mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc
(NatWest) in 2002. In 2009  they transferred the mortgage to another  property.
In around November 2012, Mr and Mrs F wanted to move their mortgage to a retirement  
home. Their son was taken off the mortgage and NatWest was only prepared  to lend to 
them up to age 70. The new mortgage was meant  to run for three years four months.  But by 
the time it was completed, in around  February 2013,  the term of the new mortgage  was set 
to end on a date after Mr and Mrs Fs 70th birthdays.
NatWest carried out a review of a large number  of mortgages that had been  sold to 
customers between 2011 and 2013  where it thought customers  may have been  given  
wrong advice. It found Mr and Mrs F were due redress because  theyd been sold a 
mortgage that took them beyond 70. And in early 2018 it offered them £3,280  for this.
Before they were offered the redress, Mr and Mrs F had been  finding it difficult to make 
their monthly mortgage payments to NatWest and keep up with other  bills. So they decided 
to move house and pay off the balance owed to NatWest of around  £6,800  by taking out a 
loan with another company.
Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy with NatWests  response to their complaint so they brought  it 
to this service. They didnt agree with our investigators view that they wouldve been in a
worse financial position if NatWest had let them port their existing mortgage in 2012.  And 
they thought the redress NatWest had offered them was too low. So their complaint was 
passed to me to review. I recently issued  a provisional decision an extract of which  
follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators view that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint shouldnt be upheld but 
for different reasons,  which Ill explain.
Not all of the documents  relating to Mr and Mrs Fs mortgages from 2002  onwards are 
available now. From the information Ive been  provided with by the parties, the history 
of Mr and Mrs Fs borrowing from NatWest  seems  to be as follows:
 In 2002 Mr and Mrs Fs son made an application for a repayment mortgage of 
£55,000 over 25 years. Mr and Mrs F were  added to the application and the 
mortgage was completed in joint names. Mr and Mrs F wouldve been in their 80s by 
the time the mortgage  came to an end. But their son, the main  applicant, would have 
Ref: DRN15317732been around 52. Interest  was fixed for around  11 years and there was an early 
repayment charge.
 In November 2009  a repayment mortgage for £30,000  was agreed for Mr and Mrs F 
and their son for a new property. The term was 17 years and eight  months.
 In late 2012 Mr and Mrs F applied  for a new repayment mortgage in their names 
only which was completed in February 2013. They borrowed £23,500  over a three 
year four month term.
Mr and Mrs F say theyd always understood their mortgage with NatWest was portable. 
NatWest has confirmed all its mortgages  are portable provided the terms of the 
application for a new mortgage  are the same  as applications for previous mortgages.
Its important  to understand what porting  means.  When someone buys a new property, any 
existing mortgage  has to be redeemed and a new mortgage taken out for the new 
property. Porting allows borrowers to transfer their existing mortgage interest rate product 
subject to meeting  the companys lending criteria at the time of the purchase.
Mr and Mrs F complain  NatWest never told them it wouldnt  be possible for them  to port 
their mortgage in the future.
Theres no mention in the 2002 mortgage offer that the mortgage could be ported. But the
2009 mortgage was for the balance of the original  25 year term and continued in the 
names of Mr and Mrs F and their son. So on balance  I think the 2002  mortgage terms were 
ported in 2009.
The 2009  mortgage offer isnt available. But following the requirements of the rules of 
mortgage regulation Id expect it to have  made  clear  whether or not its terms could be 
ported subject to its lending criteria being met at the time of any application. Since the 
mortgage had already  been ported once, I think the offer wouldve explained the mortgage 
could be ported  subject  to lending criteria.
I wouldnt  expect a lender  to keep all of its customers  updated  about  changes in its lending  
criteria which might affect an application later on, particularly as these will change from 
time to time for commercial reasons. So I dont  think NatWest did anything wrong by not 
telling Mr and Mrs F what their lending criteria were until they made their application in 
2012.
Mrs F spoke to a NatWest mortgage adviser in October 2012. She said Mr and Mrs F 
wanted to port their mortgage to a new property but also wanted to remove their son from 
it as he had a house and mortgage of his own.
Nat West said Mr and Mrs F could keep their existing interest rate. But the mortgage adviser 
explained to Mrs F its policy at the time was generally not to lend beyond the age of 70. Its 
reasonable for a lender  not to want to lend too far into retirement. Theres a risk in doing so 
even where the ratio of the loan to the value of the property is low as in Mr and Mrs Fs 
case. The borrower may not be able to keep up payments for the full term and the lender 
may incur costs in recovering  its loan if, for example, it has to repossess the property and 
sell it. But I do need to consider whether NatWest  applied its policy fairly here.
Ref: DRN15317733If the mortgage had been put in place around the time of the application,  instead  of February 
the following  year, it would have come to an end shortly before Mrs F turned 70, within 
NatWests policy. Initially the application was based  on her income alone. Mrs F was 
working part-time and receiving a pension. She said she thought shed work to around the 
age of 72 but this wasnt certain. If shed  had to give up work sooner  her income wouldve 
reduced considerably  and its likely  she wouldnt have been  able to meet  the monthly 
mortgage payments.
Mr Fs income  was limited  to a pension which I think was unlikely to change significantly in 
the immediate  future.  In the end, even though  Mr F wouldve been around  73 by the time 
the mortgage term ended,  NatWest took his pension  into account in deciding to lend to
Mr and Mrs F, because  it didnt think the loan was affordable on Mrs Fs income alone.
Overall I think NatWests decision about the length of the term was balanced and fair. The 
risks to NatWest  of Mr and Mrs F being  unable  to meet  their monthly  payments  wouldve 
increased the longer the term had been. Id expect  Mr and Mrs Fs pensions  to have 
remained fairly steady. So any change in income  was likely to be the result of Mrs F giving 
up work. There was some  uncertainty about  how long Mrs F would continue to work.  But 
the intended term took her almost to her 70th birthday and, as an exception to NatWests 
usual policy, beyond Mr Fs 70th birthday. And although Mr and Mrs Fs monthly  mortgage  
payments wouldve been lower  if the term had been  longer, they wouldve had to pay more 
interest on the loan.
Even though  Mr and Mrs Fs son wasnt contributing to the mortgage payments under the 
existing mortgage,  he wouldve  have had a liability to pay them if Mr and Mrs F werent able 
to. Removing him from the mortgage wouldve  increased  the risk that payments might  not 
be affordable in the future. So I think it was reasonable in Mr and Mrs Fs case  for NatWest 
to assess, as it did, whether or not the new mortgage would be affordable for them.
The mortgage adviser explained  on the October  2012 call that the mortgage payments
would be around  £630. This was considerably more than Mr and Mrs F had been paying 
but Mrs F said theyd be affordable. They went ahead  with the application  knowing  this. 
And Im satisfied NatWest  carried out an appropriate  assessment of whether or not the 
mortgage was affordable  for Mr and Mrs F based on the information  about their income and 
expenditure they provided to NatWest.
Mr and Mrs F were  able to make regular mortgage payments for the first two years. 
They say their circumstances then changed and, with other bills they had to pay, it 
became unaffordable for them. So they decided to move  house and take out a loan to 
pay off the NatWest mortgage.
Based on the information Mr and Mrs F gave NatWest and the fact theyd managed  to pay 
the mortgage for two years before getting  into difficulties, I think  the mortgage  was 
affordable for them when they took it out. And I dont  think NatWest couldve reasonably 
anticipated their circumstances would change two years later making it unaffordable for 
them. So I dont think  the advice it gave Mr and Mrs F was unreasonable.
Bearing all of the above in mind, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Ive mentioned the global review NatWest carried out in relation to mortgages sold between
2011 and 2013. The outcome of that review for Mr and Mrs F was that the term of their 
mortgage was too long as it went beyond age 70. The compensation NatWests offered 
Ref: DRN15317734relates to that finding, rather than the complaint Mr and Mrs F are now making. Although  I 
dont intend to uphold  their complaint, the offer NatWest has made arising out of its 
review remains available for them to accept if they want to.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
response to my provisional  decision
NatWest hasnt made any comments on my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs F have 
decided to accept  my findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Since neither party  has asked me to 
consider any new information,  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1531773