K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that she was mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy  with critical illness  
cover (CIC) by HSBC  Life (UK) Limited.  
In summary  she says:
The 2018 review  was unfair and the increase was unreasonable.  
At the point of sale she wasnt told the premiums could increase by 75%.   
The policy discriminates on age. She wouldnt have taken this policy if shed known. 
HSBC has been negligent in managing her policy and conducting  reviews.  
background
In 1998, Miss K was advised  to take out a reviewable whole of life policy with CIC for an 
initial monthly premium of £29. 
The policy was first reviewed in 2005. HSBC  says Miss K opted  to increase her premium by 
almost £19. HSBC accepts it failed to review the policy  in 2003 when it ought to have been  
done.   
In 2008, the policy was reviewed again  only three years after the first review, bringing  the 
policy in line with its scheduled reviews. Miss K says she opted to increase  the premium  to 
£36 and maintain  the sum assured. HSBC  says the premiums remained the same. 
In 2013 the policy was reviewed, and both HSBC and Miss K agreed  that no changes were  
necessary.     
The policy was reviewed  again in 2018 and Miss K was given the option to continue to pay 
the same  premium and reduce the sum assured  from £52,239 to £34,819  or increase her 
monthly premium by £36  to almost £85 a month   and maintain the sum assured.  In mid-
2018, the sum assured  was reduced. 
HSBC hasnt upheld  the complaint. In short, it said:
The nature  and operation of the policy was explained to Miss K at the point of sale.
It explained how the premium was calculated  in 2018, and couldnt have predicted 
the level of premium increase back in 1998. 
It wasnt fair to compare the policy value with the premiums  paid,  because  the 
premiums have  to cover the cost of life cover  and CIC. 
For delayed review  it offered £100 compensation for any trouble and upset caused.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  He 
wasnt satisfied that the policy was mis-sold or that it had been mismanaged. He thought  the 
premiums were paid in to the policy in the way that HSBC was entitled to pay them  in.  
Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators  view.  In summary she said: 
The 2018 review  is an error.  HSBC  hasnt applied  the increased  premiums paid. The 
policy value should be more than the premiums paid in. And it has omitted to pay in 
around £2,000  into the policy. 
Ref: DRN10067422From  the outset the policy  has been  unfit for purpose, and continues to be, because  
of the way HSBC  have  mismanaged  the policy. And it will become unaffordable due 
to HSBCs errors. 
The policy started in 1998 so the first review  should have been in 2003  however the 
policy wasnt reviewed until 2005.  
After the first review  she paid a higher premium  around £48 a month  but only the 
original premium  of around £29  was added  to the policy.  
The figures in the summary document, dated  6 April 2018, are all incorrect, not just 
the total premiums  paid.  
HSBC cant show that the figures  in the 2018 review were  based on anything  other 
than the original £29 premium  a month. Therefore, all of its review  details are 
incorrect. 
HSBC have been neglectful in the management of the policy  and for not having  
documents relating to the original  sale. 
Shes lost all confidence in HSBC because  of all the errors  made  over the last 20 
years and doesnt expect  it to properly administer the policy any longer. 
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. 
As no agreement can be reached  the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for substantially the same 
reasons. Im not going  to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Im not satisfied  that the reviewable  whole of life policy was mis-sold. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ks strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Miss K and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Miss K is complaining about is known as a 
reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, but is instead designed 
to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
Ref: DRN10067423At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
So illustrations can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums  are likely to be, they 
offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased cost of the premiums.    
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. So, 
its not practicable to invest more  of the premium  and this may explain why, after the first 
review in 2005 the entirety of the higher premium wasnt  paid into the policy,  and why she 
thinks the policy value  ought to be more  than the premiums paid in. 
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and actually increases with age. This doesnt  mean  
the policy is age discriminatory it just takes account of the higher risk the insurer will have 
resulting from customers increased age. In this case the hope is that the investment element  
will grow  enough to fund the shortfall  when the policy reaches the point  that the cost of cover 
becomes greater than the premium. But again  there  are no guarantees. 
Its not uncommon to use a consumers general  attitude to risk, albeit in respect of a different  
product, as an indication of the level of risk that they might be willing to tolerate in something 
else. Im mindful many businesses  call this a holistic approach. In this instance, Miss Ks 
attitude to risk was only relevant in relation to the investment element of the policy.  I dont 
think the defensive  fund was unsuitable  in this case. 
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats why its virtually 
impossible to predict future premium increases and percentages. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. This explains the slight premium  increase  initially and then larger  increase in 2018, 
20 years  from when  the policy started. 
In light of this, I also dont think that Miss Ks calculations,  and assumptions,  about the future 
reductions in the sum assured are very helpful.  
Ive carefully considered  what Miss K said she was (and wasnt)  told about the policy when it 
was arranged. But having considered everything  she and the HSBC have said, I dont think  
her comments alone are enough for me to say the policy was mis-sold. I must take into 
account the explanatory literature that HSBC says she was given when the policy started. 
This explains the premiums were  reviewable and were subject to increase. So on balance, 
Im satisfied the policy allowed the business to do what it was doing and that it didnt mislead  
Miss K about how it would work.
In other  words Im satisfied that she was made  aware that the policy  was reviewable  and that 
the premiums were likely  to increase to maintain the level of cover she wanted. 
 
Ref: DRN10067424I appreciate Miss K is dissatisfied with the answers  from HSBC but I dont think  a business is 
generally required to disclose information that it considers commercially sensitive. So it may 
not be able to give Miss K what she wants in terms of the actuarial calculations.  That said, 
HSBC has apologised  for quoting the wrong figure for the premiums  paid. It has recently 
provided the correct  figure which is £10,108.24 which suggests it wasnt  only paying in the 
initial monthly premium from 1998. I note HSBC has confirmed  that this error hasnt affected 
the reviews.  
On balance, the recommendation met the recorded  objective, and Im unable to say the 
recommendation was wrong or unsuitable. 
I appreciate Miss K will be unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Miss K 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1006742