K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the charges applied  to his account by Santander  UK Plc (Santander) 
for unpaid  cheques and direct  debits.
background
Mr S opened  a business banking account with Santander in June 2018.  Santander  have 
provided details  of seven complaints logged with them between August and November 2018 
about unpaid direct debits and cheques. 
For complaints made between August  and October 2018, Santander agreed to refund  the 
charges. Santander  also paid Mr S between £25- 50 on some  complaints for misinformation 
provided about Mr Ss account activity. Although Mr Ss charges were  refunded,  he was also 
told that he must ensure his account  has enough money to cover any cheques or direct  
debits leaving his account to avoid future charges. Mr S was also made aware that when 
money is paid in around the same time that payments are due to go out, Santander can 
arrange to contact the payments team to speed  up the credit into his account. He was also 
told that this process  is an exceptions  process, and is not guaranteed.
For recent unpaid cheque charges applied in October and November 2018, Santander told 
Mr S that they wouldnt be refunding these charges. Santander explained to Mr S that he 
had been told on several occasions that his account  must have enough  money, and previous 
refunds had been agreed as a gesture  of goodwill only. Santander agreed to pay £50 for 
misinformation given  to Mr S during a call on 22 November. 
Mr S was unhappy with Santanders explanation,  and brought  his complaint to this service. 
The investigator found that Santander  had acted fairly.  The investigator also found that the 
compensation for the misinformation given  to Mr S was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings.  Mr S says that Santanders process of not 
guaranteeing payments made  on the same day has caused him stress  and inconvenience.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr S. Having reviewed the case, I think  Santander  have acted fairly, and I 
wont be recommending  Santander do anything more.
Mr S feels  strongly that Santander have acted unfairly by charging  him for unpaid cheques, 
when these charges  had previously been refunded. Mr S also says that hes been  caused 
additional stress and inconvenience in having to contact Santander several times a day to 
check his account  activity for the day. Mr S is frustrated that even  when payments have 
been made on the same day, Santander havent  processed them  in time.  This has led to 
charges being  applied  to his account. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ss account  activity,  and in particular the charges applied from August to 
November 2018.  Ive also looked  at the complaint notes showing the information given to 
Mr S following  each  of his complaints. Ive seen that for the earlier complaints where 
Santander agreed to refund charges, Mr S was clearly informed of the process for making 
Ref: DRN13380542payments, and how to avoid charges  in future. I think Santander  clearly  told Mr S that 
although they have a process which allows the payments  to be dealt with as a priority,  this is 
an exceptions process,  and so payment into Mr Ss account cannot be guaranteed.  Mr S 
was told that the only way to avoid charges being applied to his account is to ensure that 
sufficient money is available in good  time before a payment  is due out. 
Although Santander agreed to refund unpaid direct debit and cheque charges, they didnt 
have to do this. From  review of the case notes it looks  like Santanders decision was a 
gesture of goodwill, and intended to resolve Mr Ss complaint as a one-off only. Mr S was 
told each time that he must make sure his account  has enough money;  otherwise charges 
may be applied  in future. 
I appreciate Mr S often  made payment on the same  day, however it doesnt  look like money 
was in his account ready  to be taken out at the time the cheque was written. Mr S would 
often call Santander to pay in enough to allow a cheque  to be paid, and then call back  to 
confirm his payment  had gone through without any charges. Whilst this method worked for 
Mr S I think information given to Mr S during early complaint calls made it clear that enough 
money had to be available in good  time. By paying in money  after being advised of a debit 
due that day, there was always a risk that unpaid charges  would be applied. As Mr S was 
told of this risk during  various calls with Santander, I cant  say theyve have acted unfairly  by 
applying unpaid cheque  and direct debit charges. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1338054