K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr R took out in 1996.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr R didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that he never  knew that PPI was sold to him. If hed have known, he 
wouldve made a claim  when he was made redundant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs complaint.
FICL doesnt have  a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a copy of Mr Rs application form. But, taking into account  
what we know about applications at this time,  there wouldve been a separate section about 
PPI and Mr R wouldve been required to tick a box, or to sign,  to confirm that he required 
cover. Mr R wouldve had the opportunity to review  the form before he signed  it. Mr R says 
he didnt know he had the policy. And I accept  thats possible. But its also possible that Mr R 
chose to take the PPI and, over time, forgot that he had it. On balance, I think  its most likely 
FICL made Mr R aware he had a choice about buying the policy and he chose to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of the PPI would have  put 
him off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account that Mr R recalls  he wouldve  received at least  six months full pay 
from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. But the PPI wouldve 
covered him until he returned to work, so couldve been a useful benefit in addition to his 
existing arrangements. 
Ref: DRN15199062Ive also considered very carefully what Mr R has told us about what happened in 2010.  He 
told us he was made redundant and that he struggled to meet the repayments  on his card.  
This was obviously a difficult time for him and hes told us how the letters  he received from 
the lender, and its debt collection agency, chasing payment made him feel.
I think Mr R was unaware at that time that he had PPI, or at least hed forgotten  about it. 
I think he wouldve tried to make  a claim under the terms of the policy if hed realised this.
The lender  didnt mention PPI to him. Its possible Mr R may be able to make a retrospective 
claim for unemployment. I leave him to decide  whether he wishes to pursue this, and / or to 
complain to the lender about  not having  been  told then about possibly claiming on the PPI 
policy. But Im dealing  only with the sale of the PPI in 1996  and as Ive said, on balance,  
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to him. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I cant see that Mr R has lost out because of anything  
that FICL  may have done wrong at the point of sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519906