K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) reduced  the credit  limit on his credit  card without 
advising him. As a result he went over his limit and incurred charges.  This led to negative 
information on his credit file. He would like his credit file amended. And charges refunded.
background
Mr C says TSB reduced his credit  limit at various points but he never went  over the limit set. 
But he says TSB further reduced his credit limit in 2017 by £50 but didnt advise him. As a 
result he says he went over his limit and incurred charges. 
In addition he says TSB reported him to the Credit  Reference Agencies (CRAs) for non 
payment which  impacted  on a mortgage application  he had agreed in principle.
Finally he says TSB took too much  time to resolve  his complaint constantly sending  him 4 
week holding letters saying it was still looking into his complaint.
TSB said that Mr C complained to the bank  on 25 July 2017 and it sent its final response  
letter on 28 July 2017. It said it decreased  Mr Cs credit limit in line with its terms and 
conditions. And wrote  to advise Mr C of this on 24 April 2017.Fianlly that charges were 
applied in line with its terms  and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found that TSB had written to Mr C to advise 
him of the reduction in his credit  limit. It was within its right to apply the charges that it did. 
And it had tried to be supportive of Mr Cs financial situation. Finally  that it had a duty to 
report accurate information to the Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs)
Mr C didnt accept this view. He said TSB had told him it hadnt sent a letter but had sent an 
online banking message and which showed on its system as unopened.  He added  he hadnt 
found TSB to be helpful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C feels strongly  about this. So I appreciate he is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  
the same  view as our investigator.
Mr Cs complaint falls into four parts  the reduction of his credit limit, the reporting on his 
credit file, the time it took TSB to respond to his complaint and how TSB has treated him. So 
I will deal with each of these separately.
Firstly Mr C says TSB didnt advise him of the change in his credit limit. He says TSB 
admitted to him in a phone  call it didnt send  him a letter but an online message to his 
account. He says TSB told him the message showed as unopened  on its system.
Mr C has suggested we listen to phone calls between himself and TSB.  Our investigator did 
request these but due to the time that has passed  TSB no longer has these for me to listen  
to.
Ref: DRN14731742So I have  carefully  considered the other evidence I have. TSB cant show , from its systems, 
that it send a letter to Mr C on 24 April 2017 advising of the change  in Mr Cs credit limit with 
effect from 1 May 2017.But it has explained  that these letters are automatically generated 
seven days prior to such a change. That persuades me that in all probability TSB did send 
such a letter.
However even if it didnt or if Mr C didnt  get it Mr C has told us that in a phone  call TSB told 
him that it had records of an online message  being  sent about  the change  in his credit  limit. 
Although Mr C also told us that according  to TSB this message  showed as unopened  it does 
show that TSB sent it. I dont know why Mr C didnt open it. But I dont think  its reasonable 
to expect TSB to have  systems to follow up unopened  messaged.
Finally I have considered  TSBs terms and conditions. These do allow for changes  to credit 
limits on account. So I dont think TSB has done  anything wrong here.  In my view it was able 
to make the changes it did. And, although there might be some  dispute as to how,  I do 
believe it did inform Mr C.
The second  part of Mr Cs complaint relates to information on his credit file. Mr C says a 
mortgage offer has been withdrawn due to adverse  information on his credit file which  meant 
he wasnt able to progress a house purchase. 
I cant be sure why Mr Cs mortgage  application  was withdrawn. He hasnt given us any 
specific evidence to show this was solely as a result  of the information  TSB recorded on his 
credit file. Mortgage lenders will look at a range of factors when offering mortgages so I cant 
know for sure the reasons  behind the withdrawal of the mortgage offer. But even if the 
information recorded by TSB did impact on this businesses to have  a responsibility to record  
accurate information  on credit files. And I havent  seen any evidence to show  that the 
information TSB recorded was incorrect. So on that basis I dont believe that TSB has done  
anything wrong.
Thirdly Mr C isnt happy with the time it took TSB to respond to his complaint. TSB says its 
records show Mr C complained on 25 July 2017. I can see it sent a final response letter  on 
28 July 2017.  Mr C raised more concerns in September 2017 which TSB responded to on 1 
November 2017.  We would normally expect businesses to respond to consumers within  
eight weeks and on these  occasions from what I have seen TSB met our expected response 
times.
However from the information  TSB sent us I can see Mr C rang TSB on 19 June  2018.  TSB 
sent a letter  the same day acknowledging  the phone  call saying it would review his 
complaint. The next entry  on Mr Cs records shows a note of a further phone call dated  15 
February 2019  this seems to be an internal note from someone  who Mr C contacted  as he 
wasnt happy about the time taken for TSB to respond to him after his phone  call of 19 June 
2018. 
I asked TSB for copies of all of its correspondence  to Mr C. The last letter it sent us a copy  
of was the one dated 19 June 2018.  That and the entry in the customer  notes seem  to show 
that TSB didnt follow through investigating  his issues as it said it would in its letter.  Mr C has 
however told us he kept on getting holding letters from TSB. So it seems there was some 
ongoing communication from TSB.
I have considered the impact of this on Mr C.  I do think  TSB should have followed up its 
letter of 19 June 2018 with Mr C. But looking at the customer notes it seems to me the points 
Ref: DRN14731743Mr C raised in the phone  call  the reduction  in his credit limit and impact on a mortgage  
application  are ones he had already raised  and had a response to. 
The only new point is that Mr C said he wanted to go to Court   but that would  have been  his 
choice if he wanted  to do so. There doesnt  seem to be any new information that I feel could 
reasonably have led Mr C to expect any different response from TSB to what  which  he had 
already had. 
I do appreciate TSBs lack of response may have caused some Mr C some distress.  But the 
only action open  to me would be to consider if any compensation were appropriate. In this 
case I dont think it is for the reasons I explained   Mr C didnt raise anything new and I dont 
feel he could have  reasonably expected TSB to have responded any differently from how it 
had already done so. Also although  TSB hasnt given us copies of any holding letters Mr C 
has said he did keep on getting  them.  I have no reason to disbelieve  Mr C telling us he got 
these. So if that were the case  I do believe  TSB did keep in touch with him.
Finally Mr C isnt happy with the way that TSB treated him. We do expect banks to respond 
positively and sympathetically when consumers are having financial problems. But this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  banks have to waive or refund all charges. And each situation is 
different.
From TSBs call notes calls I think TSB was trying to help Mr C  charges and interest  were  
discussed, an income and expenditure plan was carried out but Mr C seems  to have 
terminated these  calls. When TSB tried to call back it wasnt  able to get through  to Mr C to 
progress matters. At one point it did offer a £60 refund to cover some  of the charges but it 
seems Mr C declined this as he wanted a full refund of all charges. I do feel that TSB has 
tried to help Mr C with his financial situation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1473174