K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about faults with a vehicle he leased through a Hire Purchase Agreement 
with LeasePlan  UK Limited  (LeasePlan).  He would like to be reimbursed for costs  incurred  
whilst the vehicle was being repaired.
background
Mr H says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with LeasePlan in September 2016. The 
agreement was for 36 months.
Mr H says the vehicle  broke down  on 27 April 2018  taking  approximately  five weeks  to 
repair. And the turbo had to be replaced.  Mr H says he was told the vehicle was ready to 
collect on 7 June 2018 but after driving  it only five miles  it broke down again this time 
requiring a new engine.  
Mr H says he wasnt told his vehicle was ready  for collection until November 2018. As a 
result Mr H says he was without a vehicle for considerable  period of time during which he 
had to get himself  another vehicle.  And he had to pay £300 road tax.
LeasePlan said Mr H was told his vehicle was ready  for collection on 17 July 2018 but Mr H 
refused to collect it. It didnt think that it was liable to cover any of Mr Hs costs as it terms 
and conditions didnt  include  this cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. He accepted Mr H had been  without his vehicle for 
some time and this caused him some inconvenience. But noted  Mr H couldve collected  he 
vehicle sooner but hadnt done  so. He didnt feel it was fair for LeasePlan to refund  the road 
tax Mr H paid in August  2018 as his vehicle  was ready for collection  from July 2018. He 
recommended that LeasePlan  refund three monthly payments. And pay £100 for distress  
and inconvenience.
Neither Mr H nor LeasePlan  accepted  this view.
Leaseplan offered to pay £100  in High Street vouchers for distress  and inconvenience.  It 
didnt feel it was fair to refund any monthly  payments. It said Mr H couldve collected his 
vehicle sooner. And its terms  and conditions made it clear it didnt cover loss of use.
Mr H felt £100 compensation wasnt  sufficient. He said he had to pay for two vehicles for 
seven months and estimated his loss to be £2323 that he wanted refunded.
As neither side agreed the decision  has come  for an Ombudsmans  final view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there were  problems  with Mr Hs vehicle that led 
to repairs in April and June 2018.  Or that there was a period  of time when Mr H was without 
a vehicle  although the exact period of time is in dispute.
Ref: DRN13353392I understand that LeasePlan  has now recovered the vehicle.  And it ended  Mr Hs contract on 
5 May 2019.  Mr H hasnt  specifically complained  about anything  to do with the termination  of 
his contract. So I am not going to cover  that in this view.  
The main  issue for me to consider  seems to be the appropriate level,  if any, of any refund of 
payments made or compensation. 
Mr H has quoted a figure  of losses of £2,323. He hasnt broken this down. He has told us he 
borrowed a vehicle from a friend  paying  approximately £100 a day. But he hasnt  evidenced 
this. He says he then bought a new vehicle. I can see from our notes Mr H offered to provide 
evidence of getting another vehicle. Whilst we dont  seem to have pursued Mr H for 
evidence of getting another vehicle I have no reason to disbelieve he wouldve had to make  
other arrangements particularly as the vehicle  was for business use.
LeasePlan doesnt feel any refund of payments  is applicable as its contract terms preclude 
that. And its says Mr H added to any losses by not collecting  his vehicle when he was told it 
was ready  to collect on 17 July 2018.  
Ive seen the contract Mr H signed  and I accept, as LeasePlan  has pointed  out, that the 
contract states LeasePlan has no liability for any loss of use of a vehicle. 
Its not clear to me when Mr H was made aware his vehicle was ready  for collection.  
LeasePlans customer notes show an entry in August  2018  confirming Mr H queried his road 
tax charge as the vehicle had been  in the garage for five months. That would seem to 
indicate to me that Mr H wasnt  aware  his vehicle  was ready for collection. And LeasePlan 
hasnt given us any evidence to confirm that Mr H was told the vehicle was ready on 17 July 
2018.
What isnt in dispute is that Mr H was without a vehicle for at least three months from April to 
July 2018. I think  three  consecutive months without a vehicle is a long time and would cause 
a considerable  degree of inconvenience.  
But I also think Mr H couldve been  more proactive in chasing  up getting his vehicle back.  I 
think its possible he decided he no longer wanted the vehicle, so went ahead  and made  
other arrangements.
Taking all of this information into account  it feels to me that our adjudicators  
recommendation of a refund of three  months  payments and £100  compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  is reasonable. 
I dont think its reasonable that the £100 is paid, as LeasePlan suggested, in High Street 
vouchers. It should be a simple payment of £100 for Mr H to use as he wishes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  LeasePlan UK Limited should:-
-Refund Mr H three  monthly  payments
-Pay Mr H £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN13353393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1335339