K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) didnt act fairly or reasonably 
when dealing with his porting application. He wants part of the early  repayment charge 
(ERC) he paid refunded, £250  cashback, interest  and compensation.
background 
Mr A had a buy-to-let mortgage with TMW, which if repaid early meant hed have  to pay an 
ERC. Mr A later wanted to transfer  (port) the mortgage to another property which he 
already owned  (and remortgaging) and applied to do so through a broker (who  initially  
applied for a normal remortgage  with cashback,  but then changed the product). He said 
TMW made  mistakes and the process didnt  go as quickly as he wished. 
In the end, Mr A ported part of the mortgage and had to pay an ERC, which he felt was too 
high as hed made overpayments, both just before  and after the redemption statement was 
prepared. Mr A also said he expected to receive  £250 cashback and didnt receive  it, and 
shouldnt pay ten days worth of interest  for the mortgage as hed delayed all his related 
arrangements due to TMW  completing  his mortgage late.
Mr A complained to TMW. It said Mr A wasnt entitled to cashback as it wasnt  in the 
mortgage offer that he accepted. TMW pointed out that initially Mr As broker  hadnt applied  
to port a mortgage, and when the application was changed, this caused  some confusion for 
which TMW apologised.  It also said that how the mortgage monies were to be used on 
completion wasnt a matter on which it could advise, that interest was charged when the 
money was released  to Mr As solicitor, and that the ERC claimed was correct.  TMW  paid 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused Mr A due to the confusion and 
mistakes it made during the process.
Mr A complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that part of the issue  was that Mr A made  
large overpayments just before and after TMW issued its redemption  statement, so the 
overpayment wasnt taken  into account  and the ERC stated was too high. She said shed 
listened to the calls and felt TMW  hadnt  been clear  about how much actually due to it, and 
asked TMW to check its calculations. The adjudicator set out the ERC calculations and 
found that TMW owed  Mr A a refund of £1,204.83, together with simple interest of 8% a year 
from 25 October 2018 to the date of refund. She also found that Mr As broker  didnt apply in 
the end for the product with cashback  (having  initially done so, the product was then 
changed to a non-cashback one), so TMW wasnt unfair or unreasonable  in not paying £250  
to Mr A. 
The adjudicator also found that TMWs time to deal with the porting  application  and produce 
an offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She said though  that TMWs failure to 
deal with the whole situation better  was poor service as it accepted.  The adjudicator  said the 
£200 compensation paid for Mr As trouble and upset was fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagreed with part of the adjudicators view. He accepted  her findings about the ERC, 
the cashback and £200 compensation for trouble and upset. But Mr A said that the 
adjudicator was incorrect about the interest (for which hed paid ten days  worth until he 
could complete his full transaction). He thought that this should be refunded  as TMW caused  
completion to be delayed due to its errors.
Ref: DRN14090942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW wasnt advising Mr A about his mortgage  arrangements; Mr A was being advised by a 
broker (and about legal issues by a solicitor).  Its fair and reasonable for TMW  to make this 
point to Mr A when he called with questions about  the process in my view.
Theres no dispute that the ERC was incorrectly calculated and Mr A should receive the 
£1,204.83 overpayment back with simple interest  at the rate of 8% a year from 25 October 
2018 to the date of refund. Im going to require TMW does this and so uphold the complaint.
This leaves  the issues of cashback, interest  paid by Mr A, and compensation for trouble and 
upset. I dont think Mr A is entitled  to cashback as ultimately he didnt  apply and pursue an 
application for that product and it wasnt in the offer he accepted. 
And while I appreciate  Mr A wanted to complete  his porting application and the connected 
remortgage on the same day, it was a complex series of commercial transactions  and I dont 
think TMW caused unnecessary delays (see below), though  it made mistakes and put them 
right. Its part of the legal  terms and conditions of the mortgage  that interest is paid from 
when the mortgage money  is released to Mr As solicitor (and I note Mr A is also a legal 
professional); I dont  think its fair or reasonable for me to require the legal  terms are set 
aside. TMW was required to provide the mortgage monies when requested  by Mr As 
solicitor under the terms of the mortgage  offer; it did this. Mr A wanted TMW to complete 
sooner rather than later, but it was open  to him to ask for a delay to adjust to his new plans.
Turning to compensation for trouble and upset, the parties agree that TMW  didnt give good  
service to Mr A. The confusion over the amount of the ERC wasnt fair or reasonable. I can 
see that the part-porting application didnt complete when Mr A wanted it to do so (though  
the funds were released the next working  day),  but  the time taken  to process the mortgage  
offers, allowing for the changes that took place and the errors by third parties,  was in my 
view fair and reasonable and within the standard industry timescales.  TMW took action to 
ensure Mr A was able to port part of the mortgage, despite the complexity.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but such  compensation is based  on 
the trouble and upset suffered, not the nature of the poor service itself.  Mr A has adopted a 
pragmatic view and accepts that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. I am of the 
same view; I accept Mr A did suffer trouble, upset and inconvenience  but £200  fairly and 
reasonably reflects  this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and TMW should pay Mr A £1,204.83, 
together with interest as outlined above.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1409094