K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch and the policy provided cover for accident,  
sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay 
£250 a month towards Mrs Ps mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost £12.45  a month. 
At the time,  Mrs P was employed as a finance  officer. She told us she was not entitled  to any 
additional sick pay with the job. We asked about her health  at the time of the PPI sale and 
Mrs P mentioned she had undergone two procedures during childbirth in 1976, and again 
1981. Ive considered these issues with care, but I note these medical procedures both pre-
date the PPI sale by some years. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account opened in 1996 and 
closed 1999. Mrs Ps representative has made lengthy and substantial  representations on 
her behalf.  I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully.  
In summary,  Mrs Ps representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs P and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN15015622Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ps case.  
 
Ref: DRN15015623Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  We no longer have access  to 
much documentation  from this 1996  sale. However,  given when it was, this isnt unusual,  or 
indeed, unreasonable. Nevertheless, Ive seen quite a few very similar sales  to this one. And 
my experience is that consumers, like Mrs P, would have been given an option  about taking 
out PPI with their mortgage. She would also have been aware of the money leaving her 
account to pay for the PPI premiums  and I think she would  have  been  required to authorise 
this.
Ref: DRN15015624Mrs P says she wasnt given any paperwork or documents  about  the policy. But these 
events were two decades ago; theres  no dispute  now that PPI was sold,  so Im afraid I think 
its quite unlikely that the insurer wouldnt have  provided Mrs P with a schedule of the PPI 
cover shed been sold. Again, my experience is that she would have been given something 
explaining the cover, who was covered and how much it cost.
Taking everything into account,  I think its much more likely that Mrs P knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax concedes this was an advised  sale and this corresponds  with my experience  of these 
types of mortgage  PPI sales. This means Halifax had to advise Mrs P with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I cant say what steps  Halifax took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs P. It seems she cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  probably had some limited  information about 
Mrs Ps financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs P would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Mrs P had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs P given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs P had a need for the policy   she would not have received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness and her redundancy  benefits  are likely to be 
limited. The policy would  therefore  have helped Mrs P manage the consequences if 
she was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs P;
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs P. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ps employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And other than the medical procedures she mentioned  from 1976  
and 1981, she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions, as defined in 
the policy rulkes, that could have reasonably affected her ability to claim on this 
policy.
Ref: DRN15015625-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mrs Ps 
circumstances.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs P be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mrs Ps 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mrs P be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs P would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs P Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs P all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN15015626-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs P? To what extent did Mrs P 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs P, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs P would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ps circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN15015627As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs P was given about the cost was most 
likely to have been clear enough in my view. But the information about other aspects of the 
policy, such as limitations and exclusions possibly wasnt  as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told her the exact premium at the point Mrs P applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mrs P would have been told the cost before 
the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs  were  
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs P would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury that 
advice, treatment or counselling was sought  from a doctor  during  the period of 12 
months before the start date where  that sickness, disease, condition or injury  
recurred within 24 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs P pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs P wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs P didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions (as defined by the policy) and was in permanent employment. 
So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P 
Ref: DRN15015628from taking out the policy,  Mrs P, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs P was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs P that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but she 
had only limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs P would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs P be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs P was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN15015629proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs P, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs P and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1501562