K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
over the phone in 2012 when Ms K activated  her card. Ms K says Capital One (Europe) plc 
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms K already had the credit  card before she took out the PPI. So she knew she didnt 
have to take the PPI. 
The call scripts in use at the time made  it clear  that Ms K didnt have to take out the PPI 
and required her to confirm she wanted  it. I appreciate that Ms K doesnt recall  that 
happening, but I think it is more likely than not that she agreed to take it out. 
Capital One didnt  recommend  the PPI to Ms K so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Ms K got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Ms K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
While Ms K had some sick pay available to her through her work,  I dont  think that was 
enough to make her think the PPI wasnt worthwhile.  The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months if shed  had to claim, which is at least  twice as long as her sick pay wouldve 
lasted. 
Ms K says her husband wouldve helped out if shed been unable  to work, but such  help 
wouldnt be guaranteed, as it would  depend  on his circumstances at the time.
This means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms K because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms K about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms K, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN11317632To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ms K has said she should receive  all the commission and profit  share back because she 
says she wouldnt have  taken PPI if shed been told that Capital One would receive this. But 
Capital One has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. And Im not persuaded she 
wouldve declined the cover if shed been  given more information about  the commission and 
profit share Capital  One would receive.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Ms Ks particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Capital  One should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. 
But I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been  made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Capital One to do anything more.   
Ive thought about everything Ms K has said. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms K any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1131763