K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Shawbrook  Bank  Limited  (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system she says was misrepresented  to her by the supplier.
Mrs W is represented by a claims  management  company (the CMC).
background
In or around February 2014,  Mrs W was contacted by a representative  of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar  panel  system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited  by a representative  of P, Mrs W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The system was 
subsequently installed.
In December 2016 the CMC made  a claim on Mrs Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs W to enter  into the contract  with P. The CMC said 
the following  misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,240.00 to 
mislead Mrs W  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was £14,184.00; 
Mrs W was promised a tax-free  year 1 benefit  £688.06 but it was not explained that 
after making the monthly repayments there would  be an annual deficit £574.38;  
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments  alone; 
the system would  not cost her a penny; and,
she would make savings on her electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mrs W and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section  75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC  provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  dated 
December 2013,  copies of marketing material used  by P, a job advert for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mrs Ws electricity bills and FIT statements.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, it didnt agree the system  had been  misrepresented  to 
Mrs W or that there  were  any other  reasons for the claim  to be upheld.  In summary, it said:
the contract P had provided  Mrs W set out the expected  total returns from the system  
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made  it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there  would  be a cost involved; 
the contract with P showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one was £676.25 
and the loan agreement clearly stated  the loan repayments were £78.80 or £945.56 
Ref: DRN11780162annual, so it was clear there would be a deficit;  
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
the system wouldnt increase Mrs Ws electricity  consumption, and any increase in 
her electricity  bills would  be due to a change in lifestyle; and
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to P for introducing Mrs W to it.
Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered  all the information  and 
evidence provided,  our investigator thought  the benefits of the system were misrepresented 
as the system is underperforming compared  to the estimations provided at the point of sale.
The investigator recommended  that Shawbrook should reduce the total amount payable  by 
Mrs W so that it equalled  the benefits the system would generate over the original  loan term.
Shawbrook and the CMC did not respond, so the case has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook  agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mrs W could claim against  
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same  
way she could have  claimed against  P, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section 75 into account  
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mrs W and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
Ref: DRN11780163(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and the quote Mrs W received from P. Ive considered 
these in detail  and whether they support P having  made the alleged representations.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Mrs Ws recollection of the sale.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This detailed 
that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting  via email.  Based on our experience  of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied  that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mrs W and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened  in this complaint. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mrs W has alleged  that she was told her monthly  loan repayments  would be covered, or 
self-funded by her FIT payments.  Ive considered the quote that was provided  by P and 
considered whether this supports what she says she was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page five of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs W could expect  to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote. These tables  are set out as 
follows:
Ref: DRN11780164I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mrs W could expect to receive 
a total income  in year one of £408.67  from her FIT.
The quote  goes  on to look at the electricity savings Mrs W could expect  from the system as 
well as any savings they would make from taking out any optional extras including  a voltage 
optimiser. The expected  year one electricity savings  is £181.79 and the combined income 
and savings in year one is shown as £676.25.  This is shown  in a table titled  Putting it all 
together. All of these tables  are on page five of the quote.
There is another page titled  system performance and returns  with a further series of tables. 
Theres a section titled repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months,  120 
months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the length of the 
loan that Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there  are 180 monthly 
payments of £78.80 due and compares  the overall expected grand total from the system,  
averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
The table is shown  as:
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mrs W could  expect  to receive  from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected  contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare the FIT income to her monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income  and any additional  savings, would not be immediately  sufficient to cover 
her monthly loan repayments. Therefore,  Im not satisfied that she was told that her monthly 
loan repayments  would  be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Mrs W has said that the cost of the system  was documented  as £7,240.00. She has said that 
this was done to mislead her as this figure  did not include any interest  associated  with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £14,184.00.
Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Mrs W makes  it clear that the cost of the system is 
£7,240.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which  sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £7,240.00. But this goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£14,184.00.
And as the quote provided  by P is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents  (the quote  and the credit 
agreement), made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,240.00, it would cost 
Mrs W more than this as she had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether  P told Mrs W that the system would not cost her a penny, and that 
she could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £688.06.
Ref: DRN11780165Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format, comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mrs W was expected  to have made  a 
loss of £22.45 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £18.92 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until year seven was repaid that the expected benefits would exceed 
her monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation,  it wouldnt have been until around  year 
14 that she would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses  and the system 
would be paying  for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mrs W was told that the system would not cost her a penny. 
I think the quote is clear  that there  would be a difference  between  her expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mrs W were told that theyd receive  a year one benefit of £676.25 as this 
was the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity  savings on her 
energy bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded 
that Mrs W was led to believe  that shed receive  this sum in her hand. Im satisfied that the 
quote makes it clear that shed have to make  loan repayments and overall there would  be a 
deficit.
I also accept that Mrs W was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the loan 
term. The estimated performance over 20 years page of the quote  has a table  detailing  the 
performance over 20 years.
This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits  that Mrs W could expect to receive would 
have exceeded  the total amount  payable under her loan agreement. This table also sets out 
the panel degradation  rate so Im satisfied that P made her aware  that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
So, Ive gone  on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract  between P and Mrs W. The quote sets out that the system  is expected  to 
produce 2,750 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income  Mrs W could  expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments  and savings in her energy bills.
Ive calculated that, on average, the system  should  generate 7.53 kWh of energy  each  day. 
Mrs W has provided her FIT statements which show  that between March  2014 and 
December 2020  the system generated 14,537.39 kWh which equates  to 5.94 kWh a day or 
2,168.10 kWh a year. This is significantly less that the estimations provided at the point of 
sale.
Ref: DRN11780166Im satisfied that the estimated  generation, and the related FIT payment and electricity 
savings, would have  induced Mrs W into entering the contract. The actual generation and 
therefore income are significantly  lower  than she was promised so she has suffered a loss. 
Shawbrook have not responded to the investigators  assessment with any explanation or 
reason as to why the system is significantly underperforming. Therefore, based  on the 
information we have on file I think its more likely than not that the system is underperforming 
and this amounts  to a mis-representation. So, I think this case should be upheld. 
I note the CMC has raised some additional points.  But, whilst I have considered these, 
having already  established there  was most  likely a misrepresentation at the point of sale, it is 
not necessary  to discuss these points in this decision.
Ill go on to explain what I think fair compensation should be. 
Fair compensation
Our role is to resolve individual disputes  between  consumers  and businesses  fairly, 
reasonably, quickly  and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact  
science and it is more  difficult  in a case like this where solar panels  have been installed at 
the property.
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit  agreement, remove  the solar panels and give 
Mrs W a refund of all the payments made (less  any financial benefit  gained from the 
installation of the solar  panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the 
panels are working  and generating green  energy. I think theres an alternative that would put 
Mrs W in a fair position.
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mrs W doesnt  suffer  a 
financial loss, which in my view would  mean  that the solar  panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 15-year loan term  in summary, my aim is to make  sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal  to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed  savings  and income  to Mrs W from the solar panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan, so she pays  no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system.  This 
will put Mrs W in a cost neutral position over the loan term, meaning that shes  not 
disadvantaged by the mis-representation.
Normally, by recalculating  the loan this way, Mrs Ws monthly  repayments  would reduce, 
meaning that she would has paid more  each month  than she should have resulting in an 
overpayment balance.  And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly  
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  So, I think the fairest  resolution would be to let Mrs W 
have the following options as to how she would like the overpayments  to be used:
a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly  payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly  payment, based  on the recalculated loan, until the end of the 
loan term,
Ref: DRN11780167c)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and she continues  to make her 
current monthly payment  resulting  in the loan finishing  early,  or
d)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and she pays a new monthly  
payment until the end of the loan term. 
I also think that Shawbrook should  pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the manner  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1178016