K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that American International Group UK Limited  (AIG) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under  a personal accident insurance policy. He 
wants matters put right.
background 
Mr C had a personal accident  insurance  policy. He was in active military service and 
suffered a back injury  in August  2014 during a training exercise,  which caused permanent 
injury to his spine. Mr C made  a claim under the policy. He was not medically discharged 
from the armed forces (though  had to leave his unit), but expected to continue to serve by 
carrying out administrative  duties  only (though later his solicitors said he was discharged  in 
2019). 
Mr C disagreed with the conclusion  of the independent medical  expert appointed by AIG that 
he was 5% disabled  by his injury,  and said that the examination wasnt sufficient to reach 
that conclusion.  He said that another  expert  had said he was 58% disabled due to his back 
injury. Mr C was also unhappy that significant  exclusions hadnt been brought  to his attention 
when he took out the policy (which affected  military  personnel).
Mr C complained to AIG about how it dealt with his claim. AIG said that the terms and 
conditions of the policy allowed it to appoint an independent medical expert  to examine Mr C 
and his case; this was to help AIG assess the degree of loss of function suffered. But it said 
that it shouldnt  have considered the claim under the section it had and agreed to reassess 
his claim under a different  section of the policy. AIG withdrew its previous offer and agreed 
to arrange another examination. AIG also offered £500 plus 8% interest  for the trouble and 
upset suffered by Mr C due to its error.
Mr C felt that the independent expert  consulted  about his condition wasnt independent  as he 
was contacted through AIGs outsourcing partner; he also felt that the examination wasnt  
thorough. AIG said as the expert wasnt an AIG employee  or part of AIG, he was 
independent and it was usual to outsource finding an expert. AIG noted  that the expert was 
suitably qualified and the examination was a matter  for him, not an insurer. AIG commented 
that the policy was sold by a specialist (who didnt give advice) who understood  the needs of 
those in military service, and thought sufficient information about  the policy had been given 
to Mr C to enable him to decide whether the policy was suitable  to meet  his needs.
Mr C complained to us. AIG said that it had offered  to let Mr C choose which  one of three  
experts examined him (and to let him discuss  how the examination  would be conducted  with 
the expert), and he hadnt  accepted.  AIG also showed that it had asked the original expert to 
comment on the views of the expert relied  upon  by Mr C  the original expert  had said that 
the view that Mr C was 58% disabled came from Mr Cs own assessment of his condition 
and was from a tool designed for research. He was willing to increase the contribution of the 
accident to Mr Cs back problems to 25%, but said the overall  effect on Mr Cs body was only 
10%.
Ref: DRN10351102Mr C then instructed solicitors, who wrote to this service and said that as there was no 
permanent (total and irrecoverable) loss of use of Mr Cs spine, the correct section of the 
policy to use was the section which dealt with the whole body and assessed the impact of 
the disability to work out how disabled Mr C was and pay accordingly.  They  also said that 
the correct maximum benefit  should  be £20,000 per unit (from the general  section),  not 
£7,000 per unit (from the section dealing with spines). The solicitors noted  the delay in Mr C 
receiving his money and wanted the views of his preferred expert to be relied upon by AIG.
The investigators view was that it was clear from the medical evidence  that Mr C hadnt lost 
the use of his spine (as defined by the policy) and the correct section to be used was the 
general one where  the total disability  suffered  had to be considered. The investigator said 
that it was fair and reasonable to rely on AIGs  appointed experts  view as it was more  recent  
and reasoned, but it was also fair and reasonable to offer Mr C the choice of another  expert 
and it was up to him to say if he agreed. She also said that the offer of £500 plus interest 
was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr C.
AIG disagreed. It said that it was considering the claim under the general  section of the 
policy as Mr C hadnt totally  lost the use of his back or spine. But it said that it was part of the 
terms and conditions to assess how much use of the back or spine had been lost and to use 
the maximum available benefit for the spine  of £7,000 per unit purchased. The investigator 
agreed that this was what the policy said and accepted that the claim would now be 
considered under the general  section with reference to the degree  of loss of use of the back 
or spine.
Mr C and his solicitors  also disagreed. They reiterated their previous  argument that the 
general section  should  apply, with its maximum available benefit of £20,000  per unit 
purchased. They also said that if the investigator was correct,  then the approach she 
preferred was a significant limitation in cover and shouldve been highlighted to Mr C when 
he took out the policy; they believed that the policy was ambiguous.  Mr Cs solicitors said 
Mr C had decided to get his own medical  expert  opinion, rather than involve AIG.
The investigator said that all agreed  the general  section should  be used. She said it was fair 
and reasonable,  given  the terms and conditions of the policy, to refer to the specific section 
dealing with the back and spine and assess the percentage of loss of use (and apply the 
maximum cap from that section). She noted that Mr C was getting his own report  and said 
that it would  be reasonable for AIG to consider it when it was received. Her view didnt  
change.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am required to write  decisions so that 
they can be read by the wider public without  identifying Mr C and ensuring that the issues 
are easily understandable. I appreciate  that this can sometimes  feel to the parties as if I 
have glossed  over key parts of their argument,  but I have read and considered  all the 
evidence available  to me, including what the parties have said throughout this process.  I also 
would point out that this service is an informal alternative to the courts.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AIG has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN10351103Exclusion
The original  exclusion of which Mr C complained was about a term dealing with the situation 
when an individual  serving in the armed forces  is medically discharged. This term isnt 
relevant to Mr Cs position so Im not going  to deal with it. Even Mr Cs solicitors  havent 
talked about this exclusion as it was linked  to a specific  type of claim Mr C hasnt brought as 
part of this complaint.
Mr Cs solicitors say that the way AIG and the investigator have interpreted the policy is a 
significant exclusion. I disagree. An exclusion is a term saying an item or claim is excluded  
from the policy. A dispute over how a policy is interpreted isnt an exclusion. And I note that 
the wording which is the subject  of the dispute was set out in the policy, though I agree it 
wasnt highlighted;  this is because it wasnt an exclusion. I also can see that within the 
section of the policy that sets out its significant  features and benefits, it does say that AIG 
will pay out up to £20,000 per unit purchased depending on the exact  nature  of the 
permanent disability. There was a cooling off period to allow Mr C to cancel or raise any 
questions about  the policy and how it worked.
The correct  section under  which Mr Cs claim falls
Theres no dispute at all that Mr C suffered a significant injury due to the accident in 2014. 
Its clear from the medical evidence  that Mr Cs spine was injured and later operations 
havent cured him. But its also clear that Mr C hasnt suffered the total loss of use of his 
spine, though theres a dispute over how much use of his spine hes lost.
The policy is structured into a list of injuries and how much  would be paid for the total loss of 
use (or similar)  for each  body part. One item in the list is loss of the entire back or spine 
(vertebral column) with no injury to the spinal cord and it says £7,000 will be paid per unit 
purchased. Theres no reference to up to £7,000  its a fixed  sum. And loss is defined as 
the permanent, total and irrecoverable loss of use...  of the entire back or spine. Mr Cs 
medical condition  doesnt fall into the section as he has some  use of his spine and so he 
gets nothing under this section.
But this seems harsh, given Mr Cs injuries were serious enough to eventually  lead to his 
removal from active service (and I understand that hes since  been discharged on medical 
grounds, though I havent seen any documents confirming this). At the end of the list of 
specific injuries, theres a general section. It says We will pay a benefit  (or benefits) under 
item 17 of section B (permanent  disabilities)  for a permanent,  total and irrecoverable loss by 
assessing the degree of disability suffered compared to those permanent disabilities  
specifically mentioned in that sectionIf the disability suffered does not relate to a specific  
disability or a part of the body mentioned in the table of benefits in section  B, then we will 
assess the degree of disability  suffered  as a percentage of the whole body.  Payments made 
under this section  have  a maximum available benefit  of up to £20,000 per unit purchased.
What does this section mean? In my view,  bearing  in mind the law and regulatory rules, as 
well as the wording  of the policy itself,  this general  section  says that if theres  an injury 
relating to a body part in the specific list set out in Section  B, but it doesnt  equate  to a total 
loss of use of that body  part, AIG will consider  the degree of loss of use and pay out a 
percentage of what it wouldve paid if the entire body part had been lost. This is because  
consumers like Mr C have suffered a permanent loss of use, but it isnt total. To give an 
example, if 50% loss of use of the spine is established by the medical evidence, AIG will pay 
50%. 
Ref: DRN10351104Mr C suffered an injury to his back and spine which is included  in the list of permanent 
disabilities set out at Section B. I think  its reasonable  for AIG to assess  the degree of Mr Cs 
disability as back and spinal injuries  are specifically mentioned in the list set out within 
Section B. And it follows that I dont agree that its fair and reasonable to use the whole  body 
percentage calculation in the circumstances of this case. 
The next question  is AIG will pay 50% of what? Is it the maximum available  benefit of up to 
£20,000 per unit under  the general  section or 50% of the fixed  sum of £7,000  under the 
spine section?  Mr C and his solicitors note that the policy also says that where  a bodily 
injury suffered can be claimed under more than one of the items  specified in Section B in the 
table of benefits, only the benefit item specified  with the highest sum insured will be paid. I 
think a reasonable  reading of this section  is that when a claim could fall under two headings 
of specific injuries, only one payment will be made and that will be for the highest value 
claim. 
The general section  is different  as it says a payment of up to £20,000 can be made  per unit 
purchased. But this means it doesnt  promise to pay a fixed  sum of £20,000. I think  its most 
likely that this is a safety net when the table of benefits doesnt specify  a payment for the 
injury suffered and its necessary to assess  the degree of disability  suffered  by the whole 
body (and Mr C doesnt fall within this category for the reasons Ive already explained). The 
wording of the policy links the payment for a partial  loss of use of the back or spine to the 
relevant item within the table of benefits (the list of body parts). And if you think  about it 
logically, if you get £7,000  per unit for the loss of the entire back  or spine, why would you 
receive £20,000 for the lesser  partial  loss of use of the back  or spine?  I think  its fair and 
reasonable to use the fixed sum of £7,000  as the basis of the calculation. I dont agree that 
the policy wording  is ambiguous.
Medical experts
Mr C isnt impressed by the report of AIGs appointed expert. Theres  no reason in my view 
to be concerned by the fact AIG appointed  the expert through  an outsourced  business   this 
is entirely normal and standard  industry  practice. The expert  is a professional,  bound  by his 
professions code  of ethics, as well as the declaration  he made to the Court as an expert 
witness. Its fair and reasonable for AIG to rely on his views.  And I note that Mr Cs preferred 
expert doesnt say Mr C is 58% disabled; what he reports is Mr Cs description of his daily 
life and that this equates to 58% disabled by his own account. Mr Cs preferred expert  
doesnt specify the total disability suffered by Mr C due to his injury.
Mr C has chosen to get his own report. Thats his choice and its fair and reasonable for AIG 
to consider it. But equally, if AIG wants to reiterate  its offer for Mr C to choose an expert  from 
a list of three  it suggests, I think thats fair and reasonable. Effectively, such  an expert will be 
a jointly  appointed expert and should lead to the parties agreeing  the issue of the impact of 
the injuries on Mr Cs body.
But due to the lack of clarity about  the loss of use of Mr Cs back or spine, Im not in a 
position to say whether 10% is fair or reasonable. AIGs expert has changed  his view to 
increase the disability to this level and Mr Cs preferred expert  hasnt been asked this 
question. This is why its fair and reasonable for a third expert to be jointly  appointed.
Ref: DRN10351105Delay and other matters
Mr C complains that AIG has delayed dealing  with his claim.  I dont agree. AIG repeatedly  
asked Mr C to see if he would select an expert;  it responded to his correspondence  
promptly; and it explained its approach  to the policy. Mr C didnt agree with this, but it 
doesnt mean AIG delayed dealing with the claim.  Without a response  from Mr C to its offer 
of another expert to resolve the medical dispute,  AIG couldnt  progress the claim.  
I note AIG offered £500 plus interest  at the rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
Mr C submitted his claim until the date of payment. This offer was for the trouble and upset  
caused by its initial  handling of his claim.  Money  never truly compensates for trouble and 
upset and I note Mr C hasnt argued  about  this issue.  I think  £500 plus interest  as set out is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr C whether  to 
accept the offer from American International Group Limited. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
22 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1035110