K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a store card in 2003. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs M so it didnt have to make sure the PPI was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure she had enough information so she could make a 
choice about whether  she wanted the policy  or not. And I dont think it gave Mrs M enough  
information.
At the time Mrs M was sold the policy, she had a medical condition.  I think  this is important 
because previous, existing and related conditions are excluded  from the policy 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Mrs M would have been able to make  a successful 
claim for her condition. I think  Mrs M wouldve seen this condition  as a likely reason  she 
might want  to make a claim under the policy. I dont think  Mrs M wouldve bought this policy 
if shed understood  that she wouldnt be able to claim for it. So I think shes lost out because 
of what FICL did wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. And what FICL needs to do will depend on if Mrs Ms store card account is still 
open.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Ref: DRN12206022FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed 
her account  and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  (at 8% a year) on the difference  between what Mrs M 
wouldve owed when  she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund.
C.If  when FICL  works out what  Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra  Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point  when Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something on her card.
D.FICL  should tell Mrs M what it has done  to work  out A, B and C.

HM Revenue & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax FICL have taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1220602