K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr S says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
Mr S took applied for the card and policy through the post. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S says that he wasnt aware  that the PPI was optional. He also says that he had a 
telephone conversation with Amex after receiving his application to clarify  if PPI was 
necessary in his case  and it said that it was.
Amex says that it doesnt have a record of a call taking place, and that it didnt conduct 
follow up calls after an application had been made  by post. That said, its possible that Mr S 
called up to speak  with Amex for help with completing his application, but that theres  no 
record of this call due to how long ago he applied.
Amex has provided a copy of Mr Ss credit card application. On this I can see that the PPI is 
presented as an optional product. Theres also no mention that it was a requirement for 
some customers. The policy has been selected with a tick, and Mr S has also signed the 
application agreeing to the information on it. 
Had Mr S been told differently during  a phone call with Amex, I think  that Mr S likely 
wouldve questioned  why he was being told that he had to take PPI when his application 
doesnt say this. And, on balance, Im satisfied that Amex made it clear that Mr S didnt have 
to take the PPI, and that he chose  to do so. 
Amex didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Amex gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, including what  hes said about  having assets he 
couldve used if needed to make his repayments, and that he never ran up big bill son the 
card anyway. 
Ref: DRN14171882But the value  of the assets Mr S says he had could fluctuate  and hed need to sell them  
before he could the funds to make his repayments.  Having PPI could also mean that he 
wouldnt need to do this. And the cost of the PPI is proportionate to what he spent on the 
card  so if he only had a small  balance,  the PPI payment for cover would also be small.
So these points dont  change my decision,  and for the reasons  set out above, I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1417188