K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds refusal to pay a claim under his 
building insurance  for damage caused  by a storm, and also for what  he sees as failings  in 
how theyve handled  the claim.
background
Mr M reported that his house had suffered internal water damage  after storm conditions  in 
the area. He said that there  were  several areas of damp that had appeared that he 
presumed had resulted  from damage  to his roof in high winds and rain.
Tesco sent its contractor  to investigate. As a result some scaffolding  was set up at the front 
of the house. The contractor explained  that there were problems of access to the back  of the 
property so they couldnt use scaffolding  there.  Some  of the internal  damage appears to 
have arisen due to water  entering the property somewhere near the back of the building.
Several photographs were taken of the property, both inside and out. These showed the 
water damage inside and also several  areas  of the roof and chimney. The contractors 
reported that they believed that the rain had entered the property due to problems with the 
mortar in areas of the roof and chimney.  In their professional opinion this was age related 
and due to wear and tear over a period of time. They didnt identify any areas of damage 
which, in their experience,  were  consistent  with storm damage. Their  conclusion was that the 
storm hadnt caused the damage.  They  assessed  that the existing poor condition of parts of 
the roof had allowed the storm to blow rain under  tiles and penetrate  inside the house.
It was also noted  that Mr M had made  a previous  claim  for similar damage  two years 
previously with another insurer and this had also been declined  as no storm damage  was 
identified externally. I understand from the evidence Ive seen that the internal damage  was 
at least partly repaired at that point.
After getting the opinion  of their surveyor Tesco formally declined the claim. While Mr M 
continued to argue that the property hadnt been properly inspected Tesco said that its 
contractors had been able to view and photograph  the condition  of the relevant parts of the 
roof from the ground, from the front scaffolding and by using a camera  arm extension.
Mr M complained but Tesco maintained its positon. He was also upset about  receiving  a 
photograph of someone elses property and was concerned that photographs of his might 
have similarly  gone to other people. Our investigator agreed with Tescos  decision so the 
complaint has come  to me to review  again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have come to the same conclusion  as 
our investigator and dont  intend to uphold this complaint.
Firstly on the issue  of the administration of this claim Tesco  accepts that a wrong photograph 
was included with his paperwork. Mr M argued  that his own photographs, including  one of 
his son playing,  may have  similarly been  sent to the wrong claimant or elsewhere. Tesco has 
assured him that this hasnt  happened  and has apologised. I think thats  an appropriate 
resolution to that aspect  of his complaint in the absence  of any evidence  of anything  else.  
Ref: DRN13023932In relation to the scaffolding and the concern that Tesco wasnt able to properly consider 
evidence of damage at the rear of the property Im satisfied from what Ive seen that this 
hasnt made  a difference to the outcome of Mr Ms claim. Tesco  reports  that its contractors 
were properly able to inspect the alleged damage. And from the photos  Ive seen, and the 
written evidence of the contractor, Im satisfied that is the case.
Im also satisfied that the evidence provided  points  fairly to the conclusion that Tesco  made 
about the claim. There are areas around the chimney that clearly appear  to be age affected.  
I understand that the roof is something over 50 years old and Mr M isnt aware  of the last 
time any maintenance was undertaken. He has himself lived in the property for around three 
years. What I havent seen is any evidence of damage consistent with a storm such  as 
visible lifting  of tiles or other wind related  damage.  Thats the conclusion of Tescos 
contractors from their own visual  inspections and I think thats a fair conclusion  to draw on 
the evidence available. It appears to them that age related  wear  and tear has damaged  
some areas of mortar  that allow water  to enter the building. This may be exacerbated by 
strong winds blowing  rain in ways that normal weather might not.
Mr M doesnt have accidental damage cover under his buildings policy. In some  
circumstances, this service might instruct an insurer to pay for internal damage when it has 
arisen unexpectedly due to a storm forcing weather  into a building even  if the external 
damage already  existed.  But that would only be where optional  accidental damage cover  is 
purchased and also would require me to take the view that Mr M couldnt reasonably have 
been aware of the likelihood of that happening so couldnt be expected to have done 
something to prevent  it. In any event, in this case, I would struggle to conclude  that was fair 
due to the previous incident  when  Mr M claimed  which suggests this wasnt  a one off event.
So my conclusion is that theres no evidence to support the claim that the damage to Mr Ms 
roof and inside  his house was caused  by the storm in such a way as to justify his claim being 
paid. Im not satisfied that the damage outside  is consistent with a storm and that the storm 
was the dominant  cause  of the damage  outside and inside  the house.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302393