K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given by BlackStar  Wealth  Management Ltd. 
It recommended that he transfer deferred pension  benefit  he held in a defined benefit (final  
salary) pension scheme into a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  and then invest in a 
number of high risk investments.
background
In November 2014, Mr M was referred to BlackStar by an unregulated introducer.
Mr M signed a number of documents for BlackStar  in November 2014. These included the 
client agreement,  fact find, investment  risk questionnaire, letters of authority, and a 
declaration that no advice  had been given by the introducer.
The checklist itself had a set list of investments. This indicated  the investments  Mr M was
interested in were Colonial  Capital Corporate  Bonds,  and Dolphin Capital GmbH  loan notes.
The fact find recorded  that Mr M was in his late-fifties and working.  He was separated and in 
reasonable health. He had no investments and held £2,000 in savings. His main residence 
was valued at £160,000  with an outstanding mortgage of £100,000. He had no loans or 
credits cards. He had life cover of over £90,000.
The risk questionnaire said Mr M was willing to take a moderate risk in his financial affairs. 
The telephone note of an interview with Mr M from December 2014 said his objectives were  
to have a decent pension  at retirement  and that he was looking to take 25 per cent tax free 
cash.
Mr Ms attitude to risk was discussed,  and reduced  from a score of 7 out of 10, to 5/6 out of 
10 (with 1 being  low risk and 10 being high risk).
The transfer analysis  report  produced  in December 2014 indicated a critical yield of
8.55 per cent per year at age 65 and 7.80 per cent per year at age 68 would be necessary 
for the transfer  value to match the guaranteed benefits that were being given up.
The suitability report said Mr M was a medium risk investor and highlighted that the 
proposed investments were high risk. It also said that BlackStar generally regarded  a critical 
yield of over 6 per cent as a significant  risk, but if other factors  were  more important to Mr M 
then he should  consider  transferring.
The suitability report did recommended a transfer of the final salary scheme to a SIPP  
stating that a main  priority was to leave death  benefits under the plan to his dependents.
The funds recommended were Colonial Capital Corporate Bonds, Dolphin Capital GMbH
and a range  of collective funds. About the specific funds BlackStar  said, Although outside
of the conventional asset allocation we suggested for you,  an investment into Colonial
Capital and Dolphin  Capital  GmbH does  fit with  your  risk profile and investment understanding. 
Therefore I recommend that you proceed  with the investment.
Mr M signed to say he had read the report and the SIPP was set up with the transfer value 
from the final salary scheme  being  paid in July 2015  for just under £80,000. Mr M took tax 
free cash  of just under  £20,000 soon afterwards.
Ref: DRN11647972In March 2016, BlackStar advised Mr M that the Dolphin investment had not been placed. In 
August 2016,  Mr M was told that there was a tightening of criteria by the industry regulator 
and the Dolphin investment was no longer deemed suitable for him. So investment was 
made into other investments. Colonial Capital went into administration on 8 March  2017.
Mr M complained about the advice in March  2017.
BlackStar sent a final response letter in May 2017. This set out why it did not uphold the 
complaint. It said, in summary, the advice was based on Mr Ms general  objectives, attitude 
to risk, capacity for loss, knowledge  and experience. Mr M had confirmed he understood the 
additional risk to his portfolio and he was fully informed.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an adjudicator. She 
decided that the complaint should be upheld.  She said,  in summary;
Mr M didnt have  capacity for loss. This was his only personal pension.  He was in his 
late fifties and had no time to recover any losses.
The recommended  investments  included high risk investments that were  unregulated 
and didnt match his medium attitude  to risk.
The adviser would have been  aware of the valuable  nature of the final salary  pension 
benefits and knew  that a critical  yield above  6 per cent posed a significant risk but the 
adviser didnt advise against the transfer.
The final salary pension provided largely guaranteed benefits which were put at risk 
with the pension becoming dependent on investments and future  annuity  rates.  The 
transfer posed a higher degree  of risk than Mr M ought to have been advised to take.
The transfer allowed  Mr M to take his tax free cash but there is no detailed record  as 
to why tax free cash was needed  at that time.
There was nothing  to suggest that Mr M was anything other than a retail client.  There  
was nothing to suggest that investing  forty per cent of his fund into high risk 
unregulated funds was suitable  for him.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It responded  and made a number of points. In summary it said;
Mr M had been introduced to non-mainstream investments by an introducer. His 
objective was to receive advice  on the suitability of these investments.
The investments  were non-readily realisable  securities (NRRS) and not unregulated 
collective investment schemes  (UCIS).
Mr Ms income needs in retirement  would be met by his state pension. He wanted  
access to his pension  fund now. He wanted  the tax free cash. Hed said the scheme 
wasnt significant to him.
There was no documented need  to repay debts.
The assessment  that he was a moderately experienced investor was decided in 
discussion with Mr M who had held stocks and shares in the past.
Mr M had identified  the possibility of his pension failing and this was within his 
recorded attitude to risk.
BlackStar had met its regulatory obligations.
Ive summarised what BlackStar  has said but I have read all of its comments.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN11647973my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and broadly  with her reasoning. There is little that I can add to 
what she has already  said. I uphold this complaint.
It is clear that a third party introducer  was involved and whether that was a regulated or 
unregulated body is of little relevance in my view. Mr M may have been introduced to non-
mainstream investments  by this third party and held a wish to invest. But he was referred to 
BlackStar for a reason  and it was required to give advice that was suitable for him and to act 
in his best interest.
I dont think Mr M had any significant  capacity for loss. He had an outstanding mortgage and 
little by way of savings. This was his main  private  pension and it gave him virtually 
guaranteed benefits in retirement.  The guaranteed income from that pension could have 
allowed him to make  some provision  for his family  on his death if he wished.  
Mr M was within a few years of retirement  age and its not clear to me why he was advised 
to take what was obviously a high risk strategy at that time in his life. It was a time when 
many would be looking to reduce  risk rather than increase it. He would have had little time, 
or capacity,  to make up any losses.
BlackStar says that Mr M wanted to access tax free cash but there  is little if any detail about 
precisely why he needed  it. There has been  reference to Mr M needing to repay debts  but 
BlackStar says that this was not recorded  at the time although it was noted that he needed 
breathing space. Given that Mr M was apparently giving up guaranteed future benefits to 
access tax free cash Id expect to see clear reasons for this documented and recorded.
The suitability report confirmed that Mr M was highly likely to be worse  off in retirement if he 
transferred yet it recommended that he should  go ahead with the transfer.  The strategy 
BlackStar recommended was that over forty per cent of the funds should be placed in 
investments that it described as high risk. I dont think this strategy was suitable for him as it 
posed a higher degree of risk than he ought to have been advised  to take.
Im not satisfied that the recommendation to transfer was suitable  or in Mr Ms best interest. I 
think its likely that had he been given suitable advice he would have  decided  not to transfer.
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for 
the unsuitable advice.
BlackStar must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of his acceptance of the decision. 
Ref: DRN11647974BlackStar may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ms contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on his SERPS/S2P  
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Normally, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this. But Mr M has already taken some tax free cash which can be taken 
into account. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr M 
within 90 days of the date BlackStar receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes it to pay the compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1164797