K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Leek United Building  Society  (Leek) mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
The PPI was taken  out in 1994 and was added  to Mr and Mrs Bs existing mortgage. The 
policy was in Mr Bs name and they paid monthly for it. But Mr and Mrs B feel that this policy  
was mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
After doing that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to have the PPI. From the information thats been 
provided it looks like the policy  was sold via a postal  application  a number of years after they 
took out their mortgage. Leek shouldve made Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice in 
buying the policy. Ive seen a copy of the application  slip completed by Mr and Mrs B. The 
slip has options for the amount of cover  an applicant wants and Mr and Mrs B have chosen 
the option that best suited  their circumstances at the time and have signed the slip. There is 
nothing to suggest the PPI was compulsory and the fact Mr and Mrs B had had a mortgage 
for around  six years without having the policy makes me think  its likely Mr and Mrs B knew 
they had a choice about whether  to take it out or not.. 
Mr and Mrs B say Leek recommended they take the PPI. As this policy was taken out 
through a postal application with no obvious  interaction with a Leek representative  I think its 
unlikely Leek recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. So this meant  it didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was suitable for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Leek  gave Mr and Mrs B 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time (as the policy was only in his name)  it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Ive noted their comments 
around Mr Bs employment  status at the time  but it looks like this is different  from the 
information Mr and Mrs B gave Leek at the time of the sale. I think  the application form 
completed at the time is more accurate reflection of Mr Bs employment status. 
Mr and Mrs B say Mr B had a good level of sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out alongside these benefits.  Mr and Mrs B had borrowed funds  against  a 
large and long term financial commitment, which was secured on their home. And it looks 
like Mr B was the sole earner. So I think having the security that their mortgage repayments 
would be made  if he was unable to work would have been important to them. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN11108152Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything Leek might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1110815