K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC should  not have charged him overdraft charges 
on an overdraft facility  he hadnt requested and didnt know  he had.
background
Mr P asked Barclays to refund overdraft charges it had applied  to his account during the last 
few years because he hadnt requested an overdraft facility and didnt realise he had one. 
He also asked the bank to cancel  the one remaining monthly standing order still being paid 
from his account, and to close  the account.
Barclays said that it had applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
account. Over the years it had sent him correspondence about the charges and about 
changes to them. It had also sent him regular statements showing the balance  on his 
account and any transactions. It said it didnt believe it had done  anything wrong in its 
handling of Mr Ps account and therefore  would not be refunding  the overdraft charges. But 
as a goodwill  gesture it offered Mr P a payment of £150, which  he rejected.
Our investigator commented  that under our rules  we could  only look at charges applied to Mr 
Ps account over the last six years, which is what he then did, although Mr P had only 
complained about charges over the last three to four years. 
Our investigator said that he could see that Mr P had had an overdraft facility  from at least  
August 2000,  which was as far back as Barclays records  went.  And on balance he 
considered it more likely than not that Mr P had agreed to the overdraft facility  at some point. 
He also noted  that the bank had written  to Mr P about changes  to the overdraft facility in 
September 2013 and April 2014. And although  Mr P had now told Barclays  that he didnt 
read these  letters,  our investigator  considered  that the bank had done enough to make Mr P 
aware of his overdraft  facility.
Our investigator also set out in detail the changes in charges applied by Barclays to Mr Ps 
account since 2013 and noted the differences in how these had been presented on his 
statements. And he then concluded that the charges had been  properly applied by the bank 
in line with Mr Ps account terms and conditions.
Barclays had cancelled  Mr Ps remaining monthly  standing order for £5, as he had 
requested, but not closed his account.  Our investigator explained that as Mr P still owed 
Barclays a significant  amount  of money,  and hadnt  agreed a repayment plan, 
understandably the bank  wouldnt close his account.  
In conclusion our investigator  didnt  think  that Barclays had done anything  wrong.  He noted 
that the bank had offered  Mr P £150  as a gesture of goodwill, despite doing nothing  wrong,  
and left it to Mr P to contact the bank if, on reflection, he decided  to accept the offer.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view saying, in summary, that he shouldnt have had 
to pay overdraft charges  for an overdraft facility he hadnt requested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13957502The existence of Mr Ps overdraft pre-dates the six year period I can consider under our 
rules. This means that I cannot look at the circumstances leading to the overdraft facility 
becoming available on Mr Ps account, and whether or not this was added at his request. But 
as a fact Mr Ps account has had an overdraft facility since  2013 i.e from the start of the time 
period I can consider.
All of the statements  sent by Barclays to Mr P over the years  explicitly and clearly state his 
overdraft limit, as well as the extent  to which he has made use of that facility  and the 
charges consequently  applied. In addition Barclays has sent annual  account summaries 
since at least 2013, which again  clearly state  Mr Ps overdraft limit and average annual  
overdrawn balance. Barclays also sent Mr P letters in 2013 and 2014 about  changes to its 
charging structure, including to its overdraft. And it sent him financial assistance  letters  in 
2013 and 2016 noting that he had recently  incurred charges and offering to help if he was 
finding it hard to manage his money.
Mr P has said that he didnt read letters from the bank because he would have preferred 
them to have been written in Welsh.  He said that although he could read English he didnt 
always find it easy to read the banks  letters.  But he doesnt appear to have requested  
communications in Welsh  at any point during the six year period I am considering here.
I also note that Mr P has said he has found it increasingly difficult to use his Barclays  
account since his local branch closed  some 12 months ago. This suggests  to me that Mr P 
had been making  use of his branch for at least five of the last six years. As such it would 
have been open to him to raise any concerns  he had about his bank statements or letters 
hed received during a branch visit, but he doesnt appear to have done  so.
Mr P has made use of his overdraft facility fairly consistently over the last six years. This 
means he has been spending money  he didnt actually have, and has consequently incurred 
charges. As a customer  Mr P had a responsibility  to manage his account  and to be aware of 
both his spending and of the implications of that with respect to bank charges. Barclays  has 
applied its charges in line with the account terms and conditions and I cannot reasonably 
find that it has done anything wrong. 
In summary  then, and having considered the detail of Mr Ps complaint, I have found no error 
on the banks  part, and I therefore do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. I note that Barclays  has 
offered Mr P a goodwill  payment of £150, which I consider generous  under the 
circumstances. I leave  it to Mr P to contact  Barclays if he wishes to accept that offer.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395750