K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his claims under his travel 
insurance policy.
background 
Mr S and his family were abroad. Due to flooding, they were unable  to fly back  to the UK 
from their chosen airport in August 2018. This resulted in their stay abroad being  extended  
until they flew back in September 2018 on a different flight from a different airport.
Mr S held travel insurance underwritten  and administered by Aviva, which  he claimed on.
Aviva accepted Mr Ss claim  for enforced stay abroad. It paid Mr S £100  for each insured 
person for each  24 hour period they were unable to travel home   a total of £8,400.
Mr S also sought to claim for medical expenses, and lost baggage and possessions. Aviva 
didnt accept these  additional claims.
Mr S referred his complaint here  unhappy with how Aviva dealt with his overall  claim.
Our investigator found that Aviva  hadnt unfairly  declined Mr Ss claim for medical expenses,  
but that it should reassess Mr Ss claim for lost jewellery.  She found Avivas  offer of 
additional compensation of £100  to be fair and reasonable in respect  of how it otherwise 
dealt with Mr Ss claims.
Aviva subsequently reassessed  Mr Ss jewellery  claim  and paid Mr S £2,454.47 in 
settlement of this element.
Mr S has remained unhappy and the matter  was passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr S and Aviva my provisional decision on 4 April 2019 explaining why I was intending  
to uphold the complaint in part, and to direct  that Aviva pay Mr S compensation of £400.
Aviva responded to my provisional  decision  and said that it agrees to the compensation I 
proposed. 
Mr S responded to my provisional decision and remains unhappy.  
In summary,  Mr S has said that: 
£400 compensation for distress and inconvenience isnt enough.
My provisional decision doesnt  address all the calls he had with the business, in 
particular the one on 24 September 2018,  and also when the business  didnt  give him 
a helpful answer  when  he called  from abroad about prescription medication.
The business has lied about receiving certain  documents, and it didnt add his claim 
to his file between 25 August 2018  and 6 September 2018. 
The business has lied about the reason for the delay in payment of the £8,400, and 
the delays havent  been addressed.  
Ref: DRN16646152The £100 was paid the following day, so he questions why the £8,400 couldnt be 
paid as quickly.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision,  and for 
the same  reasons. Ive explained  my reasons again  below, including  some further 
comments, where appropriate, to address Mr Ss response to my provisional decision. 
Mr Ss remaining  dissatisfaction  concerns the way Aviva handled his claims  and not, now, 
the outcome of the claims themselves.
Mr S says Aviva didnt fully support him during his trip, it was emotionally threatening, and 
said it hadnt received  certain documentation from him when it had. I understand Mr S is 
unhappy with telephone  conversations he had with Aviva in August and September 2018. 
Hes said Avivas documented notes of these calls seem  to be missing  certain information.  
Hes also unhappy with the time it took Aviva to pay him the £8,400  for enforced  stay 
abroad, and that the £100 compensation its offered for this isnt enough.
Aviva has sent me recordings of various telephone conversations with Mr S in August and 
September 2018, which Ive listened to with care. Having done so, Im satisfied that the vast 
majority of Avivas  calls with Mr S were professional and courteous.  Unfortunately it couldnt 
help Mr S with payment  whilst he was abroad  until the claims could be sufficiently proved 
and settled. And on a number of its calls with Mr S, Aviva did its utmost  to help and give 
Mr S clear  information about  the process. Im also not satisfied that any misunderstanding  
about what documents Aviva had or had not received from Mr S was anything  more than 
that  a misunderstanding.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about  the calls,  including the call of 24 September 2018  
and when he called from abroad about  prescription medication; and also what Mr S has said 
about Aviva  lying about  receiving certain documents, and that it didnt add his claim to his file 
between 25 August 2018 and 6 September 2018. But like Ive said above, having listened  to 
the available  calls between Mr S and Aviva, and considered  all of the evidence, Im just not 
persuaded that Aviva mishandled those calls such that further compensation is due beyond 
what I proposed in my provisional decision. And like Ive already said,  Im also not satisfied 
that any misunderstanding about what documents Aviva had or had not received from Mr S 
was anything more  than that  a misunderstanding. 
But there is one call in which  Aviva wasnt as helpful  as it shouldve been  and it really upset 
Mr S. It appears from Avivas claims notes  that this call occurred on 6 September 2018. 
During this call Aviva intimated that Mr S should  be happy with the overall claim amount of 
£8,400, and effectively questioned his claiming  for further items. Mr S said he thought  this 
was a really bad question it was asking  him and proceeded to get very emotional. This 
appears to be what Mr S referred Aviva back to in subsequent calls. I dont think  Aviva dealt 
with Mr S at this point  appropriately  especially given the terrible  ordeal it knew  he had 
suffered, which was continuing to affect him. Aviva could and should instead  have properly  
discussed the merits of Mr Ss additional claims fairly and reasonably. I think the way it 
which it handled this caused Mr S substantial and unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN16646153Aviva could not prevent the flooding.  It was always, given the circumstances, going to be a 
difficult and stressful period for Mr S. But it exacerbated the situation  for Mr S significantly  at 
this point.
The £100  compensation  Aviva has already offered  is fair and reasonable to cover  the delay 
in it making the payment of £8,400.  I understand Mr S has said that Aviva  has lied about the 
reason for the delay in the payment of £8,400, and has questioned  why, when the £100 
compensation was paid the following day, the £8,400 couldnt have been  paid as quickly.  
This delay  was frustrating  for Mr S. But Im satisfied from the evidence  that Aviva  did its best 
to explain to Mr S why this occurred.  And I think £100 compensation is enough  for the delay. 
But given what Ive said above about  how Aviva  upset Mr S unnecessarily  at this difficult  
time, I think additional compensation of £300 is due  to take the total award for distress and 
inconvenience to £400.
I understand Mr S has asked for more  than this. And I would like to offer my sincerest 
sympathy and condolences  for the flooding he experienced last summer. Ive seen a video of 
the flood, which gives me a sense of just how devastating it was. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied  £400 in total fairly  reflects Avivas failings here.
Mr S is also unhappy that, he says,  Aviva told him someone would be in touch with him 
within 25 workings days of his formal complaint  but that this did not happen. Hes also said 
that Aviva  didnt respond to his SAR within 30 days. Weve already  explained  to Mr S why 
Im not persuaded further compensation is due for these points  so these points are not 
something Ill address  further here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and I direct Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay Mr S £400 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1664615