K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC has closed her bank account without reason. She 
feels she is being discriminated  against.
background
Ms A said the bank  previously cancelled other family  accounts,  and she appealed and 
Lloyds left her account open. She said Lloyds  had now closed her account and was 
discriminating against them because of their nationality.
Lloyds said it reviewed  Ms As account  and asked her about transactions on her account. Ms 
A said she wasnt comfortable answering their questions as it felt as if Lloyds was attempting  
to control her spending. 
Lloyds gave Ms A 65 days notice  of its intention to close the account. It didnt provide a 
reason for its actions.  Lloyds said Ms A didnt appeal its decision to close  her account or 
provide it with the information it required.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Lloyds had 
followed the correct  process in reviewing and then closing Ms As account.
Ms A disagreed with the investigator saying that Lloyds had discriminated against  her on the 
grounds of nationality. Ms A requested an ombudsman  review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at Lloyds actions towards Ms As account to see if it has acted within  
the terms and conditions of the account  and treated her fairly. 
Lloyds asked Ms A for information about  transactions on her account. Ms A said she 
provided some information to Lloyds, but Lloyds  said she hadnt provided the information it 
required. Ms A said she was reluctant to do so as she felt that Lloyds was attempting to 
control her spending. 
Lloyds, in common with all banks,  has regulatory responsibilities to review accounts  and ask 
questions about  account activity. Banks are entitled  to end banking relationship with 
customers, just as customers can switch to another bank  if they wish.  Im satisfied that 
Lloyds has acted within the terms and conditions of the account. 
From what  Ive seen, Lloyds has followed the correct procedure  in closing Ms As account 
and given her proper notice to make  alternative arrangements.  I think Lloyds has treated Ms 
A fairly in closing  her account.
Its frustrating  for Ms A that Lloyds  has only told her that her account was closed because  it 
is outside of the banks  appetite for risk. Banks are not required to provide customers with a 
reason for closing  their accounts and we cannot  compel them to do so. Ms A thinks  that 
Lloyds has discriminated against  her and her family on the grounds of nationality.  I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Lloyds has acted for this reason.
Ref: DRN17393692my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1739369