K822xcomplaint 
Mrs R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs R took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs R. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs R about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £250  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made. Her pet wasnt very old, and 
RSA was taking  advantage of the fact that she wouldnt  be able to get equivalent cover 
elsewhere if she cancelled the policy. She has now taken an alternative lifetime policy and 
anything her pet had previously would not be covered  in the future.  Mrs R would like further 
compensation in recognition of this, and future  costs  she may incur  as a result  of her pet 
having limited cover.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mrs Rs policy was too high, she should have been charged  less for the 
policy or that RSA should offer a cheaper policy  in the future.
While Mrs Rs premium  has seen significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant say RSA should have charged her a lower premium.
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs R a significant amount of distress as, due to the 
medical conditions  her pet had in the past, she hasnt been  able to find equivalent cover 
elsewhere. And I recognise that Mrs Rs pets previous medical history isnt covered under 
her new policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs R the information she needed  to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
Ref: DRN15757312wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Mrs R hadnt  taken  the lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for all her pets treatment  herself,  or a reduced level of cover, where  she 
would still have found herself in a situation where  her pet was no longer  covered for anything 
it had suffered from in the past.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mrs R having cover for previous conditions at a fixed  or capped premium   this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mrs R has 
experienced. and I think it fairly compensates Mrs R for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs R £250  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1575731