K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that The Co-operative Bank  Plc wont refund withdrawals from her current 
account which she says she didnt make or authorise. Miss P also complains  about  the 
service she received from Co-op.
background
Miss P had a current account with the Co-op bank.  She says that between March 2016  and 
April 2018 multiple  transactions  to numerous merchants and bank transfers were made from 
her account  which  she didnt authorise. Miss P says as a result of the disputed  transactions 
she fell into financial difficulties. And she found the whole situation  very distressing.
Miss P also says that when she contacted Co-op  about the transactions  in April 2018,  the 
bank didnt record what transactions  she was disputing  properly.  And didnt pass  the 
information onto its fraud  team or return her calls. Co-op accepted  it should have provided  
Miss P better service and offered her £50 compensation for the trouble and upset she was 
caused.   
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute. In summary, Miss P is disputing payments made to a games 
console merchant,  which I will refer to as M. And several bank transfer  to a bank account 
ending in 845. Below is an example of some  of the transactions Miss P is disputing:
Date Transaction Amount Type
4 April 2017 Games merchant M £11.99 Card not present
12 July 2017 Bank transfer to 
account ending  ***845£30.00 Telephone banking
9 August 2017 Bank transfer to 
account ending  ***845£30.00 Telephone banking
25 August 2017 Games merchant M £3.99 Card not present
22 September 2017 Games merchant M £3.99 Card not present
24 October 2017 Games merchant M £11.99 Card not present
7 November 2017 Games merchant M £49.99 Card not present
9 November 2017 Bank transfer to 
account ending  ***845£10.00 Telephone banking
4 December 2017 Bank transfer to 
account ending  ***845£30.00 Telephone banking
7 March 2018 Games merchant M £3.99 Card not present
19 March 2018 Games merchant M £5.99 Card not present
6 April 2018 Games merchant M £11.99 Card not present
In April 2018, Miss P called Co-op  to say she didnt make the disputed transactions. She told 
the Co-op that that no one else knew her card details including her PIN. And she didnt keep 
a written record of any of her banking  details. She said her children  had Xbox accounts. And 
shed allowed both of her sons access to her bank card for their games console accounts. 
But she couldnt explain  how all the transactions  had been carried without her knowledge or 
consent. Miss P also said that she didnt recognise  the account  number ending 845.
After Miss P had brought her complaint to this service, she identified further transactions to 
various merchants which  she disputed.  These transactions  were  made  to purchase access  
to television channels, goods from an online merchant,  and other retailers.  However,  Co-op 
Ref: DRN19182622and our investigator both said Miss P had raised  these disputes  more than 13 months after 
the debit date. Miss P disagreed.
Co-op looked into the transactions  Miss P had disputed between March  2017 and April 
2018. It said there was no evidence of fraudulent activity and it was satisfied that Miss P had 
authorised the transactions or made them herself because:
Miss Ps genuine card and PIN were used to make transaction to merchants
Miss P hadnt provided any explanation as to how her bank card and PIN were 
compromised 
Miss P told Co-op that her children  had games  console accounts
Miss P told Co-op that she had allowed both of her children access to her bank card 
for their games console accounts
on 4 November 2017 Miss P called Co-op  and confirmed one of her sons  had 
carried out games console purchases  from merchant M and had agreed to place  a 
block on her account  preventing further payments to merchant M
Miss P called Co-op  on 23 February  2018  to authorise a bank  transfer payment of 
£16.00 to her sons account with another bank, ending 845, which required additional  
security questions to be answered
on 1 March 2018 Miss P called Co-op and asked for a block  on her account which 
stopped games  console transactions to be removed as her son was upset
on 15 March 2018 Miss P called Co-op  and confirmed that her bank details are 
stored on her sons Xbox  accounts and asked for the block to be remove so that 
software could be purchased
Monthly bank statements were regularly sent to Miss Ps address, she visited  
branches and often spoke to Co-ops telephone banking  team  to make  transactions 
so she would have  been aware  of the activity on her account. And wouldve been 
able to raise the disputes at the time
the disputed  transactions  wouldve affected Miss Ps available  account  balance, but 
Miss P didnt report the fraudulent transactions until 4 November 2017
An investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint but didnt uphold  it. Having looked at the 
sequence of events, what Miss P had said, and the technical evidence provided by Co-op, 
he said it was more  likely than not Miss P authorised the disputed transactions.  He also said 
Co-op had done  enough  to put things right regarding its poor service. 
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators  view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Ill deal first with the significance of when Miss P contacted Co-op to raise  her disputed 
transaction claim. Co-op  has said Miss P isnt entitled to a refund of several the disputed 
transactions because  she didnt  tell Co-op  about  the transactions  until more  than 13 months 
after they debited  her account.  
Ref: DRN19182623The 13-month time limit is found in regulation 59 of the Payment Services Regulations 2009. 
Regulation 61 requires  a payment service provider to immediately refund an unauthorised 
payment. And regulation 59(1) says:
(1)A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 61.only if [he] 
notifies the payment  service provider without undue delay, and in any event no 
later than  13 months  after the debit date, on becoming aware of any 
unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction
Ive also read the terms and conditions which applied  to Miss Ps account at the time. And 
incorporate section 59. Under section  8 it states:
You must tell us as soon  as you notice an unauthorised payment has been made 
from your account.well  refund the amount of the unauthorised payment as soon as 
we reasonably can unless you tell us more than 13 months after the payment was 
made.
Miss P says she first became aware  of the disputed transactions  in April 2018, after shed 
checked her statements  which is when she first contacted  Co-op. Miss P also raised  
further disputes in August 2019  regarding transactions made  in November 2017, which  she 
says she didnt recognise. But Co-op  has confirmed  that Miss P wouldve received  a monthly 
postal statement. Ive not seen any evidence that there was a problem with Miss P being  
able to receive her post. This means that during the months that the disputed transactions  
took place, Miss P would have received a statement through  the post the following month,  
which wouldve shown the activity on the account and balance. 
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its likely that Miss P was aware of the balance and 
activity on her account. And could have notified Co-op sooner than she did. I therefore think  
its fair and reasonable for Co-op to rely on the 13-month term and not refund the 
transactions prior to March 2017.
disputed transactions
Co-op is required to refund the amount of unauthorised  transactions if Miss P did not make  
or authorise  them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017) and the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 
2009). Miss P says she didnt make  the payments to the games console merchant and 
doesnt recognise the payments to account ending 854. So, my primary concern is to come 
to a view about  whether  I think  Miss P authorised  the payments. 
bank transfers
Miss P told Co-op that she didnt recognise  several  payments  made from her account  to an 
account ending  845. The payments were made via telephone banking. 
Ive looked at Miss Ps bank statements and I can see that regular  payments  to the account 
ending 845 were  made  on a monthly basis. And Ive also listened to a call Miss P made to 
Co-op on 23 February 2018.  During  this call, Miss P answered additional security  questions 
about her account  by providing her password and then asked for her account balance.  She 
was told it was £79, Miss P then asked for £16 to be transferred to the account ending  845. 
Ref: DRN19182624Miss P has also provided us with bank statements relating to account  ending 845. From 
looking at these statements and information  provided to us by Miss P, Im satisfied that this 
account belongs  to Miss Ps son. 
Ive kept in mind  that Miss P has told us that she hasnt shared her bank account  details, 
including her security details with anyone else. So, when I weigh everything up, I think  its 
more likely than not that Miss P made or authorised the payments to account ending 845 
that she disputes. 
payments to games  merchant M
Im satisfied from looking at all the evidence that Miss Ps authorised the disputed  
transactions. I say this because:
Miss P says she hasnt  disclosed her card details to anyone else. And hasnt 
recorded it anywhere. So, theres  no convincing explanation for how an unknown 
third party  would  know this information
Miss P has confirmed that she had loaded her bank card details onto her children  
games console to make  purchases
Co-op has provided call notes which show Miss P called  the bank on more than one 
occasion in November 2017 about payments to games merchant M. During these 
calls Miss P asked for blocks  to be applied to stop any future  payments
Miss P was aware that card details stored on her sons games consoles could be 
used for future payments 
On 23 November 2017, Miss P called Co-op  to ask for the payment blocks  to be 
removed so that she could pay to change  the user name  for her son on a game. 
Co-op advised her that once block removed it could not be added  back  on. Miss P 
stated she would  use a different card to make the purchase
in March 2018 Miss P called Co-op  and asked for the blocks to merchant M to be 
removed because her children were upset  that they could no longer make purchases 
for their games console. As a result, Co-op  removed the blocks  on 1 March  2018
numerous payments  were made  to merchant M between March and April 2018
Miss P received monthly bank  account statements showing all transactions  to 
merchant M
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Miss P authorised  the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Co-op to refuse her a refund of the 
disputed transactions.
service issues
Miss P says Co-op were unhelpful when she called to try and raise her disputed  transaction  
claim. She says that she had to go over everything on more  than one occasion.  And the 
bank didnt pass information onto to the right department. She says all of this caused  her 
distress and inconvenience.
I fully accept that Miss P was upset,  and I recognise  the strength of her feelings. Co-op does 
accept it should  have dealt with Miss Ps calls better. And its apologised to her. It has also 
offered Miss P £50 for any trouble and upset this caused.
Ref: DRN19182625Overall, I think Co-op has done  enough to put things right. So, I think its offer is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect  of Miss Ps complaint. And, while  I appreciate Miss P 
wont agree,  I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1918262