K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy because  URIS Group Limited  trading  as Direct Group Limited  (Direct 
Group) destroyed  the documents he sent them  as part of a claim.  
background
Mr D made  a contents insurance claim with Direct Group. He provided a receipt and a bank 
statement as part of this claim. The receipt was a copy obtained directly  from the store. The 
bank statement was a copy Mr D had requested  from his bank. 
The claim was the subject of a complaint  with our service, and a final decision was issued  on 
the matter. About six months after this final decision,  Mr D asked Direct Group to return  the 
receipt and bank statement to him.
Direct Group told Mr D they had destroyed the documents as part of their data protection 
regulation requirements.  They had made certified  copies  as part of the claim, and they sent 
Mr D these. 
Mr D was unhappy the documents had been destroyed, so he made a complaint which  
Direct Group upheld.  They acknowledged theyd made a mistake and apologised for it. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with this. He felt Direct Group  should pay the legal fees hed incurred 
getting advice,  as well as a further £2000 which is what he felt the receipt was worth  to him. 
So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought Direct  Group  should pay Mr D £100 
compensation for the error, because hed been  inconvenienced by taking steps  he wouldnt 
have had to take if the error  hadnt occurred. 
Direct Group disagreed that their mistake justified a payment of compensation, as the 
documents theyd  destroyed were  copies. Mr D also disagreed with the investigators 
opinion, because he felt more compensation was appropriate. So the complaint  was passed 
to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
As mentioned above, the claim  Mr D provided  the documents for was the subject of a 
complaint with our service, and a final decision has been previously issued  on that matter. 
To be clear, I will not be commenting  on the claim or its outcome, and these are not factors  I 
have taken into account when considering this complaint about the destroyed documents.  
Theres been no dispute that Direct Group destroyed Mr Ds documents.  While they have  
apologised to Mr D and provided him with certified  copies, I feel compensation is also fair 
and reasonable here. 
Ref: DRN17920662I say this because  Mr D enclosed a cover letter when he sent the documents  to Direct 
Group, specifically asking for the receipt to be returned. Because of this, I dont think  he 
shouldve had to ask for the documents to be returned, or follow  up on this  they should 
have been sent back routinely. Also, a certified copy isnt the same as an original copy  i.e. 
one that has come directly from the store or the bank. So what  Direct Group have given to 
Mr D isnt the same as the documents they destroyed.
Additionally, Ive considered that its likely to be difficult for Mr D to replace the receipt now, 
four years after the purchase date.  And that, if he wants  to replace either document,  hell 
have to go out of his way to do so. 
So for the reasons listed above,  I think compensation should be paid to Mr D. 
The investigator recommended  £100  compensation. But having considered everything, Im 
awarding £50. Although  Direct Group did make an error, I think they took steps to 
acknowledge this and account for the inconvenience  theyd caused. They  apologised and 
sent Mr D the certified copies they had. 
Also, while I accept Mr D will be inconvenienced  should he wish to replace either document, 
I dont believe this will cause him any financial loss. Ive also kept in mind that, while Mr D 
will only be able to replace the documents with copies,  the ones destroyed were also copies.   
So taking everything into account, I think £50 is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
URIS Group Limited trading as Direct Group  should pay Mr D £50 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1792066