K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by Ms M and Mrs H, Executors of the estate of their mother,  
Mrs M, who passed away on 29 October  2016.  Mrs M had a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage  with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, which was still outstanding at the time of her death The complaint is 
about poor customer service by Barclays.
background
On 28 January 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  in which I explained  why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  This is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. It sets 
out the full background,  reasoning and conclusions  for my provisional decision.
responses to the provisional  decision
Ms M responded for both Executors to say that, while she was disappointed,  she would 
abide by my final decision. Barclays  accepted my final decision, and agreed to honour  a 
payment of £500  which the investigator had asked it to make.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed my provisional decision. As 
both parties have agreed to abide  by my decision, I can see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached  that the complaint should not be upheld. I am glad to note Barclays  
has agreed to honour the payment of £500 recommended by the investigator  as a gesture  of 
goodwill.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  and endorsed in this final decision,  I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Ms M and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12895892Provisional Decision of 28 January 2019
complaint
This complaint is brought by Ms M and Mrs H, Executors of the estate of their mother, Mrs M, who 
passed away  on 29 October 2016.  Mrs M had a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, which was still outstanding at the time of her death The complaint arises out of the way the bank 
has dealt with the mortgage  account and the Executors since then.
background
The mortgage  was taken out in 2012, when Mrs M borrowed approximately £250,000 on an interest-
only basis over a term of 17 years to remortgage her BTL property. At the time of Mrs Ms death  the 
mortgage was on a five-year fixed rate until July 2018, after which it was to revert to a follow-on  rate 
of 4.99%.
Barclays was told of Mrs Ms death by Mrs H, who explained that solicitors were dealing  with the 
estate. On 15 November 2016 Barclays wrote to the solicitors to say that, because  the mortgage was 
held in the sole name of Mrs M, it would have to be repaid on disposal  of the estate.  Barclays also 
explained that it would  suspend  any arrears charges for a period of twelve months from the date of 
death.
The property was placed on the market  in April 2017, but remained unsold. A year later the solicitors 
wrote to Barclays. They explained that the property  had failed to sell at auction,  but that the Executors 
were hoping to receive a firm offer shortly. The solicitors said that Ms M and Mrs H were  able to pay 
the mortgage (at that time £630.39 per month), but that if payments increased, they would find it 
difficult to do so. The solicitors asked  if the mortgage  could  continue  on its current rate.
Unfortunately Barclays didnt  respond to this letter,  but instead sent a system-generated letter 
addressed to Mrs M in August 2018  to say that the payments were going  up to £1,052.05 per month. 
(The follow-on rate has since  increased, and from October 2018 the monthly  payment is £1,104.76.) 
Barclays also sent an arrears  letter  to Mrs H (in her capacity as Executor) in July 2018. Again, this 
appears to be a system-generated letter.
Ms M and Mrs H complained  to Barclays. They  were unhappy at the poor customer  service received 
from Barclays, and that the bank was unsympathetic  to their situation concerning the increased 
mortgage repayments and the financial difficulty this was causing them. 
Barclays acknowledged  that it had failed to reply to correspondence, that it hadnt returned calls and 
that it had given Mrs H incorrect information about the effect of non-payment  on her credit file. 
Barclays offered compensation of £380, including £30 for phone calls. 
Unhappy with Barclays  response,  Ms M and Mrs H brought the complaint to us. They want Barclays 
to agree to accept the original payments  of £630.39  until the property is sold,  and to pay fair 
compensation for the alarm and distress they have endured.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint about  the interest rate on the 
mortgage. But he thought  the compensation offered by Barclays  to the Executors  was too low. He 
recommended an increased award, to a total of £500.
Barclays agreed to pay this, but Ms M and Mrs H didnt think it was sufficient. They said that they 
decided to keep up the mortgage repayments not because they wanted to, but because they 
genuinely thought  they had to. Ms M says that nobody told them  that the mortgage would need to be 
repaid within a year of the date of death.
Ref: DRN12895893Ms M also says that, although their solicitors were told by Barclays  that arrears charges would be 
suspended for twelve months from the date of death, nobody mentioned  that she and her sister 
werent responsible for making the repayments. Ms M says Perhaps  we were just supposed to know 
this by osmosis  or telepathy.  
Ms M has explained how unhappy she and Mrs H are at the way Barclays has dealt with the matter. 
They didnt understand mortgages or law, and werent  supposed to know that it wasnt their personal 
responsibility to repay the mortgage.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I can see from the case file that this matter has been very upsetting 
for Ms M and Mrs H. So I know  that what I have to say below will be very unwelcome news to them.  
But Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Because this is a different outcome from that reached by the adjudicator,  Im giving both sides the 
opportunity to make  any further points theyd like to  by the date given at the top of this provisional  
decision  before  making a final decision.
Ms M and Mrs H are bringing this complaint in their capacity as Executors of their late mothers  
estate. They themselves  are not Barclays customers in relation to this matter.  So although I fully take 
on board all the points Ms M and Mrs H have made about how unhappy they are about the way 
Barclays has dealt with them, I can only consider the complaint in the context of the effect  of Barclays  
actions on the estate, not Ms M and Mrs H personally.
This is a BTL mortgage.  Its a commercial lending  product, outside the scope of mortgage  regulation. 
Under Barclays terms and conditions, the property must be rented out to tenants. Its not clear from 
the information on file whether the tenants  are still in occupation and, if so, what has happened to the 
rental income. But the question of whether  the property  is tenanted or vacant  isnt material to the 
outcome of the complaint.
mortgage repayments: In November 2016 Barclays explained to the solicitors acting for the Ms M 
and Mrs H that the mortgage would need to be repaid by the estate with twelve months of the date of 
Mrs Ms death. Barclays also said that interest would continue to accrue but that arrears  charges  
would be suspended for that period. In the circumstances, I find no basis for Ms M to say that she was 
never told this. 
I agree Ms M and Mrs H arent  expected to understand about mortgages and the law, but Id expect 
their solicitors to. I think its unlikely that solicitors  experienced in probate matters would be unaware  
of the obligations of Executors in relation  to mortgage  accounts. So Ms M and Mrs H werent meant to 
know this by osmosis or telepathy  but by being  told by their own professional  advisers. If Ms M 
and Mrs Hs solicitors  didnt  explain the position  to them, thats not something for which I can hold 
Barclays responsible.
Because Barclays has done  nothing  wrong here, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
the interest rate:  Once  the product expired, the mortgage reverted  onto the follow-on rate. Im 
satisfied it wasnt possible  for Barclays  to extend this  the product had come to an end. Nor was 
Barclays able to offer a new fixed-rate  product. Thats because Barclays policy  is to require  
repayment of the mortgage in full after twelve months. And by the time the product had expired,  that 
deadline had expired by nine months
Barclays also doesnt offer mortgages to Executors. So if Ms M and Mrs H had wanted a new fixed-
rate product, theyd  have had to arrange for the property to be transferred  into their personal names 
(rather than Executors of the estate) and apply  in their own right for a new BTL mortgage.
Ref: DRN12895894In the circumstances Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably. Barclays could, under the mortgage 
terms and conditions,  have appointed  Receivers to collect the rent from the tenants or sell the 
property, once  the twelve  months had passed. I think Barclays  has shown considerable forbearance,  
given that the mortgage was due to be repaid in October 2017.  
Because Im satisfied Barclays wasnt under any obligation to extend the fixed  rate after it expired, Im 
not upholding this part of the complaint.
customer service: Its very unfortunate system-generated letters  were  sent addressed  to Mrs M. 
Barclays has explained this is an issue it is aware of, affecting other customers  in the same  situation, 
which it is looking  to rectify. I cant tell Barclays what systems  it should  have in place, but Im glad to 
see the bank is aware of the need  to address this problem. 
I think  Barclays didnt handle the calls from Ms M and Mrs H well. I dont think the call handlers 
properly grasped that this was a commercial,  not a residential, mortgage, or that Ms M and Mrs H 
were Executors, not borrowers. Barclays treated  this as if it was a residential mortgage in arrears, 
rather than a BTL mortgage.
I fully appreciate Barclays handling of the matter could have been much  better   both in relation to 
call-handling and replying  to correspondence from the solicitors  acting on behalf of the estate. I see 
Barclays has agreed to pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset  caused by this to Ms M 
and Mrs H, which the adjudicator thought was reasonable. 
But Im unable to make any award of compensation  for any distress,  trouble  or upset  caused to Ms M 
and Mrs H. Thats because I can only make an award  of compensation for trouble and upset if it is 
experienced by Barclays customer. 
In this case, the customer was Mrs M. All the events giving rise to the complaint happened after her 
death. So any trouble and upset caused by Barclays hasnt been experienced by Mrs M, but by the 
parties representing her estate. 
I can understand how upsetting this has been for Ms M and Mrs H. But the rules under which we are 
set up dont allow us to ask a bank to pay compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to 
Executors. Thats because Ms M and Mrs H arent Barclays customers  in relation to this account.  So 
even though Barclays accepts Ms M and Mrs H suffered distress or inconvenience as a result of its 
failings, theres no basis for me to order it to pay them any compensation in their capacity as 
Executors in carrying out their duties.
What this means is that I cant order Barclays to pay compensation  to Ms M and Mrs H for any 
shortcomings in its service  which caused them  distress or inconvenience. And because they arent 
Barclays customers in relation to this account, they cant complain in their own right about the way 
Barclays has dealt with them.
I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment  to Ms M and Mrs H. I would hope that Barclays, 
having already agreed to pay a total of £500 to Ms M and Mrs H, will honour that. But I cant order it to 
do so.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above   but subject  to anything further Ms M and Mrs H or Barclays Bank UK 
PLC might wish to say in response   my provisional decision is that Im not upholding  this complaint.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289589