K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  their let property insurer  AXA Insurance UK Plc in 
respect of a settlement it made to them when they found damage to their property after their 
tenant had been evicted.
background
Mr and Mrs F were  notified by their letting agent  in August 2018 that there was a leak 
coming from the bathroom  in the property.  The bathroom  was showing signs of water 
damage and the kitchen  ceiling had collapsed. A plumber attended and found there was no 
seal around the bath taps which were loose. His call out charge (which AXA later 
reimbursed) was £78. The tenants wouldnt allow contractors in to resolve damage and they 
stopped paying rent. They left on 24 September following eviction proceedings.
The letting agent assessed the house on 1 October  2018. Damage was found  in every room,  
to walls and flooring, as well in the garden. Also, both the garden and garage were left full of 
rubbish and discarded belongings. Mr F made a claim to AXA on 16 October  2018.  It asked 
to see evidence and in November 2018  Mr F said he would send it the report  completed by 
the letting agent on 1 October 2018.  He didnt send this to AXA until 9 January 2019.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to attend the property. The adjuster met with the letting agent 
as Mr F was unavailable. Following this meeting, the loss adjuster explained  to Mr F that the 
claim wasnt being accepted as malicious  damage  as there was no sign of malice. But it was 
accepted that some  damage would fall for cover  under the accidental damage cover 
available. The water damage to the bathroom and kitchen would be considered but might  be 
declined as having occurred gradually. A scope for the accepted work (but unpriced) was 
sent to Mr F and the loss adjuster confirmed the settlement would be £4,100  less £600 to 
account for six policy excesses. Regarding the excess he said one would be applied for 
each room even  though,  strictly speaking, each and every area of damage could have been 
seen as a separate incident  and therefore  subject to an excess. He said VAT would be paid 
if Mr F incurred it.
Mr F wasnt happy. He felt the overall  state of the house meant all the damage had been 
malicious. He sent a property check from the letting  agents dated  April 2018 which didnt 
show any signs of water damage.  A new loss adjuster reviewed the situation.  It was agreed 
that the water damage would be covered. A settlement based on Mr Fs cost to repair  this 
was made  but the sums were prorated  because, for example, Mr F had re-tiled  the whole 
bathroom as, whilst only one row needed removing for the water damage  repair,  the tiles
couldnt be matched.  The loss adjuster calculated an amount for one row of tiles and 
explained to Mr F that the policy didnt allow for undamaged matching items  to be replaced.
Mr F remained unhappy about a number  of things that were discussed  over several emails  
with the adjuster. He also asked for loss of rent to be considered. AXA eventually agree to 
pay for two months lost rent. Mr F felt it should  pay more.
The final offer from AXA was £8,993.96 for repairing damage.  This was put to Mr F on
25 March 2019.  The new loss adjuster was referring to the breakdown  as being for malicious 
and water damage, this in contrast to the previous  loss adjusters explanation that the claim,  
outside of the water  damage, was being dealt  with as one for accidental  not malicious  
damage. There was then £2,200 for lost rent to be added,  being  £1,100  per calendar month 
for two months. This bought the total settlement offer made to Mr F to £11,193.96.
Ref: DRN17973242Mr F was unhappy at the offer and complained to this service.  Our investigator asked AXA to 
pay its settlement offer to Mr F  as it had accepted he was due at least  this in settlement 
when it had offered  it to him. In October  2019  Mr F received a settlement from AXA in the 
sum of £9,696.96  with no explanation  for the deduction of £1,497  from the settlement 
amount previously offered. AXA later explained  to us that this was to account for payment of 
six excesses of £250, one for each room of damage  (it didnt explain why there  was a £3 
discrepancy).
The other items not already mentioned here which Mr F and AXA also remained  in dispute 
over were:
Damaged carpets  throughout.
Replacement of the bathroom  suite  damage  done on removal  but also a cracked bath 
panel and the sink was reportedly  cracked by the tenant.
Kitchen unit and drawer  to freezer damaged, plus back door glass broken and a missing  
cooker knob.
Washing machine and fridge are missing.
Displaced roof panel and damage  laminate flooring in conservatory.
Clearance of garden and garage.
Garage door damaged  and in need  of repair/replacement.
Missing doorbell receiver.
Mr F was also in disagreement with the value the original loss adjuster  had allowed  for the 
accidental damage  repairs that he had accepted as being due. He also queried  non-payment  
of VAT (although  his contractor didnt charge VAT).
Our investigator considered that AXA had treated Mr and Mrs F fairly and reasonably. He 
didnt recommend that it pay anything more. Mr and Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans 
decision and the complaint was passed  to me. I felt AXA hadnt acted fairly or reasonably 
and I issued a provisional decision to explain my views on where I felt AXA had failed 
Mr and Mrs F and what it needs to do to put things right. Both parties  have now responded, 
my provisional findings and their responses are set out below.
I said provisionally:
non-water damage   is it accidental or malicious?
I understand why Mr F thinks  this was malicious  damage. And I note that when the second 
loss adjuster was appointed, she referred to the non-water damage as malicious. But that 
was in contrast to the very clear position  the first loss adjuster had taken and explained in 
writing to Mr F. I think the initial loss adjusters explanation was reasonable and I dont think 
this was re-considered or overturned by the second  loss adjuster  given the way the second 
adjuster handled the claim I think it was just an oversight.  I think  she confused the situation 
somewhat, which  is far from ideal,  but in practical  terms, for Mr F, it matters little that this is 
logged as accidental  rather  than malicious  damage. The settlement isnt negatively affected.
basis of settlement
Often an insurer, settling  in cash, will be free to do so on the basis  of what it would have cost 
it to do the work. But AXA never offered to complete any work here.  Whilst Mr F had done 
some by the time he sent AXA details of what his costs would be, it could  still have offered to 
Ref: DRN17973243take over. But I also accept that Mr F moved on with work in order  to mitigate his situation  
which I cant fault him for doing. In any event,  what I need to do now is move  things on so 
Ive explained  below  what I think AXA needs to do now,  and generally Im not going to allow  
it to rely on what it mightve  cost it to do the work.  I dont think that would  be fair at this stage.
It isnt unusual for an insurer to not pay VAT to a policyholder until they incur  it by having 
work completed by a contractor whose invoice includes VAT. As Mr F hasnt incurred  VAT,  
I cant make  AXA pay him an amount to reflect such a cost.
In terms of excess, I think AXA has deducted too much. The applicable  individual excess 
amount was not £250 and the total deducted  was not in line with what had been  agreed to 
and Mr F had been advised  of during the claim. Whilst I note that the final offer put to him 
(before payment was made several months  later) didnt appear to include any excess 
deduction, I think he reasonably should  have expected to see some, based on the previous 
discussions with both of the loss adjusters. Further, the sum which was offered did, 
according to my reckoning,  take account  of one £100 excess for accidental damage  
applied by the second loss adjuster  when she factored the conservatory  damage into the 
claim and deducted  this from the first loss adjusters total settlement value without applying 
the excesses  he had felt were  appropriate.
Whilst the second adjuster accepted the escape  of water claim,  whereas the first didnt, no 
excess for that damage was applied. Only the escape of water damage  carries an excess  of
£250. All other building  damage (apart from subsidence which isnt relevant here)  has an 
excess value of £100. Furthermore  the policy explains that the excess  amount is the first 
part of any claim made.  Therefore, it matters not that there was more than one instance of 
accidental damage  or damage in different areas of the home, only one claim for accidental 
damage has been made, so only one excess can fairly be taken. There  is the water  damage 
claim to account for though. Im going  to require  AXA to pay Mr F £1,250  being the £1,500 it 
deducted less the £250 water excess which Mr F was always reasonably  liable to pay.
Below Ive explained that there  is also arguably a claim for theft.  That would also attract a
£100 excess. If the claim is accepted  and settled that excess  can be factored in at that point.
carpets
Mr F asked  AXA why it wasnt settling for carpets  even though sections were cut out of them.  
I also see the bedroom carpets  were stained  with ink and nail varnish similar to the damage 
to the walls which AXA accepted was accidental damage. AXA didnt provide an answer to 
Mr F about this. However I note that Mr F only has a buildings policy  with AXA.  And whilst 
the buildings  policy offers cover for fixed  hard flooring, such  as laminate and tiles, carpets 
are only covered by a contents policy. Im not going  to require AXA to make  settlement to
Mr F for replacing  the carpets.
bathroom
Ive seen photos and know the tiles were fitted on top of the edge  of the bath. But Im not 
persuaded the bath couldnt have been carefully  removed.  I know the whole bathroom was 
re-tiled, and the flooring,  including  a plyboard  base  layer, was replaced too. So I accept that 
the toilet and sink likely had to be removed for this to be done. But I cant see why they 
couldnt have  been carefully removed so as not to cause damage. So Im not persuaded the 
whole suite needed  replacing as part of the water damage claim.
Ref: DRN17973244The cracked bath panel wouldnt have meant the bath as a whole needed replacing. And the 
evidence from the letting agent  shows it was cracked when the tenancy began.  Whilst the 
agent felt it had got worse, as the initial crack  was pre-existing, it isnt something  I can say 
was caused/occurred accidentally or maliciously during the tenancy.
The sink was, according to the letting agent, found to be cracked in October 2018. This 
wasnt noted as having been  cracked  in April 2018. A cracked sink doesnt  usually just 
happen, it is indicative of accidental or malicious  damage. I think  AXA should accept this, as 
it did the rest of the non-water damage,  as accidental damage. Mr F paid his contractor
£1,575 to supply  and install a new bathroom suite.  I think a sink is the least costly of the 
three items to buy and fit. Im prepared to say AXA should  pay Mr F £300  for this, unless 
Mr F or AXA can persuade me that either  a lesser or higher value is fairly due.
AXA only agreed  to pay for the cost of replacing one run of tiles around the bath to allow for 
its removal to repair the water damage. AXA is correct in that its policy  doesnt  offer cover  for 
undamaged matching items. But this service  has a long-standing approach  in this respect. 
We expect an insurer to contribute  to replacing  undamaged  matching  items where  matching  
replacements in respect of the damaged areas  cant be found. AXA did not do that here so 
its offer of settlement regarding the tiles was unfair and unreasonable. Ive thought then what 
a fair settlement  would be. Mr F paid £1,748 for removal, preparation and replacement of all 
the tiles. AXA hasnt been clear  what proportion of the £3,717.96 it allowed for water 
damage was allocated for the one row of tiling. I think  AXA would be unlikely to have 
allocated more than £150 for this cost (when  looking at the area in question against the other 
costs it agreed within this overall sum). I think, bearing in mind our general approach, 
deducting £150 from the overall tiling cost and then requiring AXA to pay roughly half of the 
remainder is fair. That is £800 for AXA to pay.
kitchen
Mr F has sent photos of the kitchen units.  The damage hes picked out doesnt look like 
accidental or malicious damage to me  theres some  delamination and marking  of the finish. 
In my view, AXAs view that this is indicative of lack of care by the tenant seems  fair and 
reasonable. Whilst one cupboard door has come off the hinge, it doesnt  look like this was 
ripped off or otherwise damaged. Again I think AXAs  view that this isnt consistent with 
accidental or malicious damage is fair and reasonable.
The glass  in the external  kitchen door is broken. AXA hasnt settled for this and, despite Mr F 
asking it why, it hasnt  answered this query.  In my view, glass wouldnt  usually  fail like this 
due to wear and tear, I think its reasonable to say this is most likely accidental damage.
Mr Fs cost for replacing the glass was £150. Im minded to require AXA to pay this sum.
There are then some missing or damaged white goods. The buildings  policy  offers cover for 
loss or damage to freestanding white goods, where  the loss or damage occurs due to one of 
the events listed  in the policy  of relevance  here would be accidental or malicious damage 
and theft (the latter of which AXA doesnt  seem  to have considered).
Mr F has shown the cooker  is missing  a knob. But this wasnt picked up in the 
comprehensive check out assessment undertaken by the letting agent in October  2018  and 
it isnt clear when Mr F found  the damage or photographed it. Given it isnt on the check-out 
assessment Im not persuaded this was damage  most likely done by the tenant.  Even  if Mr F 
can show that it was, it isnt clear to me that this was accidental or malicious  a knob might 
come away  with use over time but it is hard to see that one would accidentally  pull or knock 
Ref: DRN17973245one knob off in the middle of the row of other  knobs,  and removing just one knob doesnt 
seem to me to be in-keeping with a malicious act. Im not going to make  AXA repair or 
replace the cooker.
Mr F showed a cracked drawer  in the freezer. I think AXA was unclear as to how Mr F felt 
the freezer was damaged.  Im not persuaded  such  damage would warrant replacing the 
whole freezer.  In my experience freezer drawers crack like this due to overloading and/or 
rough handling.  I note that the drawer isnt completely destroyed or missing, and it is only the 
one drawer which is suffering damage. Im not minded to think  this damage  is either  
accidental or malicious.
The fridge and washing machine are missing according to the letting agent. They were 
certainly pictured  in place when the agent attended  the property in April 2018. But the agent  
says in its October 2018 report that it needs to seek confirmation from Mr F, presumably as 
to who owned  the items.  I havent  seen  an initial  inventory of goods for the property when it 
was let, and whilst AXA did ask for proof from Mr F as to who owned these items, I cant  see 
it was supplied. Subject  to proof  that Mr F did own the washing machine and fridge, I think 
AXA should  make a settlement for their replacement as theres no reason to doubt him when 
he says he didnt authorise their removal so they should be considered stolen. AXA will be 
able to deduct an excess of £100 from any settlement it makes for these two items.
conservatory
Mr F provided a picture showing a displaced roof panel. AXA again seems  to have been 
unclear what Mr F wanted here. I understand that Mr F wants  AXA to pay for it to be
re-seated. The report from the letting agent in October 2018  didnt  note damage  to the roof 
and photos showing  the conservatory as a whole, including  the roof, show the panel in 
question in place.  Therefore,  Im not persuaded the tenant did anything to damage it. Im not 
going to require AXA to pay for it to be re-seated.
The laminate  flooring  is damaged; by the French doors there  are cracked  and damaged 
planks and on the opposite side of the room the flooring is stained.  AXA hasnt given any 
reason as to why this doesnt fall for cover  as accidental damage  (I dont  think  its malicious).
The letting agent report from April 2018  shows that at that time there were a lot of heavy 
items stored in the conservatory,  including an exercise bike right in the area of damage.
I think its reasonable, in the absence of anything compelling from AXA, to say the most 
likely cause of damage to the flooring  was accidental  damage due to the exercise bike. Im 
going to require AXA to make settlement for replacing the flooring.
It cost Mr F £173 to have  the laminate lifted. He replaced it with tiles and, for that, the floor 
had to be screeded  that work  cost £299. I dont think  it would have cost any less for 
laminate to be purchased and laid (without  screeding the floor which likely was only 
necessary for laying tiles).  Im going  to require  AXA to pay Mr F £472.
garden and garage
The policy offers cover  for rubbish removal  but only where its related to damage otherwise 
covered by the policy. The policy doesnt just offer cover for clearing the property following a 
tenant leaving having discarded items and not properly  disposed of things. AXAs refusal  to 
cover Mr Fs clearance costs here were, in my view, reasonable.
Ref: DRN17973246The garage door, Mr F said, wont function properly. Mr F hasnt  obtained an expert  report. 
He has provided  a photo showing a loose wire,  but it isnt clear  if this is the cause of the 
problem. AXA says it thinks  this type of issue is most  in-keeping with wear  and tear and/or 
lack of care being  used  by the tenant.  It doesnt think  its likely the result  of accidental or 
malicious damage. Im satisfied that is a reasonable response in the circumstances.
doorbell receiver
AXA said it might  consider replacing  this (assumedly as it accepts it is a part of a buildings 
item which has been stolen) but it would be subject  to an excess and the item, by itself 
would be less than the excess amount. Whilst I note AXAs  point, as Im now requiring it to 
potentially make settlement for the stolen white goods it would seem  reasonable to include 
the missing receiver within that claim. As such  AXAs argument  that replacing  the receiver  
would fall within the policy excess is no longer a valid defence to not settling for this item. 
AXA said replacement was £75, this sum can be added to the replacement cost for the 
washing machine  and fridge (if Mr F shows he owned them)  and then one excess of £100 
can be deducted from the total before settlement is made.
loss of rent
I dont intend to make AXA pay more for lost rent. Mr F didnt tell AXA about the damage 
until 16 October 2018. Whilst he then, in November, agreed to send AXA evidence of the 
damage he was claiming for he didnt send this until January 2019.  By then he reported most  
of the escape  of water damage  had been  rectified. This was roughly four months from the 
tenant leaving.
AXA points out that the tenant didnt leave  due to the water damage,  although it was quite  
significant. But I bear in mind the tenant did stop paying rent and it was on this basis Mr F 
evicted them. The situation  was further  complicated  though as the letting agent said the 
tenant had refused to allow repairs to be completed.
I take Mr Fs delay in providing  detail into account.  But I also bear in mind  that even  once he 
provided this it took a couple of months before a final offer was made to Mr F (at the end of 
March 2019) and even  then AXA didnt make this payment to him. The settlement was short  
in a few areas (as Ive found above), but I think it was sufficient to cover the majority of the 
repairs that AXA was liable for. There was significant work  needed  that it wasnt  liable for, 
including replacing  carpets. And its settlement aside, Mr F was able, as I mentioned above, 
to complete the repairs necessary as a result of the water damage. So I dont think any 
delays by AXA or Mr F held up this work.
Even if the property had suffered no damage there would  have  been  a period necessary for 
re-letting the property. And I cant fairly  lay the blame for any lost rent at AXAs  door which  
has occurred because  Mr F couldnt  rent the property following completion of the water 
damage repairs because  other work, some to be covered by AXA and some not, wasnt  
done because  Mr F did not have  the funds. I say this particularly  as I think that AXAs view 
that the accidental damage it accepted it was liable for did not make  the home  uninhabitable 
was reasonable.
Taking all this into account leads me to conclude that AXAs  offer of two months lost rent 
was fair. It reasonably  accounts for the fact significant water damage repairs were necessary 
and the property, regardless of a pause  in letting naturally resulting from the eviction, couldnt 
be let until this work was done. I dont intend  to make AXA pay more  in this respect.
Ref: DRN17973247delayed settlement
Given the evidence  Mr F provided,  when  he provided it and the issues AXA had to take into 
account, I dont  think  its settlement  offer, when it was initially made was unreasonably 
delayed. But when  it made this offer, as it was satisfied this sum at least was due to Mr F, it 
should have paid it to him. It was unreasonable for it to not have paid him at that time. To 
make up for the fact Mr F was unfairly  without these funds until October  2019,  Im going to 
require AXA to pay interest* on the sum of £10,943.96  (the proffered settlement amount of
£11,193.96 less the only excess  amount [of £250]  which should ever have been  applied to 
that figure) from 25 March  2019  (the date of the offer) until the date in October  2019  when
£9,696.96 (being the proffered amount  less the unfairly deducted total excess  amount of
£1,497) was paid. I will also require it to pay interest* on the unfairly deducted  excess 
amount of £1,247 which Ive now said AXA should reimburse, from the date in October  2019 
when AXA paid the settlement of £9,696.96 until the unfair amount of excess that was 
deducted (£1,247) is reimbursed by it.
compensation
I do think AXA should pay Mr F some  compensation. There  was clearly some  frustration and 
inconvenience associated  with not being put in funds for several months. I also note that 
AXAs loss adjuster regularly either asked Mr F for evidence  he had already supplied or 
provided arguments against settlement that appeared in direct contradiction.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, Im not persuaded that Mr Fs delay at the outset in contacting AXA and 
in providing it with information  detract or mitigate the upset  I think AXA caused  him by its 
actions during the subsequent months  of the claim.  Im going to require AXA to pay Mr F 
£250 compensation.
AXA said it was generally in agreement with my findings. But it noted  Id said it should only 
have taken one excess of £250 when  it made  the belated  claim settlement  payment in 
October 2019, rather than deducting £1,500  as it had, and I was seeking  to make it refund 
Mr and Mr F £1,250. It said that instead it should  be allowed to keep a total of £550, which  
would equate to one escape of water  excess  and three excesses of £100 for accidental 
damage (making the total excess  deduction  for accidental damage £400,  reflecting for 
payments for four areas of damage only, as a compromise because its preference  was for 
at least six).
Mr F indicated he and Mrs F were generally pleased with my findings. But Mr F made a few 
points and provided some further evidence. In summary he said:
He had sent the inventory to AXA on 31 October  2018,  before the date Id said he did 
this of 9 January 2019.
He provided an inventory from 2017  showing the missing  fridge  and washing machine 
were provided as part of the letting arrangement.
He said as AXA knew of the claim, the check-out inventory  and the issues  he faced since 
31 October 2018 (not January 2019), I should  amend my decision regarding  lost rent.
In addition he couldnt make a claim  for lost rent until AXA had agreed  cover  for the 
damage and it didnt make any settlement in this respect  until February 2019.
He maintained the property was uninhabitable  and confirmed  what work was outstanding 
in January 2019 which he felt meant  the property was uninhabitable.
Due to AXAs failures to make interim payments he had run out of money to do more  
work.
Ref: DRN17973248It was June 2019 before it was fit to be habited  with a flexible tenant found who agreed to 
works completing during their tenancy.
£250 is insufficient compensation given what he has been through. It should be 
increased to better reflect that but also to drive a change in behaviour  from AXA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that AXA felt there  had been  multiple instances of accidental damage so it was 
fair to apply an excess per room  of damage. Whilst I applaud AXA for having  initially  sought  
to deal with the application of excesses in a fair way, I remain  of the view that then and now 
it missed the point of the policy wording. I explained  in my provisional decision why an 
application of excesses per room was unfair.  I remain  of that view.  
AXA deducted one excess  of £100  before making payment to Mr F. Regarding accidental 
damage, in line with the policy wording, it is not entitled to keep or charge any more excess  
amount for this claim. It can, as I said, keep £250  of the £1,500  deducted at settlement to 
reflect the excess it is entitled to for the escape  of water claim. It can also, if it makes  
settlement for a theft claim  to Mr and Mrs F, for the fridge, washing machine, and/or doorbell,  
deduct an excess of £100. To be clear, I mean it will only be entitled  to take just one excess 
of £100 for the theft claim regardless  of whether it settles in part or fully, for one, two or all 
three items. 
I see a copy email Mr F has provided showing a check-out  inventory was sent to an AXA 
email address on 31 October 2018.  But his email  does  not appear  on AXAs claim file. But 
AXAs file does show that, on 9 November, an AXA representative spoke to Mr F and that 
Mr F said he would  send  the inventory  not that he already had. I think  its reasonable to 
conclude that even if AXA had an email from Mr F on 31 October  and lost or misplaced it, by 
9 November he knew AXA did not have this document as an agreement was made for him to 
provide it. AXA then received this on 9 January 2019.
I accept that the inventory shows Mr and Mrs F supplied a fridge  and washing machine to 
the property in 2017. When the tenant left no fridge  or washing machine were present. On 
the face of it Mr and Mrs F have  evidenced  a claim for theft. As per my provisional decision,  
AXA will now have  to consider a claim in this respect and include consideration regarding 
the missing doorbell  receiver. If any part of the claim is settled, as explained in an earlier  
paragraph in this section, AXA will be able to deduct £100 as an excess.  
Ive considered what Mr F has said regarding lost rent. However, his comments havent 
persuaded me to change my view as set out provisionally. 
Similarly, Im not persuaded to change my view regarding  compensation. Id also explain 
though that I dont  make compensation awards  in order to punish businesses and/or to drive 
them to change the way they behave.  My compensation  awards  are made  to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused by an insurers failings. Im satisfied that, in the 
circumstances here,  £250 fairly and reasonably does that.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Ref: DRN17973249Reimburse £1,247 to Mr and Mrs F, being  an unfairly deducted excess  sum.
Regarding damage, pay Mr and Mrs F;
o£300  for the damaged bathroom sink.
o£800  towards  replacing the bathroom tiles.
o£150  to replace the glass in the kitchen door.
o£472  for the conservatory flooring.
Consider a theft claim for the washing  machine, fridge and doorbell receiver,  one excess  
of £100 to cover all three items  can be deducted  from any settlement due.
Pay Mr and Mrs F an amount equivalent  to interest*  on the sum of £10,943.96  from 
25 March 2019  until the date in October 2019 when £9,696.96 was paid to Mr F. And then 
on the sum of £1,247 until this sum is paid to Mr and Mrs F.
Pay Mr and Mrs F £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If AXA Insurance 
UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs F, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs F a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1797324