K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage in 1988. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy, which covered Mr D for accident and sickness only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint because:
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us a copy of paperwork completed at the time, from which  I 
can see that accident and sickness cover was selected. Mr and Mrs D have  said that 
they were told that they had to have  the cover  that the mortgage and MPPI went 
hand-in-hand. Ive thought about this carefully.  But I just dont think theres  enough 
evidence to say Mr and Mrs D werent given a choice. And overall I think its most likely 
that Bradford  & Bingley made  Mr and Mrs D aware  that they had a choice about buying  
the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Mr and Mrs D have said that they felt pressured  to take out the MPPI  that otherwise  
their mortgage application  could be refused. But again, I just dont think theres enough 
evidence for me to say this is what most likely happened.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence that Bradford & Bingley provided  Mr and Mrs D 
with a personalised recommendation  to take out the MPPI to cover Mr D  so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for them. But, in any event, even if Bradford & Bingley did 
recommend the cover  (and Im not saying that it did) to Mr and Mrs D, it seems to have  
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time.
Its possible  Bradford  & Bingley couldve explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did. But even  if it had, I think Mr and Mrs D would  still have bought it. Its also possible 
Bradford & Bingley didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr D, the 
person covered by the policy, doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of those 
things. I appreciate  Mr D was self-employed. But the cover for Mr D was set up to 
provide accident and sickness cover  only. And I havent seen  anything  about that cover 
that makes  me think it wouldve been harder for Mr D, as a self-employed  person, to 
claim under the policy.  
Ref: DRN16382162Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments, including that theyve said they didnt 
really need the cover  and that Mrs D couldve returned to work if need be. But the policy was 
designed to protect  against the unexpected, and I dont think  Mr and Mrs D would really  
have wanted to rely on Mrs D getting a job  which would not be guaranteed  if Mr D wasnt 
able to work. And if Mr D was unable to work due to accident or sickness,  the policy couldve 
paid out at what couldve been quite  a difficult time.  So I think  the cover was a sensible pre-
caution. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs D have said about them  not being told they could 
cancel the policy.  But even if this wasnt explained  at the time,  I think  its most likely the 
policy paperwork wouldve explained  this. But in any event, Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr and Mrs D subsequently  wished or contacted the business to cancel the policy, 
before it was actually  cancelled   which they couldve done  if they wanted  to cancel it before 
then. So Im not persuaded this proves Bradford & Bingley  did anything wrong or that 
Mr and Mrs D have lost out.
So although  Ive considered everything  Mr and Mrs D have said, for the reasons explained 
above, these points dont change my conclusion. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1638216