K821x#15complaint
Mr O said Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in 1997  and 2003.  
background
Our adjudicator investigated what happened  but she didnt think that Halifax had mis-sold 
PPI to Mr O in 1997. 
Our adjudicator explained her view to Mr O. Halifax had already  paid back  to Mr O 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. And Mr O 
confirmed to our adjudicator that he accepted that the PPI hadnt been mis-sold  and he was 
happy with the way that part of his complaint had been settled. 
Our adjudicator recommended  upholding Mr Os complaint that Halifax had mis-sold him PPI 
in 2003 as part of a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP). 
Halifax disagreed  with our adjudicators view that it should make any further repayment to 
Mr O and asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman  to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision.
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
what happened  when Halifax sold PPI to Mr O in 2003 alongside a further advance
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr O in 2003 so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  when the policy  was sold, I dont think  
that it was.
I say this because  the policy that Halifax sold Mr O to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments in 1997 was still running  when he arranged some  extra  borrowing on his 
mortgage account. 
So any need for PPI over and above  the cover he had in place was limited.  Only the extra  
amount hed pay each month to reflect his additional borrowing was unprotected by the 
policy hed taken out in 1997.
But the PPI that Halifax  sold Mr O in 2003  protected the full amount of his mortgage account.  
In other  words, Halifax advised Mr O to have, and then sold him, PPI that substantially 
duplicated the insurance cover he was already paying for. 
So I dont  feel I can fairly and reasonably say that Mr O needed the policy that Halifax  sold 
him in 2003 or that it was right for him. 
Ref: DRN15026792I understand that usually when Halifax recommends a TMPP to customers  who already have 
PPI set up to protect mortgage monthly repayments,  then it will arrange for the previous 
policy to be cancelled when it is replaced by the TMPP. Its unclear why that didnt happen 
here - it appears that our adjudicator was told that the PPI Mr O took out in 1997 wasnt  
cancelled until August 2005.  
And Halifax hasnt shown me that it made Mr O aware of the duplication or that its advice to 
take out the TMPP was only suitable  if Mr O cancelled his existing PPI. 
I find on balance that Halifax  didnt give Mr O enough clear  information about the PPI it 
recommended in 2003 and it wasnt suitable for him.
I think Mr O has lost out as a result. I dont think its likely he wouldve felt it worthwhile to 
pay for the PPI sold as part of the TMPP in 2003 if Halifax had made him aware that this 
substantially duplicated  cover Mr O already had in place. 
And even  taking into account that the TMPP wouldve protected the whole of his mortgage 
monthly repayment, I dont think in these circumstances he wouldve felt it offered him good 
value overall.
For these reasons, I think that Mr O lost out as he paid for the cover.  So, as things stand at 
the moment, I think its fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Halifax confirmed that it accepts my provisional decision and would like to settle Mr Os 
complaint along  the lines Ive suggested. 
Mr O has confirmed he has no further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair to uphold this complaint  for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN15026793putting things right
As it has now offered  to do, Halifax should put Mr O in the position he wouldve been  in had 
he not taken out the 2003 policy.  
So, Halifax  should:  
Pay Mr O the amount he paid each month for the PPI he took out in 2003
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
As Halifax  has already  repaid a commission amount  to Mr O that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by Halifax from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  to pay Mr O as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1502679