K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Unum Ltd unfairly  declined her income protection  claim. 
background
Ms B was a member of her previous employers income  protection scheme. The policy was 
provided by Unum and was designed to provide a regular income  if a member became 
incapacitated and unable to perform  their own occupation.
In February 2017,  Ms B became absent  from her job because  of depression. She was 
signed off work by her GP. And following a failed  attempt  at returning to work submitted an 
income protection claim.  
Unum reviewed the available evidence but said it didnt demonstrate that illness had 
prevented Ms B from performing her own occupation throughout the required deferred 
period. They  said it suggested Ms B had experienced a period of psychological  distress  
which had improved quickly, and there  was little evidence  of any functional  impairment 
throughout the deferred period. Unum said the evidence suggested Ms Bs problems had 
been focussed on her concerns around  returning to work  and declined  her claim. But Ms B 
disagreed with their decision  and brought her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked at the available  evidence but didnt think  it demonstrated Ms B had 
satisfied the terms of Unums policy either. They thought Unum had declined the claim 
reasonably in view of that, and they didnt  uphold Ms Bs complaint. But Ms B disagreed  with 
our investigators opinion too. So as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed  
to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can see that Ms B has 
provided very detailed  submissions. My findings will only focus on matters I consider central 
to the outcome of this complaint though. So I wont address every argument or piece  of 
evidence provided.  I trust Ms B wont take that as a matter of discourtesy. 
The relevant  rules and guidelines require Unum to handle claims promptly and fairly and not 
reject them unreasonably. So Ive thought about whether Unum did that here. 
Unums policy says benefit will be paid when a member becomes an incapacitated member 
and has been incapacitated  throughout the entire deferred period. Ms Bs deferred period  
was 52 consecutive weeks (1 February  2017 to 31 January 2018) which Unum have defined 
as, the period or periods  of time during which a member is, and remains,  incapacitated from 
the day that a member  first becomes incapacitated  until the date that benefit becomes 
payable.
Incapacitated is further defined as unable by reason  of their illness or injury, to perform  the 
material and substantial duties of the insured occupation.  Illness as ill-health or disease  as 
evidence by a significant or objectively determined deterioration in physical or mental 
health.  And material and substantial duties as the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured  occupation  and which cannot be reasonably  omitted 
Ref: DRN18544092or modified. It is those  duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any 
other employer.
Ms Bs GP patient record shows that she was signed off with depression for two weeks  at 
the end of January 2017 and prescribed  anti-depressants.  Two weeks later it records Ms B 
as appearing a lot better. And it shows that she continued to be signed off work until 
May 2017 and again from September 2017.  The patient record  doesnt record  further clinical  
information about Ms Bs depression during that time though. Nor information about why her 
depression was preventing her from being able to work at the time. 
In October  2017, the patient  record reports Ms B as saying  shed  made remarkable 
progress. And it shows her GP as noting, I have  suggested  that she increase the fluoxetine 
to 40mg  but she was reluctant. Objectively,  I have explained that she looked a lot better  and 
nothing today she only wanted a sick note. I have  offered a sick note for a week or 2 but she 
wanted it for a much  longer  period  i.e. 3 months. 
Towards the end of the deferred period the patient  record notes the GP as saying Ms B has 
an occupation health assessment and they are looking  to retire her. States that she has not 
been fully honest with what has been  happening to her and would like to meet  me personally 
to explain her situation. And it further records  the GP as saying Ms B had accused me of 
not exploring her suicidal  thoughts and perhaps she was not receiving  the correct  treatment  
[] She feels  that during previous consultations I accepted  what  she said was taken at face 
value [] She is under  a lot of social  and employment stress  and I think todays outburst 
may be a result of some trigger factor from these 2 sources.
Having reviewed the contemporaneous evidence within the GP patient record, I can see that 
Ms B was on medication for depression and signed off work  during parts  of the deferred  
period. But Im not persuaded it demonstrates a deterioration in Ms Bs ill-health throughout 
the required 52 weeks.
The occupational health (OH) assessment noted by Ms Bs GP took place at the end of the 
deferred period.  Looking  at the OH report itself,  it says there was a substantial mental 
impairment of Ms Bs ability to undertake daily activities  and she wasnt  fit to return to work. 
But, keeping in mind  the relevant deferred period  in this case,  it doesnt  set out why Ms B 
had been unable to perform her role previously. And it implies that Ms Bs difficulties around 
returning to work were  centred  on her fears about making mistakes,  her own ability, and her 
concerns about  others being  aware of her ill-health. So Im not persuaded the OH report 
demonstrates that Ms B was incapacitated and unable to work during the entire  deferred  
period either. 
Ms Bs GP wrote a retrospective letter following the deferred period. It provided further 
commentary about Ms Bs ill-health and reference it being produced is evident from a June 
2018 entry  on the patient record, had a lengthy conversation with Ms B. She has been  
excluded from a group policy income protection insurance. She appealed  through  the 
employer but was again declined. She is requesting a supporting letter challenging  the 
decision made by the insurance provider.
The subsequent letter from the GP said theyd been supporting  Ms B for the last one and a 
half years  and, in their opinion, shed  fulfilled the definition of incapacitated. But given the 
contemporaneous evidence in the patient  record cited above,  I still think  Unum  acted  
reasonably in concluding that the letter  didnt  demonstrate Ms B had satisfied the policy  
terms.
Ref: DRN18544093Ms Bs therapist also provided a letter after the deferred period. It detailed  the therapy  thatd  
been provided during parts of the deferred  period and set out the symptoms  Ms B had first 
described when  shed approached the therapist in February 2017. The letter  says Ms B was 
unable to perform the duties her role would have  required of her. But Im not persuaded it 
demonstrates a deterioration in Ms B ill-health throughout the entire  deferred  period either.  
And I think Unum acted reasonably in concluding that while  it allowed  an understanding of 
Ms Bs difficulties, it didnt  make  clear that there  were limitations and restrictions  for her 
throughout the entire duration  of the 52 consecutive weeks.  
Further information was also provided by Ms Bs psychologist. That was in the form of a 
June 2018 assessment diagnosing Ms B with Aspergers syndrome. And an August 2019 
letter further supporting Ms Bs claim. In summary  the psychologist  set out that Ms Bs 
diagnosis meant  shed have been unable to represent herself and express her emotional 
state properly.  And said Ms B had been suffering from depression throughout the deferred  
period with a tendency to tell people what they wanted to hear. 
The comments surrounding Ms Bs ill-health  during  the deferred period appear to be based 
on an assessment completed  in June 2018 though. And that was five months  after the 
deferred period  had expired. So while I appreciate the evidence provided by the 
psychologist, and the comments presented about  the impact and effect of Ms Bs diagnosis,  
I must keep in mind  the contemporaneous evidence too. And that shows Ms B had been 
able to present  herself at the beginning of the deferred period  in such a way that led to her 
being prescribed medication, signed off work  and advised  of further avenues of support. 
I must also keep in mind  the GPs own reporting about Ms Bs health  during  the deferred  
period too. And that sets out that Ms B had appeared a lot better  and implied the GP had 
been minded to only sign her off work for another two weeks in October  2017.
Unum considered all the available  evidence  in this case which  was the right thing for them to 
do. But having done so, theyve concluded it doesnt demonstrate that Ms Bs satisfied the 
policy. I have reviewed  that evidence again  here,  but Im not persuaded that it demonstrates 
Ms B was incapacitated as per the terms of Unums  policy either. Nor that she was unable to 
perform her role for the consecutive 52 week period because that. 
Ms B has expressed in great  detail  just how difficult shes found the events  surrounding her 
claim. And I acknowledge  shell likely be further disappointed by this decision. But while  I 
genuinely wish both her and her health  well, for the reasons given above I wont  be directing 
Unum to do anything.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1854409