K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  wont  refund to him the 
money that he paid for a holiday.  His complaint  is made  against  Barclaycard under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Mr F used  his Barclaycard  to pay for part of the cost of a fourteen  day overseas holiday for 
his wife and himself. Other members of their family booked the same holiday but that was 
booked and paid for separately so doesnt form part of Mr Fs complaint. Barclaycard says 
that the total cost of the holiday  was £5,078.56.  
Mr F wasnt happy with the quality  of the hotel  or the services that were  provided. He 
complained to the holiday companys representative  and he then paid £258 for flights  home  
after only three days of the holiday.  He complained to the holiday company and if offered 
him a £500  holiday voucher. He then claimed a refund  from Barclaycard under  section  75. It 
offered to refund half of the amount that hed paid for the holiday  and it paid him £50 
compensation. But he didnt accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought that there 
had been a breach of contract  by the holiday company as the standard  of the holiday wasnt  
of the five star and premium quality that Mr F had paid for. So she said that it would be fair 
for Barclaycard to give Mr F a full refund for all unused days  of the holiday, a 50% refund for 
the days that he was at the resort and a refund of the £258 that he paid for flights  to return  
home after three days.
Barclaycard has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It believes 
that its offer to refund  £2,540 (50% of the total cost of the holiday) is the fair and reasonable 
way to offer a goodwill  payment. And it says thats  because theres no breakdown of the 
individual costs  incurred  by Mr F and its offer is based upon the total cost of the holiday of 
£5,078.56.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Fs complaint about Barclaycard, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday 
company and that Barclaycards response to his claim under  section  75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr Fs claim under section  75 as only a court 
would be able to do that.
The hotel at which Mr F booked to stay is a five star hotel and it was advertised as a 
premium hotel by the holiday  company. But the description of the hotel and its facilities that 
hes given  which is supported by the photos  that hes provided  shows  that the hotel and 
its facilities that were provided to him fell significantly  below the standard that I consider it 
was reasonable  for him to expect from a five star premium hotel. He raised his concerns with 
the holiday companys representative in the resort   and whilst  some of the issues could be 
Ref: DRN18713822addressed, Barclaycard accepts that not all of the issues were resolved. And Mr F felt 
strongly enough about the unresolved issues that he chose to end his holiday after only 
three days and booked flights to return home. I consider it to be unlikely  that he wouldve 
taken that action unless there had been significant  issues with the hotel and its facilities.  
For these reasons, Im persuaded  that theres been  a breach of contract by the holiday 
company  for which  Barclaycard  is liable under section 75. Barclaycard has offered  to 
refund half of the cost of the holiday to Mr F as a gesture of goodwill. But I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances for it to refund more  than that amount 
to Mr F.
The holiday  invoice doesnt show the amounts that Mr F paid for different parts of the 
holiday. But the total holiday  cost was £5,078.56 for a 14 day holiday. That equates  to a total 
cost of £362.75 for each day of the holiday.  Mr F and his wife stayed  at the hotel for three  
days and did have  use of the hotel and its facilities during that time. But I consider that the 
quality and standard of the hotel  and its facilities were significantly lower than they were 
entitled to receive.  So I find that that it would  be fair and reasonable for Barclaycard  to 
refund to them 50% of the daily holiday cost for each of those three days (which  is a total of 
£544.13). Mr F and his wife returned home after three days  so then didnt use the hotel or its 
facilities. And I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to refund them  the 
full daily holiday cost for each of those eleven days (which is a total of £3,990.25). And I find 
that it would  also be fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to refund to Mr F the £258 that he 
paid for the flights to travel home after three days.  That gives a total refund to Mr F of 
£4,792.38.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. And I order Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard, to refund a total of £4,792.38 to Mr F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1871382