K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont meet their claim for a boiler  
that theyd had to replace. They made the claim under their landlords  insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G bought  a landlords  insurance  policy. They say they bought  it largely because  
it offered to pay the cost of repairing or replacing a boiler that broke  down.
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs Gs tenant said the carbon monoxide alarm  had gone off  
and theyd felt unwell  the next day. Mr and Mrs G arranged for the boiler  to be inspected  and 
it was discovered that there were high carbon monoxide readings  and that the boiler  case 
seals and flue were  obsolete. The contractor capped  off the gas supply to stop the boiler 
from being used  as it was unsafe.
Mr and Mrs G contacted  UKI, which said it would consider the claim. UKI then said it 
wouldnt meet the claim as the boiler hadnt  actually broken  down as the policy defined.
Mr and Mrs G complained, but UKI didnt change its stance. So they brought their complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think, initially, that UKI need  meet the claim. But they later said they 
thought it should, because switching  off the gas supply was a sudden  stoppage  as defined 
in the policy. UKI doesnt think thats  fair, so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint, albeit  for somewhat  different  reasons from that of our 
investigator.
For Mr and Mrs G to make a successful claim,  they must first show  that whats  called an 
insured event has taken  place. In this case Mr and Mrs G say their boiler has broken down. 
Looking at the policy terms and conditions I can see that Mr and Mrs Gs boiler is covered  
boilers are included in the list of covered equipment. 
Its for Mr and Mrs G to show that their boiler has broken down  as defined in the policy. UKI 
says they havent done  that. So Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs G have told us 
and considered this in light of the terms and conditions. The relevant wording is:
Breakdown
a the actual breaking failure  distortion or burning out of any part of the Covered Equipment  
whilst in ordinary use arising from defects in the Covered Equipment causing its sudden
stoppage and necessitating repair  or replacement  before it can resume work.
The information Mr and Mrs G sent us says that the boiler case  seal and flue are obsolete, 
and theres an additional  comment of will not fire. The engineer  switched off the gas to 
prevent the boiler from being used.
Ref: DRN19848522Our investigator thought the fact that the gas had been switched off meant there was a 
sudden stoppage.  UKI says the boiler was still working, so there was no sudden stoppage. 
I dont think whether switching off the gas is a sudden stoppage or not means I cant reach  a 
fair decision here. 
Thats because Ive considered the rest of the wording. 
Having done so, I think there are two relevant points. First, I think  there has been a failure  
of the case and flue (which are part of the boiler), because they are leaking carbon 
monoxide. Mr and Mrs G sent us some evidence  to show theyd had the boiler  checked  and 
declared safe to use about six months earlier, so I think its fair to say there wasnt a leak at 
that point. The engineers  report  also says,  alongside the comments  on the flue and casing, 
will not fire. I think thats a sudden stoppage  as defined  in the policy:  it suggests theres 
an underlying  problem with the boiler, which might  be contributing to the leak.  
UKI told Mr and Mrs G that the boiler hadnt  suffered an electrical or mechanical breakdown, 
so hadnt met the description of a breakdown in the policy.  I dont think  UKI can rely on that 
argument for two reasons. First, I think the report suggests there has been a mechanical  or 
electrical breakdown,  if the boiler will not fire. But even  if that werent the case,  I havent  
seen anything in the policy that says a breakdown has to be for one of these two reasons. 
So it wouldnt be fair for UKI to impose  that restriction when assessing if a failure has 
occurred. 
It follows that I think UKI should have accepted this claim. It could then have considered 
whether there were any reasons  commonly called exclusions  in the policy  that meant it 
need not meet the claim. But UKI decided not to do that, and Mr and Mrs G have, 
understandably, had the boiler replaced. So theres  no longer any way for UKI to apply  any 
exclusions. Without a valid reason not to, UKI should  meet  the claim.
Mr and Mrs G paid £1,380  to replace the boiler  in November 2018. Theyve had to meet this 
cost out of their own funds. So I think its fair for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs G this amount plus 
interest at the statutory  rate to make up for the fact that theyve been  out of pocket for some 
time. 
I agree  with our investigator that Mr and Mrs G have  been caused some  inconvenience by 
UKIs handling of this claim, and I think the £100  compensation for this is appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs G have also told us they think UKI mis-sold the policy, because  they were  
enticed into buying it by the promises made  in UKIs advertising. Weve  suggested  they raise 
this as a separate complaint should they wish to do so, and Ill leave it with Mr and Mrs G to 
decide what they want to do about that.
Ref: DRN19848523my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order U K Insurance Limited  to:
Meet this claim by paying the cost of the replacement boiler and fitting  (£1,380),  plus 
interest* at 8% simple per annum  from the date Mr and Mrs G paid for this to the date 
of refund.
Pay £100 compensation for the way it dealt with the claim.
*HMRC may require UKI to deduct  tax from this interest before making payment, and UKI 
must give Mr and Mrs G a tax certificate showing  this deduction  if they ask for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1984852