K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to reinstate her No Claims Discount (NCD) and reimburse her 
for the resulting increased premium. 
background
Mrs J said her car was damaged by a tile falling from a neighbours roof and she made a 
claim to AXA.  Mrs J wanted AXA to pursue the neighbours insurer  to recover its outlay so 
the claim wouldnt affect her NCD. The other insurer reimbursed  Mrs J for her policy  excess, 
but it didnt admit liability. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought AXA hadnt 
reasonably investigated the claim as it hadnt  contacted the other insurer  for answers to 
questions about  the weather and the state of the roof. It had treated the loss as 
unrecoverable and so Mrs Js NCD would be affected.  The investigator thought AXA should  
make enquiries with the other insurer and pay Mrs J £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
AXA agreed to do this. It paid Mrs J £100 compensation. But it didnt pursue the other 
insurer until further prompted by our investigator. The other  insurer  then asked for evidence 
that its client was negligent  and AXA said it couldnt  show this. But our investigator  still didnt 
think that AXA had done enough.  She thought it should ask the other insurer to provide its 
clients version of events and evidence that there had been a storm on the date in question. 
And she thought  it should ask why the other  insurer had reimbursed Mrs Js policy excess.  
Mrs J replied that she expected her NCD restored and her premium refunded. AXA didnt 
respond to the investigators view. So the complaints come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now over a year since Mrs Js car was damaged.  I can understand her frustration that 
she hasnt had the response  she wants from AXA. AXA didnt recover  its losses. So Mrs J 
has been held at fault for the claim and her NCD was affected  leading  to an increase in 
premium. 
I can understand that Mrs J thinks this is unfair  as she did nothing wrong. But I cant  say that 
its unreasonable for AXA to record a fault where it doesnt recover  its outlay as thats 
standard industry practice. So I cant require AXA to restore Mrs Js NCD or refund her 
premium increase at this point.  
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to about  the claim.  Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Ref: DRN12311842AXA is entitled under  the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs J to take over,  defend, 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mrs J has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability. And I agree with the investigator that AXA hasnt done  enough  in this particular 
case. Ill now explain why I think this. 
When Mrs J first complained, AXA hadnt  contacted the other  insurer at all to confirm its 
position on liability. The other insurer had reimbursed Mrs Js excess  which I think may 
indicate that it thought liability was in question. But I cant  see that AXA has raised this with 
the other insurer. 
AXA told Mrs J that there  was evidence of storm conditions  on the date of the incident. It 
said it would  need  to show that the neighbour hadnt  reasonably maintained  their roof. The 
other insurer later asked AXA for proof  of negligence. 
But I think its for the other insurer to respond to AXAs allegations  and show that its client 
wasnt negligent. The investigator suggested that this could be done  by providing weather 
reports for the date of the incident.  I can see from its file that AXA has already checked the 
weather reports,  but I havent seen  evidence of the outcome. This would show  whether or 
not thered been a storm which could decide whether negligence could be proven.  
Theres also the question  of whether the neighbour reasonably maintained their roof. I can 
see that Mrs J provided photographs of the neighbours  roof with the missing  tile and of the 
tile itself. AXA said it didnt have evidence that the neighbour was aware that the roof was in 
a poor condition but did nothing about  it. But I cant see that its asked this question of 
anyone. So I think AXA should also obtain  an account from the neighbour regarding the 
incident to consider before making  its decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to do 
the following  and to then reconsider Mrs Js claim:
Ask the other insurer  for its clients version  of events and evidence of the weather 
conditions at the time. 
Ask the other insurer  why it reimbursed Mrs Js policy excess  if its client  wasnt 
negligent. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1231184