K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Ageas  Insurance Limited  has refused to cover  a claim under his legal
expenses insurance  policy.
All references to Ageas  include its claim handlers.
background
Mr C was in dispute  with his former employer and instructed  barristers  to act for him. Mr C 
got advice from a barrister. Mr Cs barrister told him he had a reasonable chance of success 
in his claim against his former employer. 
Mr C made  a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy to cover his legal costs. 
Ageas referred  it to one of its panel  of Queens  Counsel (QC) to assess  whether it had 
reasonable chances of succeeding,  as required by the policy.  It would usually get advice 
from a Barrister but as Mr C had already had a barrister look into the issue  it decided  to get 
advice from the QC.
The QC reviewed Mr Cs case and said there wasnt reasonable prospect of success.  As a 
result, Ageas  didnt agree to provide cover. Mr C complained to Ageas, he was unhappy that 
it wouldnt review the legal advice given by his barrister or allow him the opportunity  to 
respond to the QCs opinion. 
Mr C asked our service  to look into things for him. Our investigator reviewed the complaint
and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She didnt think  it was unreasonable for Ageas to
rely on the legal  advice  it received from the QC it instructed.
Mr C disagreed, in summary he said:
He was told he could  respond to the legal opinion if he disagreed.
He shouldve been given the opportunity  to agree on the person appointed to assess 
the claim.
There were  factual  errors in the advice from the QC and Mr C felt the information  
provided to the QC wasnt read. So, Ageas should look into the matter
further and seek  further advice.
Our investigator explained to Mr C that our role is to look at the insurers handling of a claim 
under the legal expenses  policy.  She said that if Mr C is unhappy with the QCs conduct, he 
should address  it directly  with the QC or through the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
my provisional decision  and the parties responses
I issued a provisional decision and in summary, I said:
Ref: DRN14029042I didnt think it is reasonable to ask Ageas to pay for Mr Cs barrister costs.  This is 
because I was satisfied  based on the evidence that Ageas  didnt ask Mr Cs barrister  
to provide a legal  opinion.
As the QC is more  senior than a Barrister I felt Ageas were entitled  to rely on the 
advice it received and it didnt need to give Mr C or his Barrister an opportunity to 
respond. However, I felt Ageas hadnt been fair to Mr C. This is because  Mr C and 
his barrister were led to believe they would be given an opportunity  to respond  to the 
legal opinion  if they had any concerns. I appreciate Ageas were  entitled to ask the 
QC to provide advice.  But as a result of the advice given to Mr C he put a lot of effort 
into responding to the legal opinion. He then had to argue  the reasons why he felt 
Ageas should  pass his response  to the QC to be reviewed.  Ageas shouldve made 
Mr C aware that it was going  to appoint a QC and what this meant  for him. For these 
reasons I recommended  Ageas should compensate Mr C for the additional trouble 
and upset caused to him. I recommended Ageas pay Mr C £500  to recognise the 
impact on him.
Ageas  treated Mr C fairly by seeking  legal advice about  the prospects of success. 
And it was entitled to rely on the QCs advice as it sent the QC all the information it 
held to reach their opinion. 
Ageas  didnt need to seek Mr Cs approval to instruct or consult him when appointing 
the QC. 
Ageas responded to the provisional decision and disagreed with the compensation of £500  I 
recommended to award. Ageas didnt make any further submissions for me to consider. 
Mr C disagreed with what  I said in my provisional decision. In response to my provisional 
decision Mr C referred me to additional  evidence. The additional  evidence  included a legal 
opinion from a QC which he appointed.
Mr C said:
You will be aware that I consider  Insurers are contractually obliged  to reimburse me 
the cost of Counsels Opinion that they had required in order  to consider  my Claim.
 It is an accepted fact the Counsel  appointed  by the Insurer (a QC) provided an 
Opinion that concluded I did not have a legally  tenable  case against my former 
employer; an Opinion the QC reached  on the basis of fundamentally incorrect  facts  
and contradicted the Opinion of Mr Cs Barrister, a specialist barrister in 
employment law.
Also in the same letter from Ageas (of 29 April 2016) the Insurer  stated,  as 
explanation for the need to instruct  their own QC; The advice of (Mr Cs Barrister) 
cannot be said to be independent if you will be instructing him to represent  you and 
pursue this claim as a direct access barrister. It would be helpful if the Ombudsman 
could indicate  a view as to whether the Insurer  acted  reasonably  in providing an 
explanation for seeking an Opinion  from their own barrister  on the grounds that the 
barrister I had approached, a member of the Bar, cannot be deemed  to be 
independent?
Ref: DRN14029043I respectfully suggest that it is an omission  not to include in the Decision  of the 
Ombudsman the extract from the Policy  Wording  on which  I have relied as a basis  for 
my complaint that states (paragraph  5 of the Policy); We may if We see fit require 
that You obtain  Counsels Opinion from a barrister  agreed by You and Us, as to the 
merits of a proposed  claim  for Civil Proceedings. You will be responsible for the costs 
of obtaining the Opinion, but if this indicates  that there are reasonable grounds for 
the pursuit of a claim or Civil Proceedings, We will refund Counsels fees.
we will require written  confirmation  from (Mr Cs barrister) confirming that it is now 
necessary to issue court proceedings in respect  of the claim, that request was, in 
effect, seeking an Opinion from the barrister. If that same  question had been asked 
of the Insurers nominated QC, he could only have advised that it was not then 
necessary to issue court proceedings, given his conclusion with regard  to the legal  
merits of the case. The fact that, in contrast, when  I posed  the question to my 
nominated barrister, at the specific request and requirement of the Insurer, the 
barrister responded  with a positive response only goes to show  that the answer was 
not an absolute  fact but was a matter of Opinion.
In order to provide  the specific point of Opinion the Insurer  had demanded, it was 
necessary for the barrister  to carry out a full review  of the evidence and 
correspondence, culminating in his providing  the Opinion  that it was necessary to 
issue legal proceedings. Paragraph 5 of the Policy terms states that Insurer  will 
refund the cost of the Opinion provided by Counsel at the request of Insurers,  
providing the barrister  confirms that there are reasonable grounds  for pursuit of a 
claim, which is precisely the advice my nominated Counsel  provided in his Opinion 
that it was necessary  to issue proceedings. On this point, should the Ombudsman 
reach a differing legal  interpretation of the Policy wording, please  would you confirm 
that my only course for appeal thereafter  would be through  the Courts?
From  the outset, it is a misrepresentation in the Provisional Decision of the 
Ombudsman to record  that; Mr C says that ... there were errors  in the QCs advice.  
That is not what I have  claimed;  I was never  seeking  to contest a QCs legal Opinion 
but I was seeking  to correct some salient features of the factual matrix of the case, 
which was patently fundamental to the construction of the QCs Opinion. I contend 
that it was unreasonable of the Insurers not to take account Page 3 of 4  of the 
factual errors contained in the QCs Opinion and to refuse  to co-operate in allowing 
the QC to have the advantage of considering  those corrected  facts.
I would  be interested  to learn from the Ombudsman whether it is reasonable in his 
view that, once  the Insurer had decided on its own accord to embark  on seeking  the 
Opinion of another barrister (the QC), the Insurer should then reject  any attempt to 
correct the factual errors in the QCs advice  on the grounds  of cost. On 18 January 
2017, the Insurer advised me; As previously advised this (QC) is the highest level of 
barrister and we have incurred high costs  to obtain  this. Therefore, we do not have 
any justifiable reason  to obtain  further detail from them. It is very common in the 
Industry that Insurers ask their legal advisers to refine an Opinion on the basis  of 
corrected facts.
The Ombudsman has commended  the Insurer in its advice to me; Im glad to see 
Aegeas did explain that Mr C could contact  the QC directly and pay any costs if he 
wanted a response to the additional he was raising about the legal opinion. Firstly, I 
Ref: DRN14029044repeat that this is an inaccurate statement because it was not the QCs legal Opinion 
that was of concern but the incorrect facts upon which the QC had based  his 
understanding of the case.  
When I approached the QC directly,  he responded in e-mail correspondence (23 
February 2017  copy attached, and see also e-mail of 17 February 2017, attached).  
His response included;  I am not obliged to debate my Opinion with you nor do I 
intend to do so. That is, if I may say so politely but firmly,  the end of matters.  You are 
aware of the Legal Ombudsman  Service. It is my professional duty to point out that 
Exchange Chambers has its own internal Complaints Procedure  details of which  can 
be found on Chambers website. You have  not been supplied  with this previously as 
you have never  been  my client. I initiated a complaint to the QCs Chambers, which 
culminated in the reply  I received from the Head of Chambers  on 27 April 2017 (copy 
attached). Her response included; Mr A (the Practice Manager) has clarified  the 
position with your insurers and I confirm that they have not instructed or authorised 
us to deal with this matter  further.  Any complaint about their reliance on the Opinion 
of (the QC) would have to be addressed to them and not Chambers.  I understand 
from Mr A that they agree  with this analysis.
This leads me onto my final observation at page  2 of the Provisional Decision that 
states; She (the investigator) said that if Mr C is unhappy with the QCs conduct, he 
should address  it directly  with the QC or through the Legal Ombudsman.  The advice 
of the investigator  is patently wrong  and misconceived, as borne out by the facts. 
Because the Insurer (and not I) had instructed the QC I have no legal recourse either 
to the QCs Chambers of the Legal  Ombudsman. Furthermore the Insurers  own legal 
advisors commented (see attached e-mail correspondence of 27 April 2017);   As 
you were not a client of the QC,  I do not believe that the Legal Ombudsman would 
have jurisdiction to consider this matter.  It would be helpful if the Ombudsman could 
advise on the validity of the investigators suggestions to me regarding  how I might  
seek remedy in connection with my complaint.
I do not consider  that the Ombudsmans proposal of compensation in the sum of 
£500 for additional trouble and upset caused to him is a satisfactorily outcome. The 
Ombudsman has not addressed the core issue of my complaint that where  the 
Insurer has taken it upon itself to nominate a QC to provide an additional legal 
Opinion on a matter that has the effect of denying me indemnity under the Policy, 
then the Insurer  should demonstrate its duty of care towards me by ensuring that 
where the QCs Opinion is shown to be based on an incorrect factual matrix, the 
Insurer takes the reasonable and simple  action of requiring  the QC to correct those 
errors of fact and then seek  a revision  of the QCs Opinion,  accordingly. That is all I 
have asked for and no reasonable  explanation has been presented why Insurers  will 
not seek to correct factual errors in their QCs Opinion, that could well produce 
amendment to the legal Opinion  and thus result  in indemnity under the Policy.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, I dont intend to depart
from my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN14029045Mr C and his QC have  responded to my provisional decision and provided detailed  
submissions. I would like to assure them  that I have read and considered everything they 
have provided, but I have  only commented  on the information that I consider being pertinent 
to the points raised in Mr Cs complaint
the terms of the policy
Mr Cs QC has reviewed the terms of the policy and said:
Clause 8 states:  
The insurer may, at their discretion, require you to obtain at your expense,  an opinion from 
a barrister chosen by you and the insurer, as to the merits of a claim or proceedings. If the 
barristers opinion indicates that there are reasonable grounds for the pursuit of or defence 
of a claim or proceedings,  the insurer will pay the cost of obtaining the opinion.  
13. I have considered Clause 8 in the context of the policy document itself. There  is clearly  
no reference in Clause 8 to Ageas only being  liable to reimburse if they have advised  that 
they would  do that. The contractual condition of payment is the receipt of an opinion from a 
barrister that that there are reasonable grounds for the pursuit of a claim or proceedings. (Mr 
Cs barrister) provided that opinion, as requested and required by Ageas.
I consider that it is clear  on those facts that on a proper construction  of clause 8 and taking 
account of the correspondence and Ageas requirement that an opinion  be obtained as to 
whether it was necessary to commence proceedings, Insurers  are clearly obliged to pay the 
cost of obtaining that opinion.
Ive taken on board the comments made  by the QC appointed by Mr C. My role is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable given all the circumstances.  
I have considered the terms and conditions which say:
We may if We see fit require that You obtain Counsels Opinion from a barrister agreed by 
You and Us, as to the merits of a proposed claim for Civil Proceedings. You will be 
responsible for the costs of obtaining the Opinion, but if this indicates that there are 
reasonable grounds for the pursuit of a claim or Civil Proceedings, We will refund Counsels 
fees.
In my view, it was reasonable that Ageas didnt offer to refund  Mr C his legal  costs.  I say that 
because Ive carefully considered the correspondence between  Mr Cs barrister  and Ageas. 
Ageas did explain  to Mr Cs barrister in their letter that they intended  to seek their own 
advice on whether Mr Cs claim had reasonable prospects of success. They didnt require  or 
ask Mr C to get a legal  opinion  from his barrister. It follows that Ageas doesnt need to refund 
him the cost his barrister is charging for providing  the legal opinion.
Mr C wanted my comments on Ageas  saying  they wanted to get a legal opinion from a third 
party because Mr Cs barrister wouldnt be independent. Mr Cs has asked whether it was 
reasonable for Ageas to use this as a reason  to seek an alternative legal opinion. I think  its 
important to remember its usual  practice  for an insurance company to seek  a legal opinion 
on the prospects  of success. I appreciate Ageas saying that Mr Cs barrister  wasnt 
Ref: DRN14029046independent isnt helpful. But Im satisfied that Ageas  were  entitled get their own legal  
opinion.  
complaint to QC and practice manager
Mr C has now provided additional  information including the correspondence he had with the 
QC and the practice  manager. The QC has explained that he was not obliged to debate  his 
opinion with Mr C. The practice  manager explained that they cannot deal with any complaint 
about the insurers reliance on the QCs advice. In the provisional decision I said:
Mr C says that the QC took some information  out of context and that there were errors in 
the QCs advice.  All these  points raised  by the consumer relate specifically to the legal 
opinion of the QC. I think Mr C is aware  of this but to be clear, we cant  consider complaints 
about the advice or service received by a firm of solicitors  or QC because theyre not under 
Ageas control.  They are independent professionals with their own regulator and complaints
procedures. If Mr C remains unhappy  with the legal advice, hes free to complain directly to
them or to the Legal Ombudsman.
I can consider whether  it was fair for Ageas to act on the advice given by the QC. And check
to see that it provided  the QC with all the relevant evidence and information Mr C and his
barrister had provided.
As I said in my provisional decision it is my role to consider the actions of the insurer.  I can 
see that Mr C has contacted the QC and Practice manager with his concerns. It isnt for our 
service to say what complaints a practice  manager or the legal ombudsman can or cannot 
consider. 
was Ageas entitled to rely on the QCs opinion?
Mr C is saying the QCs advice was based on factually incorrect  information. He explains:
I was never  seeking  to contest a QCs legal  Opinion but I was seeking to correct some 
salient features of the factual matrix of the case, which  was patently fundamental to the 
construction of the QCs Opinion. I contend that it was unreasonable of the Insurers  not to 
take account Page 3 of 4 of the factual  errors  contained in the QCs Opinion  and to refuse  to 
co-operate in allowing  the QC to have the advantage of considering those corrected  facts.
I havent seen  any factually incorrect information  was passed to the QC. The QC received all 
the information which Mr C provided.  Mr C disagrees strongly with the QCs interpretation of 
facts presented to him. But I havent  seen  any evidence to satisfy  me that Ageas shouldnt 
have relied on the legal opinion of the experienced QC they appointed. 
Ageas referred  Mr Cs claim to a QC, who said he wasnt likely to be successful. Ageas
is entitled to rely on that advice. So it was reasonable for Ageas to refuse the claim, based 
on that advice.  I do appreciate that Mr C feels very strongly about the issue.  
I do think Ageas caused Mr C distress and inconvenience.  Ageas  shouldnt have misled     
Mr C and his barrister  into thinking they could respond to the QCs legal opinion. And from 
looking at everything  I think Ageas did cause delays when looking into things for Mr C. 
Because of this, Im recommending that Ageas pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset 
theyve caused.  
Ref: DRN14029047In summary,  I set out my reasons for coming  to this conclusion  in my provisional decision 
and Mr C hasnt provided any new information that leads  me to a different  conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Mr Cs complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited should be upheld in part. I uphold  Mr Cs complaint about  the service  
Ageas Insurance Limited provided to him. I dont uphold the remainder of Mr Cs complaint. 
And to put things  right, Ageas Insurance Limited  should pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and 
upset theyve caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1402904