K820x#14complaint
Ms C and Mr C complain  about the valuation The Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Ireland used when  deciding  whether to increase  the amount they could borrow on a property 
they let out.
 
background
Ms C and Mr C bought a Buy to Let (BTL) property in February 2003. When  they purchased 
the property it was valued at £75,000.  In August 2007, Mr C made  an approach to the 
business to discuss  the possibility of additional borrowing to purchase  another  property.
The business carried out a desktop  valuation using a house  price index and valued the 
property at over £130,000. As a result  of this valuation and the level of the rental income,  
Ms C and Mr C were  able to borrow an additional £45,000 secured on this property.
Ms C and Mr C do not believe the valuation in August 2007 was correct and think  the 
business lent to them irresponsibly.
To resolve  the complaint,  Ms C and Mr C would like the business to write  off the additional 
£45,000 that was lent in 2007. They would also like for the business to acknowledge that 
they unfairly over valued your property in August 2007.
The investigator issued  two views. In the first view she said it is not unreasonable  for lenders 
to rely on a house  price index to assess the valuation of a property and is a common 
practice across the industry. If there was a dispute regarding  the valuation,  she would have 
expected that Ms C and Mr C would raise it at that point, and potentially undertake their own 
valuation or ask the business to appeal the valuation. She noted that at the time of the 
additional lending  Mr C thought the property was worth between £120,000 and £130,000. 
Whilst she appreciated Ms C had provided  sold house prices  for nearby properties which 
suggested the property was worth  less she noted  this would only come to light once a 
request to appeal the valuation had been communicated  to the business. This may have 
changed or may not have  changed the value  of the property. She also noted  that the 
additional borrowing  took place at a time of house price volatility  and that as a result  of Ms C 
and Mr C being BTL borrowers she would have  expected them  to take professional advice to 
inform them  of their decision.
Ms C disagreed. She provided  evidence of average  house prices from around the time of the 
additional borrowing  and from the 2005  to 2018.  She says the business lent over £100,000 
on a property knowing it was only worth £75,000 to £80,000 at best. No reputable bank 
would  she says - agree to lend money which places itself and its client  in obvious, blatant 
financial risk. The bank  is a professional  money lender and cannot simply hide behind a third 
party valuation model to avoid claims of reckless  lending. Ms C also raised further questions 
about the use of the index.
Ref: DRN17222582The investigator issued  a second  view.  In it she said when she originally investigated the 
complaint she considered  whether the business  had done anything  wrong and she was 
satisfied that the lender had done  what it should  have. She couldnt say that the business 
has done anything  wrong as, it was entitled to rely on the information available to it at the 
time. It was not unreasonable for the business to rely on an industry  index to value the 
property. She appreciated the comments Ms C had made about the sold house prices and 
that as a result that the index must  have  been  wrong. But in her opinion,  lower house prices  
still did not mean that the business  wasnt reasonably entitled to rely on the index it used at 
the time.
The investigator also said she had looked  at the point Ms C had raised regarding the post 
code that had been used,  and whether the correct  postal  code was used for the property to 
arrive at the valuation  amount.  She explained how the valuation  is arrived at is, the post 
code is used and the first valuation amount is keyed into the automated  system.  She could 
see the correct date and valuation were  inputted.  The new valuation is then automatically 
populated using those figures  from the index. She was satisfied no human error occurred on 
the part of the business regarding the generation of the 2007 valuation  amount.
Ms C disagreed. She maintains that the business are professional money lenders with 
significant experience The index it chose  to use is  she says - a great  tool to identify 
regional house price  trends but is not suitable  for valuing  specific individual  properties.  If the 
business had used the appropriate tool the situation would never have arisen,  as the 
customer she has no control how the business  chooses to value a property. She has 
provided further detailed evidence to show why the index doesnt work in the case of her 
property and more  widely.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms C and Mr Cs frustration  at what has happened here. If the property is 
sold then the amount  it is expected to sell for wouldnt  cover the amount they owe.  They feel 
that if the business hadnt lent them money based on an over inflated  valuation they wouldnt 
be in this position.
The protections for a borrower  of a BTL mortgage  arent the same as the protections  for a 
borrower for a residential mortgage. This is because, in part, BTL borrowers are seen as 
professional borrowers.  Ms C has explained  that she left Mr C to run their property business 
and she signed  documents when asked. I can see in this context how discovering the 
property is in negative  equity would be even more  frustrating. But I cant hold the business 
responsible for how Ms C and Mr C decided to divide up responsibilities  between  
themselves.
It is not unusual  for a business to carry out a desktop exercise  using an index when 
considering further  lending.  And doing  so is not evidence, in and of itself, that the lending is 
irresponsible. Mr C was told that this is how the property would be valued. They  were  both 
professional borrowers   regardless of whether Ms C chose to involve herself in the running 
of their property business  and had they been unhappy with the valuation could have 
obtained their own professional  valuation. 
Ref: DRN17222583Ms C has said she had no choice  in how the business decided to value the property. This 
isnt entirely true. If she had thought the business  had used  an incorrect  value she could 
have appealed the valuation. The bank  would then have sent a valuer to value the property. 
Ms C and Mr C did not do this.
Looking at the evidence Ive seen,  it looks like they were trying to maximise the amount  they 
could borrow to enable  them to purchase  more  property  and that was their priority at the 
time. I dont think it would be fair to hold the business responsible for this. Ms C and Mr C 
have had the benefit of the money  they borrowed.
Like the investigator I note that Mr C told the business that he thought the property was 
worth between £120,000 and £130,000 before he was told what figure the index the 
business used  had produced. It therefore seems  that  despite  what Ms C thinks now  
there must have been some indicators that the property had a value at this level 
notwithstanding the evidence Ms C has produced now.
Overall, whilst I have  sympathy for Ms C and Mr C, I dont  think  it would be fair to say the 
business acted  unfairly  or irresponsibly when it made its decision to increase the amount it 
lent secured on Ms C and Mr Cs property. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722258