K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the involvement  of an appointed representative of Hanbury Wealth 
Management Ltd (Hanbury), Nockolds Wealth (Nockolds),  in the transfer  of his defined 
benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal pension scheme. Mr D says Nockolds 
contributed to or caused delays in the transfer process, and that he has suffered  a loss as a 
result. He also says Nockolds failed to advise him at the outset that the transfer may take a 
long time.  
background
Mr D initially approached Nockolds in September 2016. At that time, Mr D had already 
requested a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) for his DB scheme  benefits,  which  was 
guaranteed until 16 December 2016.  It was recorded that Mr D wanted to transfer out of the 
DB scheme  to a personal pension  because  he wanted flexibility  on when he took his 
benefits, to manage  the investment of his pension himself, and had concerns about the 
security of the DB scheme.  
A further  discussion took place between Nockolds on 1 November 2016. The file Nockolds 
has provided to us contains  a note summarising  the discussion which took place then. That 
recorded that Mr D was reluctant to pay the fees associated with DB transfer advice, and 
that Nockolds  had explained  to Mr D he had no choice but to take advice, given the value of 
his DB scheme benefits, and it had provided  the details of the cheapest option it could give.  
That option  was referral to another business,  which Ill call Firm A. Nockolds itself was not 
able to give advice  on DB pensions,  so a referral to another business was the only option it 
could give  and it said Firm A was the cheapest business it could refer Mr D to. 
It seems  that later in November there  was some further discussion about fees which  resulted 
in Mr D agreeing to pay Firm As fees for the advice  he needed, if his transfer out of the DB 
scheme were to proceed.  Nockolds  then asked Firm A to commence work.  
The transfer completed in early  June 2017.  There is a lengthy  detailed timeline of the events 
which took place  between Firm A commencing work  and the transfer completing. I have 
considered this carefully, but will not set out the detail in full here. It is sufficient to say that 
Mr D feels things could have progressed  much more quickly than they did and that the 
administrator of the DB scheme, Firm A and Nockolds all caused or contributed to the delays 
he feels occurred. Mr D made complaints  to Firm A and the administrator of the DB scheme 
about the part he felt they had played  in things. The latter was referred to The Pensions 
Advisor Service (TPAS) and the former  was initially  looked at by us, before being referred to 
the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS), as Firm A went  into administration. 
Mr D has let us know  he is unhappy  with how the FSCS have dealt with his claim against 
Firm A and has sent us a copy of the correspondence he sent to the FSCS about that. 
Our adjudicator concluded that the complaint against Nockolds (for which Hanbury is 
responsible) should  not be upheld. He said,  in summary: 
The crux of this complaint is the length  of time it took to complete the transfer  and 
any loss that caused.  That and any distress  it caused is all that we would look at 
awarding any compensation  for  so that really  is the central issue.  
So he needed  to consider if Nockolds  caused   or significantly increased - the length 
of time it took to complete the transfer. 
Ref: DRN10290422He had looked back at the timeline of events. This shows an 11 day period between  
4 and 15 November  2016 between Mr D giving the go-ahead  and Nockolds referring 
the case to Firm A. He thought that was the only delay that he could attribute to 
Nockolds.
This is much less than the 99 days it took the administrator of the DB scheme to 
provide the information requested by Firm A. So the 11 days Hanbury took to refer 
the case to Firm A did not cause the original transfer  deadline to be missed.  It 
wouldve been missed  even  without it.
The rest of the timeline spans 249 days from the first meeting on 26 September 2016 
to the transfer  payment being made  on 2 June  2017. Numerous other parties  were  
involved in different ways. He did not think it would be reasonable to say Nockolds 
contributed significantly  to the length of time the transfer took.
It seems  the initial transfer  value  was never  likely  to be secured. In any event, the 
transfer value  is the cash equivalent  cost of providing similar  benefits  to those given 
up. So the fall in transfer value is not a real loss. There  is an opportunity cost to not 
being able to invest the proceeds sooner. But for the reasons given, he did not think  
he could hold Nockolds to account for that.
Mr D did not accept this view. He said, in summary: 
Nockolds had an obligation to advise him at the outset  (or subsequently) that the 
target date couldnt ever be achieved. The adjudicator may well be right to say the 
initial transfer value was never  likely to be secured. But that is the benefit of 
hindsight. Its clear  that he should have been  advised of this, but wasnt.  Nockolds 
failed to advise  him, even when it knew this was very likely to happen. It accepted  his 
instruction in full knowledge that the initial transfer  date would be missed. 
The fact that it actually took six to seven months to complete the transfer isnt 
acceptable and at no point was he advised  of this likelihood. 
It is not right to say he has not lost money.  If the deadline had been met he would 
have received a higher transfer value than he eventually did. He received about 
£60,000 less than the original amount  a real loss. 
The failure to advise initially and subsequently of the likelihood  of missing the date 
and when he could  expect completion,  impacted the opportunity cost of not having 
use of funds. 
This has caused a great deal of stress. He has a health issue,  which is worsened by 
stress. Nockolds refusal to accept any responsibility and the numerous  delays in 
providing timely answers to us have left him high and dry. 
Nockolds are absolutely at fault in the areas that he has highlighted even if it is 
believed the eventual time taken  was appropriate (a view he does not accept). 
Nockolds has never acted in the best interests  of its client. 
Mr D has recently  written  to us to say our investigation, in his view,  should be focussed on 
two key questions:
Ref: DRN10290423Did Nockolds accept the mandate of transfer, knowing the apparently tight deadline 
(through its experience in this area) was impossible to meet?  (he thinks  the answer 
to this is yes)
Did Nockolds at any stage advise  the deadline was impossible,  very unlikely or even 
perhaps not likely to be met given the work that needed  to be done?  (he thinks the 
answer to this is no)
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the adjudicators view on this complaint Mr D has maintained his view on the 
timescale (i.e. that things took longer  than they ought to have)  but focussed on Nockolds 
communication, and awareness, of the CETV  expiry  date and likely timescales. In short, 
Mr D says Nockolds did not tell him the transfer might  not complete before the CETV he had 
been given expired, and of how long things might  take. 
Like the adjudicator,  I think  the key point to consider  is whether Nockolds caused  or 
significantly increased - the delay  in the transfer  completing that Mr D considers occurred. I 
say this as the basis of Mr Ds complaint is the lower CETV he received and the loss of 
investment opportunity, which  are both consequences of the time taken for the transfer to 
complete. However,  for completeness, I have considered the point he has latterly made 
about Nockolds  communication,  and awareness,  of the CETV expiry date and likely 
timescales. 
The available evidence suggests  Nockolds was mindful of the CETV expiry date and did 
take steps to make  Mr D aware the CETV  might  expire before  things  completed.  
Nockolds file note of 1 November 2016 includes the following: 
I also reminded [Mr D] that in view of the point  previously made about the time it can take 
and Guaranteed  CETV expiring in December,  as we are now in early November he needs to
decide very quickly as there is a real possibility  any transfer will not be completed within the
guarantee period.
And its file note of 29 November 2016 includes the following: 
Called (Mr D) to provide an update on progress and warn that deadline is in danger of being 
missed 
The evidence also suggests Mr D was aware  the CETV might  expire  before things 
completed. Nockolds  highlighted  the following emails from Mr D to it, in its response to the 
complaint: 
A 12 December 2016 email which included the following:
"I assume  if the delays  are with the administrator  they will feel obliged to honour the 
guaranteed value. I would hope  your people are keeping a good  log of the 
dates/times/number of requests for info that are causing the delays in case of any imminent 
disputes.
Ref: DRN10290424A 20 December 2016 email which included the following:
Hi [name of advisor], Given how close the deadline  was to this point I will be pretty  annoyed 
with them  if they change it much in an adverse fashion  and Unless  [name  of Mr Ds former  
employer] say otherwise  can't  we carry on with the assumption they are happy to proceed 
with the current  value?  i.e Don't give them an excuse to knock  it down?
So, although  I do not think this is the key point to consider, I am satisfied Nuckolds acted 
fairly and reasonably, in terms of taking account  of the CETV expiry date and making Mr D 
aware of the possibility  of the transfer  not completing before the CETV  he had been given 
expired. 
I have not seen any evidence to show Nuckolds  told Mr D how long the transfer would take  
and I know he feels this should have happened. But I think Nuckolds  acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to this too. I say this as a DB scheme transfer is a complex process  
involving a number of parties and I do not think Nuckolds could reasonably  have foreseen  
how long this particular  transfer would take at the outset. And also because  it seems,  from 
the available  evidence, that Mr D was aware of how things were progressing  throughout, in 
any event. Nockolds highlighted the following further emails from Mr D to it, in its response  to 
the complaint:  
A 9 January  2017 email  which included  the following:
Happy new year. I can foresee problems with the delays of the scheme and I will be using 
their incredibly slow responses against them if they downgrade values. It's not acceptable. I 
will write a note direct to them myself, not that they answer me either  most  of the time.
A 27 January 2017 email which included the following:
[the DB scheme administrator] have sent me new transfer value  document, which  has been 
knocked down  by about 60k. Have you received a copy  and should  we speak to them about 
that as they contributed significantly to the delays taking us past the previous guarantee 
period
Nockolds file note of 14 March 2017  also includes  the following:  
[Mr D] is still waiting  to hear from [the DB scheme administrator] regarding  his complaint 
about the failure to supply information when requested and wants to wait as long as possible  
before making  a final decision  to transfer giving  [the DB scheme  administrator] as much time 
to answer his complaint as possible.
So I think it is clear Mr D was closely following the progress  of things and aware  how long 
they were taking  to the extent he made a complaint to the administrator of the DB scheme 
long before the transfer completed. 
Moving to the issue of the overall time taken   which, as mentioned, I think  is the key point in 
this complaint  like the adjudicator, I have  not seen sufficient evidence to conclude  
Nockolds did anything  to significantly extend  the length  of time the transfer took.  
I have carefully considered all the available evidence, which  sets out in detail all the events 
which occurred throughout the transfer process.  Having done  so, whilst I can understand 
Ref: DRN10290425Mr Ds disappointment  with the overall  time it took for the transfer to complete, I have  not 
seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that Nockolds did anything  to cause a significant delay 
in the transfer  completing. The timeline  of events shows there were aspects of the transfer 
process  such as the DB scheme  administrator responding  to the information request from 
Firm A - that took a long time. But these are not aspects Nockolds was responsible for. So if 
there were delays associated with these aspects (and I make no finding on that here,  as Im 
only considering  the acts of Nockolds)  it would  not be fair or reasonable to say Nockholds 
should be responsible, wholly or partly, for any loss arising from any delay. 
The adjudicator referred  to a 11 day period between 4 and 15 November 2016 between 
Mr D giving the go ahead and Nockolds referring  the case  to Firm A. I agree with the 
adjudicator that this does appear, on the face of it, to be a delay - insofar as it might  be 
argued action could have been taken more quickly. But I do not think,  in the circumstances,  
it would  be fair and reasonable to say compensation should be paid for that delay. I do not 
think it caused significant extra trouble for Mr D, or significantly  impacted the overall  
timescale. 
In his view the adjudicator  commented  on whether Mr D had suffered a loss as a result of 
the length of time taken for the transfer to complete. Mr D took issue  with the adjudicators 
finding on this point. But this isnt something  I am going to consider here, as the question  of 
whether or not a loss has been suffered  and how such a loss might be fairly  assessed  
only arises if I think it is fair and reasonable to say Nockholds caused a delay. And for the 
reasons given, I do not think  it is fair and reasonable to say Nockholds  caused a delay.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
John Pattinson
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1029042