K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) changed  his Passport account to an 
Advance account with an insurance aspects  add-on in 2014 without his agreement. In addition  Mr 
D says that the insurance aspects shouldve been  removed  when  he complained about it being 
added in 2014 and that he was told he had to keep  this add-on when he couldve cancelled it.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked into this complaint already and they did not think that HSBC  had 
done anything  wrong in relation to this. They explained that HSBC had provided an application  
form from 2011 which demonstrates that Mr D agreed to change  his account to an Advance 
account. In addition that when this account  was rebranded to an account  with insurance aspects 
HSBC had done what it needed to do to notify Mr D of the changes.  And finally  they were not 
persuaded that Mr D asked to cancel the insurance  aspects or was told at this point that he could 
not cancel if he wished to do so.
Mr D did not agree with this and asked for an ombudsman  to look at this complaint and make  a 
final decision. Please note that I am not looking into the original sale of the Advance  account as it 
does not seem as if Mr D has complained about  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged 
bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr Ds complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. Having done  so and while  
I know that this will be disappointing for Mr D, Im not upholding this complaint. Id like to explain 
why in a bit more  detail.
Mr D has said that his account was changed from a Passport account  to a current account with an 
Insurance Aspects add-on.  From what I can see though Mr Ds account was changed prior to this 
from the Passport account to the Advance account  in 2011. HSBC  has provided an application 
form from the time to demonstrate this.
In 2014, Mr Ds account was change from a fee paid Advance  account to a fee free Advance  
account with insurance  aspects. This was essentially a rebranding of the Advance account rather  
than a sale so HSBC did not have  to gain the approval of Mr D to do this. HSBC did though have to 
communicate these  changes to Mr D and from what I have been provided I am satisfied that HSBC 
did send Mr D a letter informing him of this. I note that Mr D said he did not get a copy  of this letter  
but HSBC did enough by sending this letter. So overall I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in 
relation to this.
Mr D says that he asked  for the insurances  to be removed from his account  in 2014 and that he 
was told that he had to keep them during a phone  call. HSBC does not have a record of this call 
and given how long ago this call took place  I dont think that this is surprising. However,  from the e-
mail he has provided I cant  see that he did make a specific request for the account to be 
downgraded instead he is expressing dissatisfaction in general about the add-on. In addition, to 
this I think that it is unlikely that he would be told that he could not cancel  the Insurance  Aspects  
during a call when he had already been  sent a letter saying that he could cancel prior to this and 
that the final response letter issued  after this point also said that he could cancel. I note Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN17029312comments that he did not receive  this final response but given  that it is correctly  addressed  I think 
that it is more likely than not that this wouldve been  received.  So I do not think  that HSBC  owe Mr 
D any money in relation  to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Ds to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1702931