K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint relates to his home  emergency insurance policy.  He is unhappy that in 
2017 the policy was transferred from his existing  provider to Homeserve  Membership 
Limited. He says he wasnt told this was happening and that the premium  increased 
significantly at renewal.
background
Mr C had a home emergency policy with a utilities supplier  in late 2016.  The premium  for the 
policy was £198.  However, Mr C was given a discount on the premium of £73.80 meaning 
he was charged £124.20  for the policy. 
The utilities  supplier sold its home emergency  business to Homeserve and all of the policies 
like Mr Cs were  transferred. Mr C was sent a letter by the utilities supplier in February  2017  
explaining this was happening. 
Homeserve also sent Mr C a letter in February 2017 explaining that the policy with it 
provided broader cover, but it was honouring the premium previously agreed.  It was also 
explained that the direct debit instruction would be updated and the details would show  
Homeserve on Mr Cs bank statements, rather than the utility supplier.  
Mr C says he didnt receive the letters from Homeserve or the utility  supplier  and didnt know  
about the transfer of his policy.
In April and October 2017 Homeserve sent engineers to Mr Cs home  due to problems  with 
the central heating  system and to complete its annual service. 
In November 2017 Homeserve offered to renew  Mr Cs policy, but the premium  quoted  was 
£306.72. Mr C wasnt happy with the increase in cost and complained. Homeserve offered to 
reduce the premium to £235, but Mr C wasnt satisfied  this was a fair premium and referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. Initially  
he explained  that there was nothing wrong with Mr Cs old insurer  transferring the policy to 
Homeserve and that Homeserve had maintained the terms and conditions of that policy for 
the remaining  term of the policy. The adjudicator went on to explain that we could not dictate 
what an insurer charged for its policies. The information we had about how the new premium 
had been calculated indicated it was done  by its normal  method; taking  account  of risk 
factors such  as claims history  and property location. So out adjudicator thought  that Mr C 
had been treated the same way as any other Homeserve customers  in similar 
circumstances. He didnt  think  he could reasonably ask Homeserve to offer Mr C a lower 
premium for his policy. 
Mr C didnt accept the adjudicators view.  As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14809992Mr C has queried the transfer of his policy to Homeserve and said he wasnt  informed this 
was happening at the time. It is not unusual for financial services  providers to transfer books 
of business to other providers when they change the activities  and products they decide to 
offer going  forward.  In this case, both the old and new policy providers wrote to Mr C about 
the transfer. I note that he has said he didnt receive  these letters,  but they were correctly 
addressed. Whilst some  post does go missing, the majority of it is delivered correctly and I 
think it more likely than not that these letters were  delivered, although Mr C may not have 
realised their importance at the time. It would also appear he was able to contact  Homeserve 
on more than one occasion after the transfer.
Its important  to understand that this service  doesnt  normally assess whether a policy 
provides good  value  for money based  on the risk it presents to the insurer. Thats for the 
insurer to decide  based on its appetite for risk and its business  requirements more 
generally. We generally accept that insurers can charge what  they like for insurance so long 
as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should apply their chosen  pricing  
model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to shop around and change insurer  
if they wish. I am satisfied  thats the case here.  
Insurers all assess  risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another. Insurers 
will also use different data when  assessing the risk posed. Thats  not unfair. We wouldnt 
generally tell an insurer that it should  use, or discount, specific data. The risk is the insurers  
to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will charge a price accordingly. Each year,  
an insurer is entitled to reassess its risk factors when  setting the price  of its policies. So 
prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. 
As I have detailed above, the policy Homeserve provided Mr C with gave him more  cover 
than the policy he took out with the utility supplier. Whilst the additional cover  was effectively 
provided free of charge  in the year of the transfer,  Homeserve was entitled to charge the 
correct premium for the policy from the renewal. It was also allowed to underwrite the policy 
using its own criteria and price it accordingly. I havent seen any evidence that the premium 
Homeserve proposed to charge Mr C was unfairly  calculated. Indeed from the evidence  
provided, it appears to be in line with other  similar  policies for consumers who live in the 
same area and with a similar claims history as Mr C.
Whilst I know this will disappoint Mr C, I dont think Homeserve did anything wrong when it 
offered him a policy  at the premium it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my decision 
before 9 January 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1480999