K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt 
with the settling of his credit agreement for a car. 
background
In August  2015  Mr M entered into a four year hire purchase agreement for a car. The 
agreement was for 48 monthly payments  and then a single payment of just over £9,000 
should he decide he wished to keep  the car.
In August  2018  Mr M decided he did not wish to keep the car any longer and so made 
enquiries at a dealership. The dealership  agreed to purchase the car for £11,000.  It obtained 
the settlement  figure for the agreement from VWFSs system and advised Mr M that he 
would need to pay the shortfall amount of around £1,300 to clear the balance  owing under 
the agreement.
A few days  later Mr M phoned VWFS and asked  for the settlement figure for the agreement.  
The agent  confirmed  that the amount due to settle the account was £12,300  and that this 
figure would be valid for 28 days. Mr M asked about  the direct  debit that was due to go out of 
his account shortly and the agent informed  him that this payment couldnt be cancelled as it 
was due to go out the following day. Mr M was told the direct  debit payment would be 
refunded to him once the settlement figure had been  received by VWFS and cleared.
Mr M phoned VWHS four days  later and asked if there was a revised settlement figure  for 
his account. He told the agent he intended to settle his account  via the dealership.  The 
agent informed  Mr M that the settlement figure  already given was still valid until September  
2018. Mr M asked whether the amount would be reduced due to the direct debit payment 
having been taken. The agent told Mr M that he could either pay the settlement figure 
deducting the direct debit  amount or pay the full settlement amount and the direct  debit 
payment would be refunded about  10 days later.
In September  2018 Mr M phoned  VWFS  again  to say that he had made payment to the 
dealership and so wanted  the direct  debit to be cancelled. The agent explained that, as yet, 
no funds from the dealership had been received which meant  the agreement was still live. 
The agent  advised Mr M not to cancel the direct debit as this could have an impact  on his 
credit rating as the payment  was still due under the agreement.
Mr M says he asked  the dealership when the payment was going to be made  and was told 
not until the following week. He was unhappy at the delay in settling the agreement  and that 
VWFS took the direct debit and then took 10 days to refund it to him.
Mr M complained to VWFS. It didnt uphold  his complaint. It said that Mr M was unhappy at 
the length of time the dealership had taken  in settling his account  and that due to this delay 
the direct  debit payment had been taken. VWFS said these were  things  that were  the 
responsibility of the dealership and not itself and so the complaint should be made to them.
Mr M was unhappy at VWFSs response and complained  to this service.  He said that the 
settlement figure appeared to have changed without  explanation and that while hed been on 
holiday a further  £1,342  had been taken from his account causing  him financial difficulties. 
Mr M was also unhappy that it had taken 10 days to have the direct debit repaid and that 
hed received arrears  letters.
Ref: DRN15762812Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
couldnt see that Mr M had raised  discrepancies with the settlement figures with VWFS when 
looking at its case notes,  nor had he raised this point during  the phone  calls. VWFS also 
hadnt addressed  this point in its complaint response letter  to him. She said Mr M would  
need to make a new complaint to VWFS  about  that to allow it to investigate.
Our adjudicator said that looking at the screenshot of the bank statement provided by Mr M 
this had shown  that the £1,342  had been  paid to the dealership and not VWFS  so any query 
about that would need to be made to the dealership.
VWFS had provided a statement of Mr Ms account  which had shown that the settlement 
figure was not received until mid September 2018.  Our adjudicator said that as payment was 
made to the dealership it had been  their responsibility to forward  the funds to VWFS. It had 
been the dealership that had caused  the delay and it would be unfair to hold VWFS 
responsible for the actions of the dealership.
Our adjudicator said VWFS had refunded the direct  debit  within  the10 days  that it had 
previously said this would take to arrange during the call with Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view as he said he thought several of the issues 
hadnt been addressed  such  a receiving a default  notice when hed been applying  for a 
mortgage. He said he thought the settlement figure  had been plucked from thin air and hed 
been told he would be able to give the car back in the third year of the agreement with 
nothing further  to pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For this service to become involved in a complaint about a regulated  activity  then the 
business concerned must first be given an opportunity  to investigate what it is thats  being  
complained about.  Ive seen that Mr M has raised  a number of things he is unhappy  about  
that dont appear  to have been  the subject of a direct complaint to VWFS first. And so VWFS 
hasnt investigated  issues about  the settlement  figure changing, or about arrears  letters  and 
a default notice being served, or whether  Mr M was misled about when he could  end the 
agreement without making any further  payment. So, while  I appreciate Mr M will be 
frustrated that Im not going to deal with these matters it would be unfair  for me to do so 
without allowing VWFS to investigate them first. If Mr M wishes  to pursue these then he will 
need to make a new complaint to VWFS  first and then if he is unhappy with the outcome he 
can complain again to this service.
Ive seen copies  of the contact notes between Mr M and VWFS and listened  to three calls 
made by Mr M to VWFS.  From  what Ive read and heard Im aware that Mr M wanted to end 
the agreement  early by settling it as his personal  circumstances  had changed. This isnt the 
same as voluntary  termination of the agreement as Mr M was selling the car to the 
dealership rather  than returning  it to VWFS.
VWFS says the settlement figure was obtained by the dealership that had agreed to buy the 
car from Mr M and this was obtained by it using the computer system. VWFS didnt discuss 
the settlement  figure with the dealership over the phone. Listening to the calls between Mr M 
Ref: DRN15762813and VWFS Ive heard  that one settlement  figure was provided that was valid for 28 days  and 
ended at the end of July 2018, and then a new figure was provided again  for a further 28 
days expiring in September 2018.  The second  settlement  was a lower amount  as I would 
expect as Mr M was making payments via his monthly direct  debits.
Mr M told VWFS that he would settle  the account  through the dealership  rather  than making 
any payments direct  to VWFS.  VWFS  explained that until the settlement cleared his account  
would be live and so payments would be due. This meant that if he cancelled  his direct debit 
this could have  a negative impact on his account.  Ive seen that Mr M didnt cancel his direct 
debit and a payment was taken from his bank  account in September  2018. 
Mr M says that he paid the dealership  the shortfall  amount to settle his account  and that this 
amount was taken  again when he was on holiday. Hes provided  a bank statement to show  
this payment was made in September 2018  and Ive seen this payment was made  to the 
dealership. I havent  seen  any evidence  that VWFS  debited  £1,300  from Mr Ms bank 
account at any time to cover any shortfall in the settlement.  So if a payment was taken in 
error Mr M needs to raise this with the dealership and I cant  reasonably hold VWFS  liable 
for the actions of the dealership if it unfairly took money from Mr M.
Ive seen that VWFS didnt receive  the settlement funds for Mr Ms account until mid-
September 2018. This was after the date the direct debit for the agreement  had been paid. 
During the phone  calls with VWFS  the position of the direct  debit payment was discussed 
and Mr M was given clear advice by the agent that he could either deduct the direct debit 
amount from any shortfall payment he made or, once  the account  was settled, this amount 
would be repaid. Mr M didnt deduct this amount but opted for it to be refunded  later. And 
Ive seen this refund  was made  10 days after the settlement funds were received and the 
account closed.  I cant reasonably say that VWFS  delayed  in reimbursing this money.
Looking at the evidence it would appear that the dealership delayed  in sending over the 
funds to VWFS and so again Mr M would need to complain directly  to them about that 
matter. I cant  reasonably say that VWFS has acted  unfairly to Mr M in the way it has 
handled the settling of his account and Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1576281