K821x#15complaint
Mr L is not happy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  handled his travel 
insurance claim. 
Any reference to URV includes  its representatives and any agents. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy
of my provisional decision and it forms part of this, my final decision.
Mr L had a single trip insurance policy with URV. In May 2016, Mr L travelled  to the USA and
unfortunately experienced a fall. He was taken to a hospital by ambulance,  where he
received epidural  steroid injections to help with the pain he was experiencing in his back and
legs. After being  discharged from hospital, Mr L stayed in a hotel for a few days and
arranged his own return flight  home.
Mr L has said URV didnt support him whilst he was unwell. Specifically, hes said he was left 
waiting three  days for a call from a UK doctor. Hes also said he was refused extra treatment 
as URV  didnt send  a guarantee  of payment to the hospital. Hes also unhappy he was 
chased for medical bills and needed to arrange  his own return  flight.
URV didnt  think they did anything  wrong, as they said Mr L didnt  request  any assistance 
whilst he was in hospital and he arranged his return flight, before they had the opportunity  to 
help. They also said they arent responsible for the standard of care he received in hospital. 
In relation to the medical bills, theyve said the initial bills were  excessive,  but theyve since 
made a reasonable payment for the treatment Mr L received.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I was intending to uphold the complaint and direct 
URV to pay Mr L £600 compensation  for the trouble  and upset they caused him. I also said 
URV should refund the cost of Mr Ls return flight, and cover the cost of each extra  night he 
stayed in a hotel before flying home.  However,  I didnt think  URV were required to pay the 
hospitalisation benefit to Mr L. I also said it wasnt appropriate to consider Mr Ls legal 
assistance and total disablement claims as part of this complaint.
Both Mr L and URV accepted my provisional  decision. However,  URV  asked for clarification 
of the interest  calculation  I proposed  for the settlement. This is because they felt the interest 
should be applied  from the date the claim was submitted rather  than from the date of 
payment. It also became  apparent,  that Mr L had already received a refund for the cost of his 
flight, and the hospitalisation  benefit  had been  paid to him as part of a separate  complaint.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from the 
findings I set out in it. 
Ref: DRN17184412Following the further information Ive received URV  isnt required to refund the cost of Mr Ls 
flight again as hes already received that. Ive also specified the interest calculation  that 
should be applied  below. 
putting things right
I understand that Mr L has received  the payment already but for clarity Ive set out the 
redress calculation below.  Im directing URV  to:
Cover the cost of each night Mr L says he stayed in a hotel whilst he was making 
arrangements to fly home.  As Mr L hasnt  got receipts for every  night, URV should 
pay an average price based on the receipts Mr L has provided.  URV should add 8% 
simple interest from the date the claim was submitted to the date of settlement.+
Pay Mr L a total of £600  compensation for the significant customer service failings 
URV made throughout  this claim.  
my final decision 
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Union  Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before  16 July 2020
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
+ URV is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid.
Should Mr L request  it, URV should  provide  him with a certificate  showing  how much tax has
been taken off so that, if appropriate,  he can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN17184413COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr L is not happy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled his travel insurance  
claim. 
Any reference  to URV includes its representatives and any agents. 
background
Mr L had a single trip insurance  policy with URV. In May 2016, Mr L travelled to the USA and 
unfortunately experienced  a fall. He was taken to a hospital by ambulance, where he received  
epidural steroid injections to help with the pain he was experiencing  in his back and legs.  After being  
discharged from hospital,  Mr L stayed in a hotel for a few days  and arranged his own return flight 
home.
After returning from the USA, Mr L received invoices from health providers  and debt collectors asking  
him for payment of the medical bills. Hes explained that this caused him considerable distress as he 
was still recovering from his injuries at the time. He received the last of these letters in 2017, so it now 
appears that these bills may have been  settled.  
Mr L is unhappy as he believes URV didnt  support him whilst he was unwell. Specifically, hes said 
he was left waiting three days, for a call from a UK doctor. Hes also said he was refused extra  
treatment and discharged from hospital because URV didnt send the guarantee of payment. Hes 
also unhappy  he needed  to arrange  his own flight home and as mentioned above,  hes upset  about 
the medical bills he received. 
In response to the complaint, URV explained that they didnt  do anything  wrong as their system notes 
dont suggest Mr L was waiting for any assistance whilst he was in hospital. Theyve  also said he was 
only covered  for emergency  treatment and they arent responsible for the level of care he received 
from the hospital. Mr L also arranged  his own flight home, before they had the opportunity to help him. 
In relation to the medical bills, theyve  explained that the initial invoices  were excessive, but theyve 
since made a reasonable payment for the treatment  Mr L received.
Theyve also said the delay in paying the medical  bills was because Mr L didnt pay the policy excess  
straight away, and one health provider  didnt  provide an acceptable invoice  until March 2017. 
Our investigator didnt think URV had done anything wrong,  but as Mr L disagreed, Ive considered 
the complaint afresh.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ls fall and the significant injuries he experienced because  of it. I 
appreciate he went through a very upsetting and worrying  time.  
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat
them fairly
Ref: DRN17184414Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and
its customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant industry guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject  a claim  (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
support whilst in hospital
On 24 May 2016, Mr L was admitted to hospital by ambulance. On 25 May 2016, the hospital  called  
URV and notified them of his admission. During this call, URV requested a medical report and said 
they would need Mr L to sign a consent form. On the same day, URV called Mr L and they also told 
him the documentation they needed. In response, Mr L said that he was in a hospital bed, but he 
would be happy to answer any questions. He also said hed missed  his return flight home so he would 
need help with this. In response,  the agent  said they were doing  everything they could to confirm 
cover.  
URVs system notes  dont show any further contact with Mr L until 4 June 2016. I therefore  think  it 
would have been reasonable for URV to have contacted Mr L or the hospital, to chase the 
documentation and see what support he required. This is especially because  Mr L was travelling 
alone, bed bound and in a vulnerable position. It isnt reasonable they didnt  provide any support just 
because Mr L didnt contact them. URV was aware Mr L was in hospital and receiving  treatment, so 
their response  to this active  claim should have been much more proactive and supportive.
On 3 June  2016, Mr L was discharged from hospital to a hotel. On 4 June  2016, the system notes  
suggest Mr L asked URV to repatriate him. The call recording for this conversation hasnt been 
provided but the notes do say he was upset. They also suggest  Mr L was told URV couldnt do 
anything without  a medical report and they would resend  him a copy  of the consent  form to sign.
On 5 June  2016, URV explained that they hadnt received  the consent  form and they needed this 
before they could help Mr L return home. Based on the system notes, it is unclear when or if this 
document was received.  
On 7 June  2016, Mr L received a call from a doctor at URV.  During this call Mr L explained that hed 
arranged his own flight home for that evening. The doctor asked him if he felt well enough  to travel 
and he said that he did, but he was still in a lot of pain. There is no evidence to suggest  URV had 
either requested  or received a fit to fly at this stage. Mr L has said he needed to wait three days to 
speak to this doctor,  so I think it is likely this call was requested or offered on 4 June 2016. 
Mr L has explained that after returning home, he was admitted to a mental health hospital  as he was 
depressed and struggled to cope with what had happened. Mr L hasnt provided  evidence to support 
this but his testimony on this point has been credible and persuasive.
In light of the above, I do think URV could  have done substantially more  to support Mr L whilst he was 
in hospital and after he was discharged. If URV had contacted Mr L whilst he was in hospital, I think it 
is likely  they would have  received the consent form sooner and, in any event, before he was 
discharged. Alternatively, they may have been able to accept  the claim  on a disclaimer basis.  As Ive 
already explained, Mr L was bed bound and travelling  alone, so I dont think  it was reasonable for 
URV to have waited until Mr L contacted them. 
Ref: DRN17184415As Mr L didnt  receive  any support until 4 June 2016, it is understandable he felt the need to arrange 
his own repatriation. As URV didnt request a fit to fly certificate, it is also unclear if the economy flight 
was the most  appropriate way for him to travel home. This means it is possible, different 
arrangements may have taken place, if URV had been more proactive throughout  the claim. 
denial of treatment  
Mr L has said he was declined any treatment to his ankle and further treatment  to his back, because 
URV didnt guarantee payment of his medical  bills. Based on the contact notes, and the medical  
evidence, there isnt any documentary evidence  to suggest this was the case. It is also clear  Mr L 
received some emergency  treatment. This is because he received injections to reduce the pain in his 
back and his ankle was x-rayed.
However, I do think Mr Ls testimony is persuasive. This is because, as Ive already explained, there 
is nothing to suggest URV  stayed in contact with the hospital during Mr Ls stay. There  is also no 
evidence to suggest URV sent a guarantee of payment. As such, it is plausible the hospital  may have 
been reluctant to carry out any additional treatment, whilst the guarantee of payment was outstanding. 
Mr L has said this was very upsetting as he was told he needed treatment, but he wasnt allowed  to 
have it. URV  isnt responsible for the standard of care Mr L received in the hospital, but as mentioned 
above, I do think  URV let   Mr L down due to their lack of contact and support.
Mr L has also said he unfortunately experienced another injury in relation to his ankle after returning 
home. Hes also provided evidence that he was referred for surgery in 2017 to help improve  things.  
But Ive no evidence to suggest URVs actions contributed to the treatment he needed  back  in the UK.
medical bills
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the ombudsmans 
determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case  is URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides that a direction  may require the respondent,  here URV, to take such steps in 
relation to the complainant  as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate whether or not a court  
could order those steps to be taken. 
The policy terms say URV can: 
Take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made  under  the 
policy. 
In effect, this means that URV has the right to take over the conduct  of a claim - defending or settling 
it in the name of Mr L. But, thats not an unqualified  right.  Legally, in situations  where URVs interests  
conflict with Mr Ls URV has an overarching responsibility to act in good faith,  having regard to Mr Ls 
interests as well as their own. 
Nor were URV entitled to act arbitrarily  about  how to defend  a claim. In deciding whether  and how to 
defend a claim against Mr L, URV  had to focus on the questions arising in that specific claim and 
base their decisions  on the circumstances of the particular case.
The applicable regulations  Ive already stated above lead to a similar conclusion.
Ref: DRN17184416The Regulatory  Guide, published by the FCA, entitled The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment  of Customers (RPPD)  includes the Regulators guidance on what 
the combination  of Principles for Businesses ("the  Principles") and the detailed rules  require  
respectively of providers and distributors of financial services  in certain circumstances to treat 
customers fairly. The RPPD  explains that firms should consider the impact of their action, or inaction, 
on the customer throughout  the life-cycle of the provision of the service.  
Ive also taken  into account what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time of the 
claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their agents to engage  diligently with 
healthcare providers  to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively seeking  a compromise or 
adjudication of their bills. Ill now explain what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Ls treatment  took place in May 2016 and as Ive mentioned above, he subsequently received a 
number of invoices  and debt collection notices. In December 2016, he was told that he shouldnt pay 
these bills as URVs agents were taking  care of them. He was also informed  that URV  believed the 
bills to be excessive. 
In March 2017, URV informed our service that theyd settled two of the three medical bills. They also 
said the final bill was just about to be paid,  due to only recently  receiving the appropriate billing 
documentation. 
As Mr L has said hes no longer being  chased for the payment  of the medical bills, I wont address  
whether the settlement was appropriate. However, Mr L does have the right to raise a new complaint 
about this should he receive further correspondence  in the future  as Im only considering whats 
happened to date.
URV has explained  that the delay in resolving  things was because  Mr L didnt  pay the excess, but I 
would reasonably have expected  them  to have settled the bills minus  the cost of this, if there was any 
delay. I would  also have  expected URV to have promptly requested an alternative bill, if they were  
unhappy with any of the invoices theyd been provided  with. 
It is understandable the delay in settling  the medicals bills caused Mr L considerable distress.  Mr L 
should have been able to rely on URV to settle his bills promptly and this didnt take place.
putting things  right
Mr L also wants to make a claim  for permanent and total disablement, and legal assistance. That 
wasnt something that Mr L initially raised  as part of this complaint and I understand URV is waiting for 
more information from him. Therefore, Im not making a decision about  those points  in this complaint 
as the claim  hasnt been assessed yet. I understand that Mr L wasnt admitted to a public  facility and 
therefore, under the policy terms, I dont think he is entitled to the hospital benefit.  
Mr L paid for his flight to be changed as he missed  his booked flight  home. This isnt in dispute. URV 
should cover  the cost of Mr Ls flight home as they would  have always had to pay for Mr L to get 
home and I can see he minimised his expenses by changing  the flight rather than booking a new one. 
URV should add 8% simple  interest from the date Mr L made  the payments to the date of settlement.+   
Mr L also had to stay in a hotel whilst  he tried to sort out his return  home. Hes provided receipts  for 
some of the nights he stayed  there but not all of them.  I think it is fair and reasonable  URV should  
cover the cost of each night Mr L says he stayed in the hotel, using an average price  based on the 
receipts Mr L has provided. Thats because Mr Ls trip was extended  because  of his fall and he 
missed his original  flight home.  So I think  he ought reasonably be able to expect his insurer to cover 
those additional accommodation costs. URV should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr L made  
the payments to the date of settlement.+
To say sorry for the trouble and upset  URV  caused Mr L throughout his claim, Im intending  on 
awarding £600 compensation. This takes into consideration the unnecessary and substantial  
Ref: DRN17184417increased distress he experienced  whilst  he was away as a result of what  URV did wrong,  the lack of 
support in terms of arranging his own repatriation and the delay in discharging the medical  bills. As 
Ive explained Mr L was travelling alone and in a vulnerable position, so URV should  have done a lot 
more to support  him. The poor service  they provided  is therefore a significant failing. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint. URV and Mr L should  let me know by 20 April 2020. If they 
have any further information which may make a difference  to the outcome of this complaint.  
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
+ URV is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should Mr L 
request it, URV should  provide him with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so 
that, if appropriate,  he can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN1718441