K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough to prevent him from becoming the 
victim of an investment  scam causing him to lose £3,620.
HSBC say theyre not liable for the loss because Mr A authorised  the payments and they 
had no reason to suspect  he might be in the process of being  scammed.  But they accepted 
they could have provided better service when  communicating about their efforts  to recover  
the funds and offered £150 compensation for the impact of this. 
background
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision  in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
this complaint in part for the following reasons. 
1.It is common ground that Mr A authorised  the two payments from his account  
totalling £3,620 on 25 April 2018.  At the time he believed the initial payment of £600 
would be to fund an investment  hed become aware of through social  media. He then 
believed that the second payment of £3020 (made later the same day) was a fee to 
secure the release of the profits from the initial investment (which amounted  to 
around £13,000).  Each payment went to a different new payee  at a different bank 
and both were made from Mr As HSBC account via online banking.
2.I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr A was the victim of a 
scam. He used his security credentials  to make the payments. So, although he did 
not know he was in the process of being  scammed, under the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and the terms and conditions of his account, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
3.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that their customers  were at risk of fraud (among other  things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
4.The first payment Mr A made  as a result of the scam was at 10.05am for £600. This 
payment went to an account  at another bank Ill refer to as H. The second payment 
was for £3,020  which was made  at 4.21pm and went to a bank Ill refer to as M. Ive 
Ref: DRN19713782looked at statements for Mr As account history to assess what usual activity was for 
him and his account. Having done so, I think the payment for £600 is something that 
wouldnt have stood  out to HSBC. It was common for there to be payments for 
greater amounts. And whilst there arent payments  as large  as the second  payment 
of £3,020  there are others that are only for a few hundred pounds  less. Ive taken 
into account that these payments were also to new payees. But even taking that into 
consideration, I dont  think I could  reasonably  expect  HSBC to have had concerns 
that Mr A might be at risk of financial harm due to how unusual  either  of the 
transactions were. Banks have obligations to be alert to fraud  and to act in their 
customers best interests. But at the same time, they cant  be involved in every  
transaction. And as the payments were  made  online with no interaction  with HSBCs 
staff, I cant say that they missed an opportunity to prevent Mr A being  the victim of a 
scam in this way. 
5.Given that I dont think  HSBC reasonably could have prevented the scam, Ive gone  
on to consider whether they did enough to recover Mr As funds once he made them  
aware of the situation. Mr A called HSBC  at 9.12pm on the same day that he made 
the payments.  Generally speaking, Id expect HSBC to inform  the beneficiary  banks 
immediately. Particularly as it is a common feature of scams like these for the funds 
to be quickly withdrawn  or moved on by the scammers responsible. HSBC contacted 
both M and H at around 4.20pm the following day (26 April 2018). Whilst I accept 
there will be a short  time required to take the information from Mr A and then to 
contact the beneficiary bank,  I think HSBC could and should  have acted  sooner  than 
they did. 
6.I understand that once notified, H and M werent able to recover any of Mr As funds. 
So, Ive looked  at whether  HSBC informing them sooner (as I think they ought to 
have done) would have  made a difference to the amount  recovered.  I cant  share the 
details of the beneficiary accounts  for data protection reasons. But Im satisfied that 
HSBCs late notification to M didnt make a difference to the amount recovered.  And 
in relation to H, most of the funds had also already been  withdrawn from that account  
before Mr A had notified HSBC that there  might  be a problem  but £72.42 remained. 
If HSBC had notified H sooner than they did, I think this would  have been  recovered 
and returned to Mr A. I understand  that this is a very small amount relative to Mr As 
loss, but irrespective of that, I think it fair that it should be returned  and that 8% 
simple interest should be added  from 26 April 2018 until the date of settlement. 
7.HSBC accept that the service they provided around communication in the wake  of 
the scam  could  have  been better. Theyve  already offered  £150 compensation for 
this. I understand  that Mr A was unhappy with a variety of issues  including  being  
given conflicting  information, a lack of empathy and not having  his call returned as 
promised. I dont  doubt this was frustrating  for Mr A, particularly with the stress of 
being a recent victim.  I also acknowledge that due to the passage  of time call 
recordings are no longer available. But overall,  I think the £150 HSBC  offered is fair 
and reasonable,  and Im not intending to direct that it be increased.
Following on from this, I further shared with both HSBC and Mr A that there  was a pending 
transaction in the beneficiary account with H that hadnt previously been  taken  into 
consideration. So, I amended my intended  redress to reflect  the new amount (£46.32)  and 
provided a further  opportunity for both sides to comment. 
Ref: DRN19713783Mr A didnt respond to my provisional  decision or further comments. HSBC responded and 
made some further comments. Now both sides have had the opportunity  to comment,  I can 
go ahead  with my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately here, Mr A informed HSBC that there was a problem with the payments hed 
instructed earlier  that day at around  9.00pm. It wasnt until around 4.20pm the following day 
that HSBC informed M and H of this. I think HSBC ought to have passed this on sooner. 
In the case of M, Im satisfied it didnt make  a difference to what  was recovered. But with H, 
on the evening  the report was made £46.32 of available  funds remained.  I think  it would be 
fair and reasonable for HSBC to pay Mr A this amount because I think it is what  most likely 
would have been recovered,  had HSBC contacted H sooner. 
HSBC also questioned whether 8% should  be added  to this amount. They pointed out that 
Mr As account with them doesnt  pay interest.  Ive thought  about  this and I appreciate the 
sums involved are relatively  modest. But it was still money that Mr A was without, that he 
otherwise could have had the use of. And in the circumstances of this complaint, I still think it 
is fair that 8% be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
1.Pay Mr A £46.32 and add to that amount 8% simple  interest  (yearly) between  
26 April 2018 and the date of settlement.
2.Unless it has already  been  paid, pay Mr A £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1971378