K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how a claim on his Aviva legal expenses insurance policy was 
handled. He also feels the policy was mis-sold.
All references to Aviva  include their claims handlers.  Whilst I know they arent one and the 
same, the claims handlers represented  Aviva  when dealing with the claim, so Aviva are 
responsible for any failings in their carrying out this activity.
background
Mr H took out an Aviva  legal expenses insurance  policy in 2012,  which  he renewed each 
year. In 2018  he made a claim  on the policy to bring  a claim against a courier service 
concerning the transportation of a sofa.  
Aviva said it would pass the complaint to one of its panel firms to review. It also warned that 
given the value of the claim (roughly £850), it might not be proportionate to pursue. In those 
circumstances Aviva said the panel firm would endeavour  to offer Mr H some limited cover  to 
assist him with the claim.
The panel  firm reviewed  things and said that although Mr Hs claim had prospects of 
success, it wasnt proportionate to pursue. They offered  to send a letter before action to the 
courier. Mr H wasnt happy with this and challenged the panel  firm, who provided a fuller  
explanation about why the claim wasnt proportionate- giving details of their costs  in 
reviewing the claim and advising on it, which wasnt much less than the sum Mr H was 
claiming from the courier. Aviva then offered  to pay the court  fees in Mr H issuing the claim 
himself. Mr H accepted the issue fee being paid to him, which amounted  to £60. But he 
wasnt happy with how Aviva had dealt with things so complained to them about this. One of 
those complaints was that there  was a lack of clarity  around  the proportionality term in the 
policy, as compared  to the terms in 2012.  
Aviva considered things  and accepted  that there  had been a lack of clarity in the changes  to 
the policy wording  and that it took too long to direct Mr H to the small  claims court. Because 
of this they offered him the value of his claim as compensation, which Mr H accepted.
Mr H then brought his complaint to this service. Ive summarised what hes said about Aviva  
as follows:
1.They failed to confirm  whether his legal expenses insurance claim was properly  
administered. 
2.They failed to address his allegation that the policy was mis-sold  because it offers 
benefits that are unlikely to be provided  and it hasnt explained what cover  is available 
following an insurable event. 
3.They didnt confirm  the circumstances in which a small claim would secure  substantive 
legal assistance  i.e. litigation support rather than just a letter  threatening
litigation.
Mr H wants Aviva to address these points  rather than make vague  promises to consider 
future changes and commit to rewording their policy  terms to be more  transparent. 
Ref: DRN17693392Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint as well as the concerns he took to Aviva 
directly. She didnt think his complaint should be upheld. Mr H doesnt agree, so the matter  
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Hs 
complaint should  be upheld  for the same reasons addressed by our investigator.
I realise Mr H is unhappy about  how our investigator  addressed his complaint  and in 
particular her response to his complaint  points  both to this service and to Aviva. For clarity, I 
dont intend to explore each and every  one of his points in this decision. I shall only be 
addressing his complaint points in summary  form.
Mr H says Aviva failed  to comment on whether his legal expenses claim was properly 
administered. I dont  agree. Aviva  considered  Mr Hs complaint and provided him with a 
response. It concluded  that there had been a lack of clarity in the changes  to the policy  
wording from 2012  to 2013 and beyond and that it took too long to direct  Mr H to the small 
claims court. Because of this they offered him the value of his claim as compensation. I 
know that Mr H wanted  Aviva to provide more detail  about the administration  of his claim but 
I dont think it had to. It took the view that it couldve been clearer  so offered to compensate  
Mr H- which Mr H accepted. So I dont  think Aviva acted unfairly.
And like the investigator, I dont agree that Aviva did anything wrong in the way the claim 
was handled or as a consequence  of the policy terms appearing differently. The policy  terms 
in both 2012 and 2013 contained a proportionality  clause  which  is common  in legal 
expenses insurance  policies. Thats not unreasonable; we wouldnt expect a prudent  person  
to pursue a claim where their costs  would outweigh the value of the claim. An insurer 
shouldnt be expected to either. I realise  the 2013  policy provided more detail about  when it 
might think  costs are unreasonable, but I dont think that means there  was a significant 
change in the policy terms, such that they needed to be drawn  to Mr Hs attention. Despite 
this, these terms were highlighted to Mr H in a summary of changes document  which  was 
sent to him before he decided  to renew  the cover. So it was up to him whether to accept the 
terms as they stood. 
As far as the handling of the claim is concerned, I havent seen anything that makes  me 
think Aviva  declined to cover court proceedings incorrectly. Rather, Aviva administered the 
claim in line with the policy terms and offered to provide some limited  cover to help Mr H, 
given the costs of pursuing the claim at court wouldve been  disproportionate. I note Mr H 
accepted both Avivas  offer to pay him the court  fee to bring the claim against  the courier 
and the cost of the claim, albeit as a form of compensation.  So Mr H has benefitted 
considerably more from his claim than he would otherwise have been entitled to under  the 
policy. 
Mr H has suggested that the benefits  offered by the policy,  particularly in relation to 
disproportionate claims, arent likely  to be covered.  Hes also asked Aviva to explain the 
circumstances in which a small claim would attract funding to trial. As Ive said above, its 
common for legal  expenses insurance policies to exclude claims that are disproportionate to 
pursue. Generally we agree theres  nothing  wrong  with that; it accords  with the rules  courts  
apply to claims and with the actions of a prudent policy holder. And I dont  think that Aviva 
are obliged to explain  the circumstances in which it might cover a small claim to trial. Its true 
Ref: DRN17693393that cover  for those types of claims might be limited because they can generally be 
disproportionate to pursue. But cover  will depend on the nature  of the claim being made and 
the circumstances of each case.  I wouldnt expect Aviva to comment  on a hypothetical  claim 
and nor would this service.
Finally, Mr H should note this service cant require  Aviva  to change the way in which  it words  
its policies. Thats a commercial decision for Aviva  and not something  were able to 
comment on. Should Mr H remain concerned, he can refer this to the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who are the regulators  for Aviva.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against  Aviva  Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1769339