K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
handled their claim for water damage to their house. In particular, theyre unhappy with the 
figure offered in compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a home insurance  policy with RSA. In September 2017 they discovered 
water under their bathroom floor. They reported  it to RSA who sent a loss adjuster (L) to 
inspect their property. At the end of October, a drying company (R) attended. R confirmed 
the escape of water  had caused significant damage  to the building and required a complete 
strip-out of all the rooms.  Further  damage was identified, which  delayed  the property being  
confirmed as dry until December 2017.
Mrs B is unhappy with the handling  of the claim.  She said they faced poor communication  
and had to take time off work. The estimated completion date moved from May to June, then 
July, and the work still hadnt been  properly completed a year after the incident.
Because of the condition of their property, Mr and Mrs B had to move out to alternative 
accommodation found by RSAs appointed agent. On the recommendation of R, some 
personal things  were moved to the garage  where they remained for a year.  Mrs B said the 
alternative accommodation provided  was two farm cottages, surrounded by farmland. She 
said they were told this was their only choice, despite her suggesting alternatives. She said 
the cottages had uncomfortable beds which exacerbated Mr Bs existing back  condition.  And 
Mrs Bs journey to and from work  became 40 miles instead of the usual 26 miles. The 
accommodation had poor internet access so Mrs B couldnt work  from home  and had to stay 
later at work.  And they both had to get up much earlier to reach work on time. This all 
caused a great deal of tiredness and stress.
On returning home  in July 2018,  Mrs B said the work had been  very poorly carried out. This 
meant a further  month of living without furniture  until the work  restarted in September. Then 
they had to move back to the farm, experiencing the earlier  problems again. When they 
moved back home in November 2018,  there were snagging issues.  And some  of their 
possessions had been damaged as a result  of being stored in the garage, so Mrs B had to 
throw away  clothes and other  items.
Mrs B also said they hadnt  been  able to go on holiday, were  unable  to have visits from their 
family and Christmas had been  ruined. They asked for £6,000 in compensation.
Mrs B complained and RSA agreed there were avoidable delays of around three months in 
their original management  of the claim. This was because the contractors (C) didnt appoint 
R until the end of October. And work  only began in late April 2018. RSA also agreed about  
the poor workmanship. So, RSA had all the repairs carried out again at their own expense. 
And agreed  this caused further delay and disruption  of over four months.  They  also accepted  
their and Cs communication  had been poor. RSA apologised and offered Mrs B £1,500 by 
way of a disruption allowance and £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. But 
Mrs B didnt feel this adequately reflected the level of distress  and inconvenience  theyd 
suffered.
In their final response letter in March  2019, RSA apologised  again  and said theyd provided 
feedback to all involved. They explained theyd  instructed an independent surveyor to attend 
Ref: DRN10941592and inspect the completed  works.  And on receipt of his recommendations their claims team  
would reconsider the distress and inconvenience caused. They also invited  Mrs B to submit 
a list of damaged  property  stored  in the garage  for consideration by L. RSA amended  their 
offer to £1,500 by way of disruption allowance and £1,000 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs B complained to us in March 2019 because she felt RSAs  offer of compensation was 
inadequate. In April 2020, our investigator sent out her view. She said she thought  RSA had 
dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly.  So, she wasnt going to ask them  to do any more. She 
said that although she thought the claim had taken  longer than it should, she thought the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs B had been  caused was fairly reflected in the disruption 
allowance of £1,500 and compensation  offer of £1,000.
Mrs B responded saying  their problems had had life-changing implications for Mr Bs health 
and career. The intense stress was a major  contribution towards Mr B developing mental 
health issues and being signed off sick from work  for several months.  And on returning, hed 
had to work fewer hours, in a more minor role with lower pay. These  issues  had also 
affected their relationship.  Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to reassess their compensation.
In May 2020, RSA responded. They explained  that when it became clear  an extension was 
necessary, the accommodation Mrs B was occupying turned out to be pre-booked, which  
was outside their control. RSA said theyd looked  at alternative options  but this would have  
meant Mrs B moving three times. And theyd  agreed on the lease of another  property where  
Mrs B remained for the duration of the repairs. RSA said they thought Mrs B had only had to 
move once. And they said theyd not seen  any evidence  which  would support Mrs Bs claim 
that RSAs actions had caused additional medical  distress to Mr B. They asked to see 
medical evidence  to support the view that their actions had caused  the situation.
In June 2020, our investigator explained to RSA that the impacts on Mr Bs health and 
employment hadnt been mentioned before and as RSA hadnt had the opportunity to 
address them, they needed the opportunity to consider them  now.  In early  July, Mrs B sent 
us information  provided by Mr Bs doctor  and his employer. This set out details of his health 
and employment  issues. And this was sent straight  on to RSA who were  asked to consider 
them in relation to their compensation  offer. RSA has declined  to comment further.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Disruption allowance
Besides providing  alternative accommodation,  which wasnt ideal, more  than once  during  the 
course of the works to Mrs Bs house,  RSA recognised  that there were times when Mr and 
Mrs B were  back  at a house  without contents. They accepted this would have caused 
additional inconvenience. So, RSA has paid a disruption allowance  of £1,500.  And Mrs B 
accepted this. I think the disruption allowance of £1,500 is fair and reasonable, because it 
was obviously unsatisfactory for Mr and Mrs B to have  to stay in the house  as it was, and its 
arguable that they should have been  housed in alternative accommodation  throughout. But 
based on what Id expect to see, I think £1,500  is fair for the period concerned. So, Im glad 
that RSA paid this to Mr and Mrs B.
Distress and inconvenience
Ref: DRN10941593Mr and Mrs B feel that RSAs payment of £1,000 by way of compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience doesnt fairly  reflect the impact all the delays and issues  had on them.
Mrs B has clarified that they moved first to the farm cottage then had to move  to a second 
cottage for a couple of weeks before moving  back to the first cottage, then back to their 
house. Then after they returned home in July, they had to move out again in September to 
an old farm house. So, I accept Mrs B moved more than once - as RSA originally thought.
And I accept  that, while RSA did what they could to find appropriate accommodation,  the 
farm cottages, intended for holiday use, werent  suitable for two working  people  and resulted 
in long days and sleepless  nights over a protracted  period. And Ive no reason to doubt Mrs 
Bs assertion that she put alternatives to RSAs  agent at the outset.  RSA has acknowledged  
the poor works and the fact Mr and Mrs B had to move  out of their home twice, experienced 
very poor communication  from RSA and its agents and had the extreme  concern of what  
was seemingly very poor workmanship. And  as Ive already mentioned - it has paid £1,000 
in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
But, given the further impacts  on Mr Bs health and employment, I dont think  this is enough. 
Mrs B has provided evidence of mental ill health  from Mr Bs doctor and of reduced 
employment status and salary  from his employer. And shes explained how their effect on 
Mr B, in particular, have been life-changing.  RSA asked to see this material  and we passed 
it on to RSA for comment. This was because the circumstances being described were  
contemporaneous with what was already being  considered, and simply enlarged  in greater 
detail on the impacts of RSAs actions which Mrs B had already described  more generally. 
But RSA chose not to comment on this at all or suggest it showed  it should  pay more  
compensation.
And while I dont think all of Mr Bs difficulties can be laid at RSAs door. I say this, as a 
water damage claim like this and moving  out of your home as a result will always have a 
significant impact and also because its not clear from what Ive seen to what extent Mr B 
had pre-existing conditions. But I am satisfied that his health and employment were  affected 
by RSAs actions  to some extent.  And I think the unsuitable accommodation and several  
moves caused considerable distress at an already difficult  time.  And because  I think  these 
directly impacted Mr Bs mental health to some extent and compromised his ability  to work 
full time, I think this created severe distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs B and for 
Mr B in particular. 
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to pay Mr and Mrs B a further  £1,500 by 
way of compensation for distress  and inconvenience. And this would bring the total award  for 
compensation for this to £2,500. This is in addition to the £1,500  RSA has already paid as a 
disruption allowance.
Outstanding works and property stored  in garage
In their final response letter, RSA also agreed to commission an independent inspection  of 
any works that were  outstanding. And they invited  Mrs B to submit  a list of property which 
had been damaged as a result of being  stored in the garage for consideration by L. I think 
this sounds fair and reasonable  and is what I would expect RSA to do. So, I think that if they 
havent yet completed  these steps  then RSA should do so without delay.
Ref: DRN10941594Im aware that Mrs B has also written recently saying a surveyor had pointed out damp 
patches on one of their walls. But I wont be able to consider  this issue  within my decision as 
its only just been  raised.  This will have  to be raised  as a new complaint.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Mr and Mrs B and RSA accepted my provisional decision. So, now the case has been 
passed back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
my final decision
So, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should:
pay Mr and Mrs B a further £1,500 compensation  for distress and inconvenience; and
commission an independent  inspection of outstanding works, and consider a list of 
any property damaged through storage in the garage, if not already completed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2020.
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1094159