K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about financial loss and trouble (and upset) she says she faced as a 
result of a delay in Thesis  Asset  Management Limited (Thesis) transferring her 
Stocks and Shares Individual  Savings  Account (ISA).
background
A summary  of the relevant events (in 2018) is as follows:
The transfer process began, in the main, on 22 June when Thesis received transfer 
documents from the transferee firm and issued the related  termination letter.  The 
transfer instruction  was to liquidate the ISA and then transfer the cash proceeds. 
There is evidence that Mrs M had in place a defined plan for reinvestment of the cash  
proceeds, upon transfer, through the transferee firm. 
Thesis did not begin liquidation of the ISA until 25 July and it concluded this process  
on 31 July. It says the delay in starting  this process was caused by its dealing team  
inadvertently missing the liquidation  instruction that was sent to it.
The transferee firm received the cash proceeds by 3 August and they were  
reinvested thereafter.
Thesis accepts that the transfer should  have concluded sooner than it did. It refers to HMRC  
guidance that the transfer of a non-cash ISA should  be completed within 30 calendar  days 
and it notes that its transfer of Mrs Ms ISA took 12 days longer than this. In terms of 
financial loss, it says none was incurred by Mrs M because  the first available selling date for 
the ISA was 26 June  and the prices that were achieved when the ISA was sold from 25 July 
were better than the prices that would have been achieved on 26 June. However, in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset caused to Mrs M it offered her £100.
Mrs M disagreed with this outcome and referred  the matter  to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into it and also disagreed with Thesis findings. She said Mrs M should 
be paid £200 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her, given the size of her ISA. 
She also considered  that Thesis assessment of her financial  loss omitted evidence of her 
plan for reinvestment.  In this respect she referred to, and shared, evidence  from the 
transferee firm that showed a loss of £5,982.90 Mrs M had incurred in the context of her 
reinvestments. This represents  the additional value her reinvestments  would have if cash 
liquidated and available on the first selling date (26 June) had been used for them. The 
investigator concluded that this loss amount should also be paid to Mrs M as compensation.
Mrs M agreed  with the investigators conclusion but Thesis did not. It considered  it wrong for 
the guidance from HMRC  to be disregarded. It argued that if that guidance  was followed, 
calculation of Mrs Ms reinvestment loss would begin on 22 July (when, starting from the 
outset of the transfer process on 22 June, the 30 calendar days  period in the guidance  would 
have ended) and that based on this start date  and the end date of 3 August when it 
concluded the transfer  her loss is significantly less at £187.79. It asked for a review  on this 
basis and with regards  to the trouble and upset award. The matter was then referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19513242The chronology of the transfer and reinvestment events, as summarised above, does not 
appear to be in dispute and it is supported by available evidence. The same applies to 
Thesis concession that its role in the transfer  process took longer than it should have and 
that the cause  behind  that was its dealing team missing the liquidation instruction. I have 
also verified the evidence, which was shared with Thesis, about  Mrs Ms reinvestment loss.
Given the trouble  and upset caused  to Mrs M by the delayed transfer,  and in the context of 
the value of her ISA, I agree  with the investigators proposal of £200 in compensation to her. 
This is broadly consistent with the type of award,  for trouble and upset,  this service would 
make in cases like hers.  I order Thesis to pay Mrs M £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
to her.
I am persuaded that the context of reinvestment loss is appropriate for the consideration of 
Mrs Ms financial loss claim. It is not enough  to stop at a comparison between  the potential 
ISA sales revenue in June  and the actual sales revenue in July, as Thesis initially  
considered. Transfer  of the ISA was part of a wider  process of reinvestment for Mrs M and 
there is evidence that the relevant reinvestment was executed directly following conclusion  
of the transfer  and directly after cash was available to fund it. Thesis does not appear to 
have challenged  this context but it says the calculation within it should begin from 22 July  
for the reason summarised  above.
The relevant  HMRC guidance  says  ISA transfers should take no longer  than  30 
calendar days  It must also be noted that this services approach is to address each case  
on its facts and merits, so I have taken that approach in Mrs Ms case.
The HMRC  guidance  does not say firms  should use all of 30 calendar days or no less than 
30 calendar days for a Stocks  and Shares ISA transfer. It says such a transfer should take 
no longer than 30 calendar days. The implication  is that there is an expectation in the 
guidance that such transfers would  conclude within 30 calendar days, but should not 
conclude any later. On this basis, there  is much less (or no) support  for Thesis argument 
that the 30th calendar  date (or the next date thereafter) in Mrs Ms case should  be when its 
liability for the delay  began. Instead, its liability  for the delay could  arguably  have begun 
earlier, within the 30 calendar days.
Overall and on the balance of available evidence, I consider that Thesis liability for the delay 
and the reinvestment loss began  when it mishandled the transfer process.  This appears to 
have occurred around 26 June when the ISA could have been liquidated but was not, 
because its dealing team  missed  notice (or instruction)  of the task to do so  this omission 
then appears to have  continued for around  a month.  This was an avoidable  omission and it 
is not an omission that was reasonable for Thesis to commit  especially as it continued,  
seemingly unnoticed,  for a month. By its own admission, such  an omission  is rare in its 
operations. Thesis therefore made  an avoidable and unreasonable  error that directly led to 
the delay and reinvestment loss. Its responsibility  in this respect began from when the error 
was committed and I am satisfied that, on balance, 26 June 2018 is the appropriate date.
Evidence from the transferee firm shows the loss of £5,982.90 in gains that would have been 
made in Mrs Ms reinvestments had they taken place when cash should have been available  
on 26 June 2018  (and compared to when the cash was eventually transferred  on 
3 August 2018). The evidence appears  to be reliable and it is the basis upon which  I order  
Thesis to compensate  Mrs M for the financial loss she incurred  from the delay. 
Ref: DRN19513243I order Thesis  to pay Mrs M £5,982.90  in compensation  for her financial loss and to pay her 
interest on this compensation, at the rate of 8% simple per year,  if this compensation is not 
paid to her within  28 days  of Thesis being informed that she has accepted  this decision. 
Income tax may be payable on the interest payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I order  Thesis  Asset  Management 
Limited to pay her compensation as detailed  above. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1951324