K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited refused to pay a claim he made  on his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Fs car broke down.  He claimed  on his policy for the cost of repairs.  Aviva said that the 
breakdown was caused by wear and tear causing  mechanical failures which  weren't covered 
by Mr Fs policy. So it refused to pay the claim.
Mr F didn't think that was fair and bought  his complaint to us. Our investigator didn't  think  
Aviva had done anything wrong.  Mr F didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I understand Mr F initially took out his policy in 2017 and renewed it in 2018.  Mr F says that 
Aviva didn't  ever send  him his policy documents; so he didn't know that his policy  didn't 
cover wear  and tear or mechanical breakdowns.
It would certainly be unusual for an insurer like Aviva not to provide a policyholder  with 
access to their policy wording when they take out a new policy. But even if that was the case 
I don't think that means Aviva has to pay Mr Fs claim.
Mr Fs sent us the documents  Aviva sent him in 2018 before he renewed his policy. The 
covering letter that came  with those say that Mr F needed to review the details to ensure that 
the policy still met his needs. It also enclosed details of the changes that Aviva had made to 
their policy wording for the next year of Mr Fs policy. And it said that Mr F needed to read 
those carefully together  with your policy booklet . So I think it was clear that it didn't set out 
all of the policies  terms and condition.
Also the document says that the policy booklet was sent to Mr F when he first took out his 
policy but it was also available  online - and Aviva  provided the web address - or Mr F could 
ring the number provided to ask for another copy of the booklet. So even if Aviva hadnt sent 
Mr F a copy of the booklet initially, Aviva had told him how he could get a new copy or read it 
online before  he renewed  his policy.  So I think Aviva  did enough  to make the policy  wording 
available to him.
Also its standard  for all motor insurance  policies Im aware of to exclude claims arising from 
wear and tear or mechanical breakdown.  And I don't know  of any motor insurance  policies  
that offer cover for those  things as standard. Insurance policies don't cover every eventuality  
and given that claims for mechanical breakdown are routinely excluded from motor  policies I 
would expect most motor  insurance policyholders to know that. So I don't think it would be 
reasonable to expect  Aviva to cover  a claim arising  from such a breakdown even if it hadn't 
ever sent the policy wording. 
Ref: DRN14760362my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1476036