K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Even though this was a joint mortgage  only Mr F was covered for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.  Mr and Mrs F paid a monthly  amount for the PPI. If Mr F had made a 
successful claim, the policy would have paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
Mr and Mrs F say National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
In my provisional decision of 13 December  2018  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold 
this complaint. In response to that provisional  decision  neither  NatWest  nor Mr and Mrs F 
had any further  comments to add.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the policy  was optional and they had to 
agree to take it. Mr and Mrs F have told us the PPI wasnt explained to them and they believed 
it was a compulsory part of the mortgage. NatWest have said the optional nature of the policy 
was made clear.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application  from the time of the sale, and this includes a 
separate section  relating to the PPI which asks Do you want Mortgage Repayment 
Protector? and asked  them to read a separate booklet to check  if they were eligible.  The 
application includes a printed Yes  to confirm they chose to take the cover.
Ive also seen Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage offer which stated that they had selected  to take PPI 
and set out the monthly premium and monthly  benefit. And a direct debit mandate  was 
signed by Mrs F to consent to the premiums  being deducted from a bank account. 
There is no mention on any of this paperwork that the policy is compulsory or that it is a 
requirement of the mortgage. So while I cant know exactly what  was said at the time of the 
sale, with what Ive seen,  I think its more likely that NatWest made  it clear  that the PPI was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs F chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs F have  also said that they dont  believe  they were consulted  when the policy 
premium and level of cover was changed  in 2000. Given the length  of time thats passed 
since this happened, its not clear why this change was made, or whether it was done  via 
NatWest or the insurer. But if Mr and Mrs F hadnt  agreed to this then I would have expected 
them to raise this when they noticed  the new,  higher, premiums leaving their account from 
2000 onwards.
Mr and Mrs F have  said they think NatWest recommended the PPI to them, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest a personal  recommendation was made. So as I dont  think  NatWest 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, I dont think it had to check if it was right for them. 
Ref: DRN13220522But it did have to make  sure they got the information  they needed to decide  for themselves if 
it was right for them.   
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI for Mr F - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Mr and Mrs F could have chosen  to share the cover  between them, but it 
appears this didnt happen  so Ive considered whether NatWest made this option clear  to 
them.
From the details of Mr and Mrs Fs salaries  included on the mortgage application, it appears 
that Mr F was the main earner in the household.  Mrs F has said her salary at the time was 
around £4,000  per year, and NatWest has previously said that taking account  of the 
minimum wage she cant have been working full time, and so would  not have been eligible 
for the policy, meaning it wasnt necessary  for them to make  the option  to share the benefit  
clear. However, the national minimum wage didnt come into effect until 1998, after this 
policy was sold, so I dont  think we can say that Mrs Fs salary at the time means she wasnt  
eligible for the policy. 
So with this in mind, I cant be sure that NatWest gave Mr and Mrs F clear  enough  
information to decide whether they wanted to split the benefit  of the policy  between  them.  
And I appreciate theres a possibility that if their options had been  made  clear,  Mr and Mrs F 
might have chosen to share the cover  rather than just taking cover  for Mr F. 
But looking  at the terms of the policy, no matter  how the cover  was set up, the overall cost of 
the policy wouldve  been the same. So although the policy  only covered Mr F, the cost 
wouldnt have changed if the benefit  had been shared between Mr and Mrs F. This means 
that Mr and Mrs F would  only have lost out if Mrs F needed to make a claim,  but Ive seen no 
evidence this happened. So it doesnt appear  that Mr and Mrs F have lost out financially 
because of the way the policy was set up. If Mr and Mrs F do want  to change their PPI policy 
to also cover Mrs F then they can contact  NatWest about that directly.
And it looks like the policy  was suitable  for Mr F given his circumstances at the time. It 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And 
while Ive noted  hes said he had good sick pay and savings, the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of his sick pay. The mortgage was also a significant financial commitment secured 
against Mr and Mrs Fs home. So I think the policy could still have provided a useful benefit   
and some peace of mind   if something had gone wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs F paid on the policy  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for the policy was less than half of what  they paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Fs commission was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs F back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
As neither Mr and Mrs F nor NatWest has said anything to make me change  my mind,  I still 
dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN13220523my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1322052