K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt treat her fairly when she told it 
about her financial  difficulties. In particular, it didnt  allow her to switch her mortgage 
payments to interest  only. 
background
Ms S took out a repayment mortgage  in late 2016  and additional borrowing in 2018. Most of 
her income was maintenance payments from her ex-husband, required by a court  order.  
Ms S says shes in financial  difficulties  because her ex-husband is out of work and unable  to 
pay maintenance. She cant  maintain  her contractual  monthly  payments and asked NatWest 
if she can switch to interest only payments, which she says would be affordable.
NatWest said Ms S didnt  meet its lending  criteria  for an interest  only mortgage. It offered a 
temporary concession. This wasnt acceptable  to Ms S as the arrangement would be 
recorded on her credit  file. Shes concerned this would affect her ability to get credit in future.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said NatWest 
had correctly applied  its lending criteria  when  considering Ms Ss request for an interest  only 
mortgage. And there are genuine concerns about how Ms S would repay  the capital at the 
end of the mortgage term. The investigator said it was fair for NatWest  to ask Ms S to go 
through income and expenditure reviews before it offered concessions  and for any 
concessions to be recorded on her credit  file. 
Ms S didnt agree. Shes confident thered be enough equity in her house  at the end of the 
mortgage term to repay the mortgage  and buy another property. And she says she knows 
people that were offered interest only mortgages on the basis  they will be repaid by the sale 
of the property. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ms S has a mortgage  with NatWest and shes in financial  difficulty.  NatWest  needs to 
consider her circumstances and what concessions it can offer (if any) to help her. Its 
reasonable for NatWest to ask Ms S to provide up to date information  about her income and 
expenditure to help it do this. 
Ms S is having difficulty with her mortgage  payments because she isnt receiving 
maintenance payments from her ex-husband, which were the larger  part of her income.  
Ms S doesnt know when  her ex-husband will resume maintenance payments. When she 
contacted NatWest in March 2019 NatWest offered options, such  as deferred payments for 
three months. Ms S didnt  want a concession or payment arrangement  because  shes 
concerned about  it being  recorded  on her credit file which  could affect her ability to get credit 
in future. But, in the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to offer a 
temporary concession. Ms S has made  interest only payments for a period.
Ref: DRN14573532I can understand why Ms S wants to switch to interest only payments. This would reduce the 
amount she pays each month to an amount she says she can afford.  Ms S believes her 
property value has increased significantly since she took out the mortgage. She doesnt want 
to downsize at the moment as she has four children living  with her. But she says shed be 
able to sell the house and downsize once  the children leave home.  I appreciate her concerns 
about what could  be a series of short  term arrangements  being  recorded on her credit file. 
I can also understand NatWests concerns. NatWest has lending  criteria for interest only 
mortgages. These include criteria for when  the mortgage will be repaid by the sale of the 
property as well as the customers income. Ms S doesnt meet these  lending  criteria. While 
Ms S says NatWest should be more flexible, NatWest has to consider whether a permanent 
switch to interest only is in Ms Ss interests, taking into account  the long term consequences  
and not just the immediate future. It needs to consider how the mortgage  will ultimately  be 
repaid. Property  values  can fall. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to require  NatWest to change  Ms Ss 
payments to interest  only on a permanent basis. NatWest suggests that Ms S contact it to do 
an up to date income and expenditure assessment so that it can assess what  options it can 
offer her. I think thats fair.
There might  come a point at which NatWest  needs to consider whether its appropriate to 
continue to offer temporary concessions. But at the moment I think its fair for NatWest  to 
offer temporary concessions to Ms S, given her ex-partner might  resume maintenance 
payments in the near future. I appreciate that Ms S would prefer not to go through  income  
and expenditure  reviews.  But I think its reasonable for NatWest  to ask for up to date 
information so that it can assess  what concessions to offer to Ms S. 
I dont think its wrong  or unfair for Ms Ss credit file to reflect whats  happened   that shes  
having difficulty with her monthly mortgage  payments. And I dont think  Ms Ss concerns 
about her credit file are sufficient reason to require NatWest to make a permanent  change to 
her mortgage which  might  not be in her best interests in the long term.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1457353