K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Ms H are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage  
and subsequent remedial repairs was dealt with by U K Insurance  Limited
background
Mr C and Ms Hs claims for water damage from leaking pipes go back  to late 2015. This 
decision concerns  matters from December 2016  onwards when Mr C and Ms H noticed 
further leaks from their pipes. Further repairs were carried out and then in December 2017 
Mr C and Ms H noticed a further  leak from the same place. UKI agreed  to send out its 
contractors to trace the leak. It was found  that this was due to damage  caused to the pipes 
by the contractors whod carried out the previous repairs. UKI agreed to pay Mr C and Ms H 
£500 compensation, in December 2017.
Mr C and Ms H noticed further  leaks from the boiler  in May 2018. It was established that this 
was due to air in the system rather than any previous repairs.  Further repairs  were carried 
out to the property. Mr C requested that the whole floor be replaced. The contractors were 
reluctant to do this but UKI then agreed  to it. Mr C says he found UKIs  agents and 
contractors unhelpful  during the process. UKI offered  a further £50 in May 2018 and then a 
further £300 (following the flooring issue) in June 2018.
Mr C asked for alternative accommodation  as Ms H was suffering breathing problems due to 
the dusty environment. There was a delay in agreeing this as UKI said initially that the 
property was habitable (as it had all the main facilities). It did eventually  agree this. UKI then 
threatened not to renew the policy as it had logged  the remedial repairs  as a further  claim.  
After Mr C queried this it did agree to renew, although Mr C advises that the premium 
increased significantly. In August 2018 UKI offered a further £200 compensation. Mr C 
advises that the claim wasnt finalised until January 2019. At this time the pipes had to be 
repaired again at short notice.
On review by our investigator  she noted  £550  had been paid and UKI had offered a further 
£300  she proposed that the total compensation should be £1,500.  UKI pointed out that it 
had offered already a total of £1,400 which was in line with what the investigator suggested. 
This included a waiving of the excess of £350 in May 2016 and the two additional proposed  
awards (which Mr C had declined) in June and August 2018. Whist acknowledging  this our 
investigator said nonetheless UKI should  pay to bring the compensation up to £1,500.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that the waiving of the excess hadnt come into our 
calculations as that occurred before May 2016 and isnt part of this complaint  (as the 
previous complaint was out of time to be referred  to us). I said that UKI should  pay total 
compensation of £1,500 from December 2016 onwards which means  a further payment of 
£950 will be due to Mr C and Ms H. 
I further said I thought  it unfair to increase the premiums because of the escape of water  
claim when  it still wasnt  resolved. I said that UKI should refund the amount of any premium 
increase due to the escape  of water claim in respect of the 2017 and 2018  renewals, plus 
interest.
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr C and Ms H havent  responded to it.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN11612532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
There were  some issues with the original claim but these were dealt with in UKIs letter of 
May 2016. As Mr C and Ms H didnt complain  to us until May 2018, well over six months 
from the date of that letter and havent  complained about the original claim I wont  be looking 
at that. This is because  Mr C and Ms H are out of time for making  a complaint to us about it. 
The May 2017 letter which referred to delays and communication  issues  and the uplifting  of 
the flooring didnt offer any compensation but was a final response letter so on the face of it, 
is out of time. But as the December 2017 letter addressed further issues in the claim I think it 
is fair to consider  matters from December 2016 onwards as that is when the leak reoccurred.  
UKI has asked us to consider its payments for the whole of the claim.  I wont  consider the 
original claim  since, as Ive said the issues concerning  that were  dealt  with in May 2016  and 
are out of time. 
issues concerning  further  leaks/repairs
The repairs  from the first claim led to the pipes being damaged and the leak reoccurring. 
There were delays in getting  this reinspected  and dealt with  Mr C was initially told to get 
his own plumber out. The floors had to be uplifted  again and further  drying and remedial 
repairs had to take place. There were delays in getting these under way. Mr C asked for 
alternative accommodation which wasnt agreed  to until he advised that Ms H was having 
breathing difficulties due to the dusty environment. And although the leak in May 2018 
wasnt found to be related  to the repairs it nevertheless took two weeks  to come out and look 
at this.
Mr C also advises that there was a further leak in January 2019. This was dealt with quickly 
but nevertheless  caused inconvenience to Mr C and Ms H. I think overall that Mr C and Ms H 
were put to a lot of serious inconvenience.
policy renewal premium
I think the threat not to renew  the policy because further works were  counted  as a new claim 
was inappropriate. It caused Mr C and Ms H extra inconvenience to get this sorted out. I 
note also that their premiums have  increased substantially. This was a serious escape of 
water claim and unfortunately insurers are entitled  to increase the renewal premiums  
because of this, so long as they apply the increase fairly. But my view is that the premium  
shouldnt have increased due to the claim until the claim  and the remedial repairs  were 
finally resolved  this wasnt until the 2019  renewal.
So I think that UKI should review the premium  increases on Mr C and Ms Hs policy  for the 
2017 and 2018 renewals. If any increase has been applied due to the escape  of water 
claims it should repay those increases to Mr C and Ms H plus interest at 8% from the dates 
those premiums were paid. 
Ref: DRN11612533compensation
I think its fair to say that the investigator wasnt aware of the waiving of the excess for the 
original claim  or the August 2018 offer of £300  when  assessing the compensation to be paid. 
And that she didnt  consider matters before December 2016.  As Ive said Im only 
considering matters from December 2016 onwards. And for that period, taking into account  
my findings  I think UKI should pay compensation of £1,500. It has so far paid £550.  I 
appreciate that it made offers of compensation over and above that figure so I wont be 
asking it to pay those  offers  as well. I calculate that it should pay a further £950.
As UKI has accepted my provisional findings and Mr C and Ms H havent responded to 
them, I have no further comments to make. My provisional findings, as set out above, are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr C and Ms H a further  £950  compensation
repay any increases  in premium for the 2017 and 2018 renewals of the policy in so far as 
they relate to the escape of water claims and add interest* at 8% on those repayments 
from the dates the premiums were paid until payment.
*U K Insurance  Limited is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr C and Ms H request it, it should provide  them  with a certificate 
showing how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1161253