K820x#14complaint
Mr K says HSBC Bank plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ks credit  card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Mr K is mainly  concerned  that HSBC shouldve checked his circumstances before selling 
him PPI and he feels hes wasted his money as he says he didnt need it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
I think HSBC made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say 
this because Mr K made it clear  on the application  form that he wanted to take out the policy  
by ticking to have  the cover added on. There was an option for him to say he didnt want to 
have PPI which he couldve  ticked instead  this is left blank on Mr Ks completed  
application. So I think that this form, which Mr K completed in his own time after it was sent 
to him at home, made it clear he had a choice. And I find that the policy  was added to his 
account when  he indicated on the application he signed to get his credit  card that he also 
wanted to have PPI.
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But Ive looked  carefully at whether it gave  him enough clear  information so he could decide 
for himself if he wanted to have PPI.
The policy protected Mr Ks credit  card monthly  repayments in the event of accident,  
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. And repeat claims were 
possible. 
Based on what Mr K told us about his circumstances at the time,  I can see how he couldve 
benefitted from having the policy. It provided  him with protection for significantly longer than 
he could've depended on his employer to pay him full sick pay. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr K mentioned having some savings he couldve relied  on 
 but I dont know if he wouldve always had savings he could depend on to make  his 
monthly repayments. And it looks likely  that the PPI provided cover  for longer than his 
savings wouldve lasted  if hed had to rely on these to cover his outgoings  when he wasnt  
working. So this doesnt affect  my overall view.  
Ref: DRN14310032Its possible some of the information  HSBC gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr K chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to and so he 
appears to have been happy to pay for the cover  he wanted. The policy seems to have been 
affordable for him.
And it doesnt look as if Mr K was affected  by any of the main  conditions that mightve  limited  
the policys benefits to him. So, even if not everything was mentioned,  I dont think  that 
knowing more about things the policy didnt  cover wouldve put Mr K off taking the policy  out. 
Based on all the information Ive seen about  his circumstances at the time, I dont find 
theres enough information to be able to uphold his mis-selling complaint. Looked  at overall, 
I think its unlikely Mr K wouldve made a different decision  if better information had been  
provided. Given his circumstances and the benefits the policy  offered him, on balance I think  
he still wouldve taken out the PPI. So HSBC  doesnt need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1431003