K820x#14The complaint
Mr B and Miss C say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
What happened
Mr B and Miss C arranged a mortgage  with RBS in 1999. Due to the terms of the mortgage, 
PPI was a compulsory element but was free of charge for the first year.  The policy was 
cancelled within the first year before Mr B and Miss C paid any premiums. 
In 2003 Mr B and Miss C arranged a further  advance with RBS.  And PPI was taken out at 
the same  time. The policy was in Mr Bs sole name It would have paid a benefit of £280 a 
month for up to 12 months if Mr B had made  a successful  claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Mr B and Miss C asked  for the policy to be altered  in 2006 to add Miss C to 
it. At the time of writing  this decision,  it looks like the PPI is still active. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr B and Miss Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
1999 sale
RBS has said that PPI was a condition of the lending due to the fact Mr B and Miss C were 
asking to borrow around 95% loan to value of the property. 
This type of requirement wouldnt be considered unfair or unreasonable,  as long as it was 
clear that was the case. RBS has provided copies of Mr B and Miss Cs mortgage 
documents  including copies of their PPI and mortgage application forms. 
On the mortgage  application form there  is a section for the PPI which states that payment 
protection cover for unemployment is a requirement  of the mortgage.  It goes on to state the 
cost of the policy will be covered for a year by RBS. Further  it says alternative cover can be 
arranged and details  of that should  be shared with the mortgage  adviser.  
So overall I think RBS made it clear  to Mr B and Miss C that unemployment cover was a 
requirement of this type of mortgage  and they could seek  their own cover  if they wanted.   
Mr B and Miss C chose to continue  with the mortgage  and to not find alternative  cover - so 
it looks like they were  happy to take the mortgage and the PPI from RBS and not look 
elsewhere for a different  type of mortgage. The policy  was also cancelled  whilst it was still 
within the free period, so having the PPI didnt cost them  in any way. 
So, for these reasons  I dont uphold this element of Mr B and Miss Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN134904422003 sale
This policy was sold during a meeting between Mr B and Miss C and RBS. During that 
meeting RBS should have made  Mr B and Miss C aware they had a choice  in buying the 
policy. Mr B and Miss C say they didnt know PPI had been added and they dont recall any 
discussion about PPI. 
RBS has provided copies of Mr B and Miss Cs further advance documents  including  a 
copy of the PPI application form. 
The application form has then been completed with some details about how much cover is 
required and some basic questions about  Mr Ds employment and health  at the time. 
I think the information on the form suggests that a discussion took place between Mr B and 
Miss C and RBS about PPI and they chose  the benefit amount that best suited their 
circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about how RBS sold policies like this 
at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been made clear.  Mr D has signed 
the PPI application form so, I think Mr B and Miss C wouldve had the opportunity to question 
anything they hadnt agreed  to or were unsure about before he did. 
So overall I think its more  likely  RBS made  it clear  to Mr B and Miss C they had a choice  
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this.  
RBS says it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr B and Miss C. This means it didnt need to 
check if the PPI was suitable for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr B and Miss C got the 
information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  RBS gave Mr B and Miss 
C about the PPI wasnt as clear and it should  have been. But they choose to take out the 
PPI  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen about their 
circumstances at the time  in particular Mr B as the policy  was initially  in his name only  it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the cover. 
Mr B and Miss C were  taking on an additional  large  and long-term financial commitment 
which was secured against  their home.  So, the effects of not keeping  up their mortgage 
repayments could  have been  serious. And I think having the security  that Mr Bs portion of 
the repayments would have been made  if he was unable to work  would have  been  important 
to them.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr B and Miss C off taking  out the cover.
This all means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss C. But 
RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss C because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B and Miss C about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr 
B and Miss C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN13490443I know Mr B and Miss C feel strongly about  all of this and will be disappointed by this 
outcome. Theyve  put time and effort into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all 
the points theyve raised, included what they have said about  the fact Mr B is now paying for 
a policy  which covers  Miss C, when she is no longer party  to the mortgage. Looking  at 
everything, it appears Miss C was added to the policy at the request of Mr B and Miss C. Its 
unclear why Mr B or Miss C havent  asked that she now be removed. But I dont think  this is 
something that is RBSs  responsibility or is an error on its part. So, this point doesnt  change 
my decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. The PPI policy  wasnt  mis-
sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have  to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr B and Miss C.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B and Miss C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1349044