K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way their home insurance claim for damage  caused by an 
escape of water was handled by Society of Lloyds. 
background
Upon returning  home from a two-week holiday on November 2014,  Mr and Mrs W 
discovered an escape of water had caused considerable damage to both their building  and 
contents. The kitchen  ceiling had come down  damaging the units and worktops and there 
was damage to most other rooms  in the house.  Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds 
immediately. The claim was accepted and a loss adjuster appointed to validate it and handle 
the reinstatement.  
The loss adjuster visiting the property  three  days after the claim was reported and arranged  
for the ceiling to be tested for the presence  of asbestos and (when it was discovered  to be 
present) for the ceiling to be encapsulated. Owing to the presence of asbestos  and the 
extent of the damage, Lloyds arranged  for Mr and Mrs W to be moved  into alternative 
accommodation (AA). The first AA was too noisy so Lloyds found  Mr and Mrs W somewhere 
else to go in the new year. 
Repairs and reinstatement  began at the property on 19 January 2015. The kitchen  needed 
to be replaced entirely but the first kitchen design  was rejected. Mr and Mrs W met with an 
external kitchen contractor and worked  on a new design for the kitchen. When that was 
costed out, it was found it exceeded Lloyds liability under the policy.  Mr and Mrs W said they 
would decorate  the property themselves and offset  the extra savings against the cost of the 
kitchen. 
There were delays from the external kitchen supplier which were outside Lloyds control. 
Lloyds had to wait for the kitchen to be delivered  in order  to be able to continue  with the 
repairs. There were also problems agreeing to the replacement kitchen appliances but as 
soon as Mr and Mrs W chose the ones they wanted,  and Lloyds approved their choice, the 
appliances were  ordered. There was a problem with the oven selected being discontinued 
and a new one having to be chosen and ordered which caused a delay. Lloyds offered to fit 
Mr and Mrs Ws old oven  until the new one arrived or supply  them with a microwave  whilst 
awaiting the arrival of the new oven. Mr and Mrs W declined  either  option  and said they 
couldnt move home  so their AA should be extended  until the new oven was installed. 
Lloyds said it couldnt extend AA any longer as the lack of the new oven didnt make the 
home uninhabitable. 
There was a delay  by Lloyds in initially ordering the replacement  flooring meaning it couldnt 
be completed on time. The loss adjuster failed to appreciate the extent of kitchen contents 
stored in a bedroom meaning the carpet  in that room wasnt able to be fitted as quickly as it 
shouldve been.  
Mr and Mrs W then said to Lloyds that a kitchen cupboard door had been damaged  and 
their alarm wasnt working.  Lloyds arranged for these issues to be sorted on 1 May 2015.  An 
electrician discovered that the electrics in the house  needed to be upgraded first (in order  to 
comply with current regulations) but this work was completed shortly after.  
Ref: DRN12633642On 4 May 2015  Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds that there  were  snagging  issues at the 
house. They  said there were issues with the kitchen floor and that it needed refitting.  The 
supplier was contacted  but said it wasnt liable. No certificate of completion had been given 
to Lloyds so it made liability for the flooring issues difficult to work out. So, Lloyds offered 
Mr and Mrs W £800 as a cash  settlement to rectify  the floor themselves even though it felt it 
wasnt liable for the issues with the replaced kitchen floor tiles. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and a formal  complaint was raised.  They complained that 
their AA hadnt been extended beyond 4 May 2015, about delays in installing the kitchen  
and carpet  and the damage to the replacement kitchen floor.  Lloyds looked  into their 
complaint but didnt  think itd done anything wrong. It said the delays in ordering  and delivery 
of the new kitchen were  outside its control. And it said the house was habitable from 4 May 
so there  was no need to extend AA. Lloyds said the offer of £800  to alleviate the distress 
they felt about  their damaged kitchen  floor was still available. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Mr and Mrs W complained to this 
service. It was agreed between Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds and this service that our 
investigation of this complaint would be put on hold until all the outstanding issues with the 
claim had been  resolved  and so any new complaints made  could be considered  at the same  
time. Mr and Mrs W then referred their complaint to this service again in February  2019.  
Lloyds agreed  that we could consider the issues raised by Mr and Mrs W as addressed  in its 
final response letter dated August 2015. It said any subsequent complaints raised by Mr and 
Mrs W would  need to be considered under a new complaint reference. 
The complaint made  by Mr and Mrs W and addressed by Lloyds in its final response letter of 
August 2015 was passed to one of our investigators to look into. He identified  five separate  
heads of complaint that needed to be addressed. These were  that Mr and Mrs W: 
felt the standard of repair work arranged by the loss adjuster had been  of a poor quality 
and that their property  had been damaged by Lloyds contractors;
were upset about having to move from their AA numerous times  and at Lloyds refusal  to 
extend it before they felt their home  to be habitable;
felt there  were delays  and issues regarding the delivery of the oven which  unnecessarily 
delayed the claim;
felt the original loss adjuster was unprofessional and unnecessarily  delayed  the claim;
felt that the claim has had unnecessary  delays  in general which had caused them trouble 
and upset.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  had only been  at fault in relation to the delay in fitting 
the carpet in that the original loss adjuster failed to consider the extent of kitchen contents 
stored in a bedroom (thereby preventing the new carpet from being laid).  He said he could 
see that had made overall living conditions difficult when Mr and Mrs W returned home. For 
this he thought that Lloyds should  compensate Mr and Mrs W by paying them £100 for the 
trouble and upset  theyd  been caused.  
Lloyds didnt respond to our investigators findings. Mr and Mrs W did but didnt agree with 
what hed said. They said the snagging  issues continued into the Autumn of 2015.  They  said 
it wasnt until the end of 2016  that the kitchen flooring was replaced. They said they 
remained unhappy at the way AA was organised for them  and at how the loss adjuster dealt 
with the ordering  of the new oven.  
Ref: DRN12633643Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his mind and said to Mr and Mrs W that any 
new issues not forming part of the August 2015  complaint  would need  to be considered 
separately. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As referred  to above, Im only able to look here at the parts of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
against that were  addressed by Lloyds  in its final response dated  18 August 2015. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs W thought they had reached an agreement with Lloyds whereby 
their 2015  complaint was put on hold pending their claim  concluding and any other 
complaints they wanted to make all being considered within  the confines of one complaint. 
So, I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ws frustration that, having put their complaint on hold for 
almost 4 years, this hasnt been whats happened. But as our investigator has explained to 
them there are processes  that need  to be followed one of which  is that Lloyds must first be 
given the opportunity to address any complaint  about it. 
This is clearly a long running claim  and now complaint  and I can see that theres been a 
lot of confusion  generated  along  the way. But I am pleased  to note that whilst all 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaints about Lloyds and the way it handled their complaint cant be 
considered within the confines of this complaint, they are being considered albeit under a 
different complaint reference. 
For ease of reference and continuity  I will consider this complaint under the same sub-
headings as our investigator  did. 
the standard of repair work  arranged  by the loss adjuster was of poor quality and the 
property was damaged  by Lloyds contractors
I can see that Mr and Mrs W told Lloyds that there  were a number of snagging issues  
arising out of the repairs that were  undertaken. I can also see that Lloyds responded to the 
issues raised and arranged for its contractors to rectify the issues  even those unrelated  to 
the claim  in a timely fashion.  
As regards  the kitchen  floor it seems that Mr and Mrs W insisted it was laid before the work  
to install  the kitchen was done. I can see that Lloyds contractor expressed its concerns 
about doing so but the floor was eventually fitted ahead  of the kitchen refit and was 
protected ahead  of doing so. After  that was carried out Mr and Mrs W noticed  some marks 
and said they wanted the floor replaced.  I can see that Lloyds contractor inspected  the 
reported damage when he visited to look at the snags reported.  I can see that he said two of 
the vinyl tiles had slight surface marks on them and one tile that had been fitted around a tall 
tower unit that Mr and Mrs W subsequently  wanted moved now needed to be replaced. The 
contractor denied liability for the issues.
Whilst Mr and Mrs W said they wanted  the floor replaced in its entirety I can see that it was 
possible to replace just the damaged tiles. So, I think that Lloyds offer of £800 as a gesture 
of goodwill  to alleviate any distress  caused and to resolve this aspect of their complaint is a 
reasonable one in the circumstances. The tiles came from a major  high street  supplier such 
Ref: DRN12633644that obtaining three new tiles should  they so wish shouldve been straightforward.  I cant  
reasonably require Lloyds to replace the entire  floor given there  were  two minor surface 
marks possibly not of its own making. The decision to move  the tower  unit after installation 
was Mr and Mrs Ws so any issue with the floor tiles as a result is theirs  to remedy.  
Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with the outstanding  repair work and that its offer in respect of the 
kitchen flooring is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further in 
respect to this complaint point.
Whilst I note that Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy about the kitchen floor issues  (and that 
ultimately it was agreed it would be replaced entirely  towards  the end of 2016) my findings  
here can only consider  the matter up to 18 August 2015. 
upset about having to move AA numerous  times  and at Lloyds refusal to extend AA before 
Mr and Mrs W felt their home to be habitable
Lloyds arranged for AA in holiday  accommodations and apartments as it calculated the 
repairs wouldnt take long enough to justify  a short term let.
Unfortunately, there was a delay of a number of weeks with the delivery  of the kitchen which 
was outside of Lloyds control  and which meant AA needed to be extended. Due to the 
nature of the accommodation in which they were residing there was, on occasion,  bookings 
for other persons which meant Mr and Mrs W needed to move out. But given the delay with 
the kitchen was outside of Lloyds control, and given the nature of the accommodation in 
which they were placed, I cant  reasonably hold Lloyds responsible  for Mr and Mrs W having  
to move on several occasions. 
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws preference to remain  in AA for longer   until their 
oven was installed - I dont think Lloyds unreasonably declined to extend  it. I can see that 
Mr and Mrs Ws home was deemed habitable at the start of May 2015 and that, even  though 
it was without an oven,  Lloyds had offered two potential solutions  to provide Mr and Mrs W 
with temporary cooking facilities. Both seem reasonable to me so I cant fairly say that 
Lloyds unreasonably declined to extend AA. It is only required to provide it whilst  the home 
is uninhabitable and, taking all the circumstances into account, I think  that was from the start 
of May 2015. 
I know Mr and Mrs W have said the loss adjuster promised to extend their AA but 
unfortunately theres no documentary evidence that he did so I cant reasonably  hold Lloyds 
to account for it. So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint point. 
delays and issues regarding the delivery of the oven  which unnecessarily delayed  the claim
Mr and Mrs W feel there was a delay by Lloyds in ordering a new oven. I can see from the 
file that the oven damaged by the escape  of water was no longer available  and that they 
provided Lloyds  with suggestions  for what they thought were  suitable alternatives.  And I can 
see there was a dispute between them about  whether the oven selected exceeded Lloyds 
liability. 
In response to our investigators findings Mr and Mrs W provided a note that theyd sent to 
the loss adjuster in February  2015  which showed  they had checked the availability of the 
oven they wanted (and provided him with the details shortly after)  but that he did nothing  
Ref: DRN12633645with this information for weeks  thereby  causing a delay. Im unable  to agree. The note 
Mr and Mrs W refer to says only that they are trying to check out the availability of the hob 
and oven they would like. I can see the model  number was provided to the loss adjuster on 
9 February 2015  but Mr and Mrs W say this is the oven they are looking to purchase. An 
email from the contractor to the loss adjuster on 9 March says that the appliances  have been  
removed from the kitchen quote. And theres a further email  from Mr W to the loss adjuster in 
late April asking for confirmation that he (Mr W) can proceed with ordering the oven. 
On balance, I cant say from this evidence that Lloyds unreasonably delayed  ordering the 
oven to the extent  that when the order was placed  it was out of stock.
Insurers are permitted to take some  time to ascertain liability  for items  they are being asked 
to replace and I dont  think  Lloyds took an unreasonably long time in doing  so over 
Mr and Mrs Ws oven.  But it was unfortunate  but outside of Lloyds control  that the oven 
Mr and Mrs W had selected was no longer available. I can see Lloyds offered reasonable 
solutions to the delay  caused by that but that Mr and Mrs W declined them. But Im satisfied 
that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs W fairly and reasonably in respect  of their replacement over 
so I wont be asking  it to do anything further  in relation to it. 
that the original  loss adjuster was unprofessional  and unnecessarily delayed the claim
Ive seen no evidence  that the loss adjuster didnt proactively manage Mr and Mrs Ws claim. 
I can see he remained in regular contact  with them and that most of the delays  were  down to 
the kitchen supplier and thus outside  the loss adjusters control.  Whilst Lloyds doesnt 
accept the comments  Mr and Mrs W made about the original  loss adjuster I can see that 
when their concerns  were  raised  and they asked for a replacement  adjuster to be appointed 
it agreed to do so. That seems fair to me and I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to do any more. 
 
the claim has had unnecessary delays in general which had caused them  trouble  and upset.
All insurance  claims  by their very nature - attract a certain level of inconvenience; thats to 
be expected. And escape of water claims can be more complex and take longer  to resolve 
than most. Here I can see it took a little over 5 months from first notifying the claim to the 
house being largely reinstated  and Mr and Mrs W being able to move back  in. I think that is a 
reasonably short amount  of time given  the extent of the damage  caused and the repairs  
required. And within that timeframe was the delay caused by the kitchen supplier. So, I think 
that Lloyds was proactive throughout this period and didnt cause any delays except  for that 
in relation to the fitting of the carpet upstairs in one of the bedrooms. 
I can see that the original  loss adjuster  failed  to consider the quantity of kitchen contents  
being stored in one of the bedrooms and because of this, the fitting of the carpet in that room 
was unnecessarily delayed. This affected the overall  living conditions for Mr and Mrs W after 
they returned to their home.
Where an insurer,  through its words  or deeds  makes an ordinarily difficult situation even 
worse than it is, this service can recommend that it pay compensation to the insured. I think  
that the delay  caused  to the fitting  of the carpet  was an avoidable one such  that it caused 
Mr and Mrs W some un-necessary trouble and upset for which  I think Lloyds  should  pay 
them compensation of £100. This amount is in line with awards  we have made  in similar 
circumstances and is, I think, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN12633646my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Society  of Lloyds to pay 
Mr and Mrs W compensation  of £100  for the trouble and upset they were caused by the 
delay in laying their replacement carpet.  Society  of Lloyds  must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date we tell them that Mr and Mrs W have accepted the decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2021.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1263364