K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way that their insurer, now known as HDl Global 
Specialty SE, dealt  with their home insurance claim for subsidence damage.
background
Mr and Mrs K notified a claim in January 2016  following their discovery of movement and 
cracking in the area around their pantry. HDI carried out inspections and concluded that 
although there was evidence  of movement to the left hand wall of the property, the main 
cause of the movement under the pantry  and internal  walls  was lateral movement,  which 
isnt subsidence  and isnt covered under the policy. It said there was evidence  of historic  
moment to the left hand wall which it would carry out further  monitoring of. Mr and Mrs K had 
reports carried out saying  that the movement was due to an escape of water underground. 
HDI didnt agree that that was the case.
The matter  was referred to this service and as a result our adjudicator produced an 
adjudication which proposed that:
HDI should arrange an independent  inspection of the damage by a suitably qualified  
surveyor to comment on the cause of the damage and what repairs  are required.
both parties should agree to be bound  by the surveyors findings.
HDI should pay £150 compensation for the delays caused.
Mr and Mrs K had incurred expenses in appointing their own surveyor.  Our adjudicator  
proposed that if the independent  surveyor  concluded that there  is subsidence damage HDI 
should reimburse those costs. He further  said that, if the surveyor  agreed,  HDI should  pay 
for the cost of temporary  props under the pantry floor.
Mr and Mrs K agreed to the settlement. HDI appointed a structural  engineer  from a company 
chosen by Mr and Mrs K in accordance with the terms of the settlement.
The independent engineer reported. He essentially agreed with HDIs assessment, that the 
cause of damage in the pantry  area was due to lateral movement and was unlikely to be due 
to an escape of water. HDI proposed to instruct the engineer monitor the affected areas and 
then to draw up a schedule of repairs  but only for the areas affected by subsidence. It also 
agreed to carry out a CCTV  inspection of the drains and thereafter some drain repairs.
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy, as they wanted their expenses  refunded.  They then instructed 
a surveyor/loss  assessor. They paid for further  reports to be carried out which said the cause 
of the damage  to the pantry area was escape  of water leading  to subsidence. They  
complained also that HDI had failed  to pay for the temporary props. They  were  sent a copy  
of the original loss adjusters' report which they said cast doubts  on their integrity.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the matter.  He explained that the expenses  Mr and Mrs K had 
incurred would only be refundable if the independent engineer had identified that there was 
subsidence in the pantry  area.  HDI had always been willing to have the area monitored and 
to carry out any repairs  identified. He said that HDI should pay for the temporary props  which 
it was willing  to do. But overall  he pointed  out that Mr and Mrs K had agreed to be bound by 
the findings of the independent report,  so he couldnt consider any further evidence.
Ref: DRN15620742The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said,  this matter  has previously  been  considered by this service. That resulted in an 
adjudication which both parties agreed  to be bound by. Mr and Mrs K have said both that 
HDI has failed to act in accordance with the report and that it was flawed and not 
independent.
independence of the report
Mr and Mrs K feel that the report was drawn up on a false  basis.  In particular they have 
referred to the loss adjusters original  report which they have only recently seen. This report  
suggested that the circumstances around  the escape of water were suspicious. When an 
insurer instructs a loss adjuster, they review the case for the insurer  and if they have any 
suspicions about the claim, are obliged to report them.  I can understand if this upset 
Mr and Mrs K. I dont  think  it affected the independence of the appointed engineer. 
HDI hasnt at any time told Mr and Mrs K it doubted  the circumstances of the escape  of 
water. Indeed  it accepted  drain repairs after the independent report  and it has offered to 
consider a claim for damage to underground pipes. It doesnt  accept that the escape of 
water has caused subsidence in line with the findings of independent  engineer.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the engineer appointed after our adjudication wasnt  
independent. Both parties had full access to that engineer to present to him any evidence 
they wanted to.
costs incurred by Mr and Mrs K.
This concerns Mr and Mrs Ks costs in getting  reports prior to the independent one. I agree 
that our adjudication wasnt entirely clear in that it said the costs of those reports  could be 
recovered if the independent  report concluded there was subsidence. And to a certain extent 
it did say there was subsidence damage. But this was in the area which wasnt in dispute; 
HDI had already offered to carry out monitoring of this area to see if it was moving.
So in respect of Mr and Mrs Ks pre adjudication expenses, I dont think this changed what  
HDI was going  to deal with. So I dont  think its liable to refund  those  expenses.
temporary props
I think the adjudication could be interpreted as saying that HDI should pay for these in any 
event. HDI thought it was only being  liable if subsidence was identified in the pantry area. 
Mr and Mrs K had the props installed themselves.  I note that HDI offered to pay for these 
and Mr and Mrs K indicated that they werent pursuing this. But I believe it has now paid this 
cost. I dont think that this meant that HDI wasnt complying with the terms of the 
adjudication.
Ref: DRN15620743subsequent evidence
Mr and Mrs K have  now obtained new evidence which supports their view that the damage 
under the pantry is due to the escape of water. HDI has refused to consider this evidence.
As Ive found that theres no evidence to suggest the report wasnt independent  or the 
evidence on which our adjudication  was based  is flawed, this does mean  that, as they 
agreed Mr and Mrs K are bound  by the findings  of the independent  report. Im afraid that I 
cant consider their new evidence or tell HDI to consider or pay for it.
overall
Both parties  agreed to the terms of our adjudication and Im satisfied it has been  complied 
with. If Mr and Mrs K want to go ahead with the repairs agreed by HDI and make a claim in 
respect of the underground pipes they should contact HDI direct.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1562074