K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  She isnt happy  about 
the way it dealt with an incident under her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs D contacted Advantage looking  to make a claim as someone had hit her car while  it was 
parked. She told it the other driver  hadnt left any details and she was advised how a claim 
could be advanced.  It later transpired that the other  driver had in fact left a note for Mrs D 
and they finalised  things privately.  
A few years later Mrs D realised Advantage had marked the details of the incident on her 
records and it had impacted on her premium. As she didnt actually make a claim, she didnt 
think this was fair and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D but didnt  uphold her complaint. Although he 
could understand  Mrs Ds position, he explained that the insurer  hadnt done  anything 
wrong. It was obliged to record  the details of the incident on internal and external systems 
and this could  affect her premiums. 
As Mrs D didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand why Mrs D is frustrated about  this and the fact that a record  of the incident 
is kept on file. But consumers have a duty to tell insurers about  any incident they are 
involved in even if there isnt a claim and insurers have a duty to record  this. And insurers  
use such information in order to make informed decisions about premiums. I dont think this 
is unreasonable.
As such,  I cant say Advantage  has acted unreasonably here. It isnt disputed  that someone  
drove into Mrs Ds car and she called Advantage to ask about what  she could do about this. 
Fortunately, the other driver provided their details (at a later stage) and the matter  was 
settled privately. But Mrs D was still obliged to tell Advantage  about  this, and it was obliged  
to record the details on the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE). 
I know Mrs D doesnt feel it is fair this has affected the cost of her premiums. But insurers 
use a drivers history, which includes fault claims, non-fault claims and incidents  amongst 
other things,  to assess the level of risk and premium. This is standard  across the industry 
and I dont feel there is anything unusual or unfair about this. And from what Ive seen Mrs D 
has been treated  the same as anyone  else in a similar position to her. So, I dont think 
Advantage has done anything wrong in recording  Mrs Ds true driving history.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN19141832Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1914183