K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the way Secure Trust Bank Plc (Secure  Trust) have dealt with his 
financial difficulties and circumstances.
background 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
I dont think theres enough information available for me to decide  that the business removed 
all contact when Mr B had asked them only to reduce the contact they were  making  with him.  
It seems  the business labelled his file Do Not Contact after theyd had a conversation with 
Mr B, but its not clear that Mr B asked only for limited contact as the call record is 
unavailable; only the contact notes.
However, I have been able to explore some of the communication Mr B had with the 
business and having reviewed the call he had with Secure Trust on 29 November 2018 I 
would agree with the investigator  that it wasnt handled well. I think  the agent was insensitive 
to the financial  difficulties Mr B found himself in and didnt  take into account the health 
concerns the consumer  had told her he was experiencing  and which,  I think  its reasonable 
to suggest, should have  alerted the business to his vulnerability. They  were  wrong  to 
suggest they could seize the car without  a court order and should have considered  broader  
payment options.
For those reasons I think the business  should  compensate Mr B and, in the circumstances, I 
think £200 is sufficient.
Whilst I expect  the business to be supportive of Mr Bs financial difficulties it would not be fair 
to ask them to formulate any sort of payment plan whilst Mr B is in possession of the car. By 
handing the car back Mr B will enable  the business to sell it and offset  the sales receipt  
against the outstanding  debt on the agreement.
Ref: DRN11512032So, whilst Im asking the business to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B, Im not 
asking them to do so until the car is returned  and sold, as I dont think that would be fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Secure Trust Bank 
Plc to:
pay Mr B £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
insensitive management of the telephone call;
agree  an affordable  repayment plan with Mr B for the outstanding  debt but only after 
the car has been returned to them and sold to reduce the debt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1151203