K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan (Petplan) unfairly  declined  
her claim under  her pet insurance  policy.
background
In September  2018, Miss R took out a pet insurance  policy  with Petplan that was 
underwritten by Allianz. The policy was to cover  her kitten, which  Ill refer to as B.
Three days after taking out the policy, B was taken to the vet as they werent eating properly 
and had diarrhoea.  B was treated  for this and was given  an injection to prevent  vomiting.  
Two days later B was taken to the vets again after vomiting and finding  it hard to breathe.  
They were  treated for aspirational pneumonia. As a result, Miss R made  a claim on the 
policy to cover the cost of the vet bills.
Petplan declined the claim saying it didnt meet the terms of the policy.  They explained that 
while the policy covered injuries  from the policy start date, there was a 14 day deferment  
period for any claims resulting from illness. Petplan concluded the aspirational pneumonia 
was as a result of vomiting, and therefore  an illness rather than an injury. 
Miss R didnt agree with Petplans outcome of the claim and raised a complaint  with them. 
Petplan maintained the claim should be declined and issued their final response.  So Miss R 
brought her complaint  to our service for review.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. They thought  on balance,  that what  B was treated for 
(aspirational pneumonia),  was an injury rather than an illness.
Petplan didnt  agree  with the outcome of the investigators assessment. So the complaint 
was been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss R and Petplan a provisional  decision on 16 January 2020 to explain why I didnt 
think Miss Rs complaint should  be upheld. And I said Id consider anything  else anyone  
wanted to give me  as long as I received it by 30 January  2020.  
Petplan had nothing further for me to consider.  And while Miss R didnt give any additional 
evidence, she wanted me to consider  her response  to the points set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Miss Rs policy,  Im satisfied it excludes any 
claim for an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover. The policy does, however, cover 
any injuries incurred  by the pet during the first 14 days  of cover. The policy wording  then 
goes on to define an illness and injury as follows:
Illness: Any change(s)  to a normal healthy state,  sickness, disease, defects and 
abnormalities, including  defects and abnormalities your pet was born with or were passed on 
by his/her parents.
Ref: DRN14899592Injury: Physical damage or trauma caused  immediately by an accident.  Not any
physical damage  or trauma that happens  over a period of time.
In this case, its not in dispute B required treatment during the first 14 days  of the policy
start date. So, the key thing for me to decide  is whether I think,  based  on the information
provided, that Bs aspirational pneumonia  was most  likely  caused  by an injury or an
illness. Because Petplan is seeking  to rely on an exclusion  to decline the claim,  it needs to
show the claim can reasonably be excluded on this basis.
Miss R says Bs aspirational pneumonia was a result of an injury. This is because  she says 
B vomited  mid-air  after eating  their food too quickly, inhaling vomit which  caused  the 
aspirational pneumonia. Miss R says this unfortunate accident happened  suddenly and 
unexpectedly and was not something  that happened  gradually  as illnesses do.
Petplan has explained that its reviewed all available information with their in-house 
veterinary team, including Bs medical records from the start of the policy,  and they believe 
Bs condition  should  be categorised as an illness and not an injury. 
Ive had to consider what I thinks most  likely to have caused  the aspirational pneumonia, 
which is what B was treated for. Ive noted  what Miss R says happened, including the 
definitions of aspirational pneumonia and vomiting. But theres  no evidence that Bs 
aspirational pneumonia was as a result of an injury.
I appreciate what Miss R says in response to my provisional decision,  about the cause  of the 
vomiting being unknown and there being  no clear  link between  the cause of the vomiting and 
the earlier vet visit. But, I also dont think I can say the vomiting  itself was caused as a result 
of an injury because  there isnt enough  to suggest this was the underlying  cause. And 
although the underlying  condition isnt known, the fact that theres  a gastric issue  a few days 
before persuades me theres enough  to say, on balance, the vomiting  is linked to this. Had 
there not been  an earlier visit - which in itself suggests enough cause for concern that they 
took B to the vet - I might have been  persuaded otherwise.
Overall, I think its more  likely there was an underlying cause  of B vomiting, so I think  
Petplan applied the exclusion fairly.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1489959