complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with an Evans store card.  
in 1998.
A company called AXA France IARD  is now responsible for complaints about these sales.  Ill 
therefore mainly refer to AXA throughout this final decision.
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs M disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve  spoken  at length to the 
company involved  to gain an understanding of the processes that were  generally used. So, 
we now know consumers  were asked to fill out an application which  was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included  in what  the 
applicant was given  to complete.
I was sent the credit agreement Mrs M filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section  on the application  leaflet about PPI. This invited her to either sign 
her name - or leave blank  - an option  box to have  PPI cover.
Mrs M signed  her name at this point, so I think this suggests that she did want PPI when she 
applied for her card. Because I also think she would have had access  to the terms and 
conditions as Ive described above,  I think she consented to the PPI cover when she signed 
at this point. I think shed have been equally free to not have signed the section asking for 
the PPI.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means  it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mrs M to decide for herself  whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge  
AXA could have  set out the information  about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better  way, but 
overall, I do think Mrs M had access to enough  information to allow her to make an informed 
decision.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN1061529Mrs M told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt  
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs M says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of use.
Ive checked that Mrs M was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  
exclusions we tended to see in some  of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive,  but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work  or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in addition to any 
other means  Mrs M had in place at the time.
Although I cant say why Mrs M decided  to select this cover when she applied for the card, I 
think the PPI policy  was something  that would have been  of use to her. I think  this could 
explain why she chose  it on the form.
For me to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead,  what Ive seen makes me think Mrs M specifically selected  the 
PPI and had access  nearby  to the information she needed about  the PPI policy  and its rules. 
And I dont  think theres evidence that any better  or more  information  would have  
changed how Mrs M acted.
So, Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
2
Ref: DRN1061529