K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Cash On Go Limited, trading as Peachy.co.uk,  (Peachy),  gave him 
four loans that he couldnt afford to repay. The complaint  is brought  to this service on behalf  
of Mr D by a firm of solicitors. But for ease  I shall refer below  to all actions being taken by 
Mr D.
background
Mr D took out four instalment  loans with Peachy as follows:-
Loan number   
and amountDate of Loan Number of monthly loan 
repayment instalments  
and highest repayment 
amountRepayment date
1.£300 25/10/2013 Four instalments  
highest repayment of 
£160.9228/2/2014
2.£500 4/3/2014 Five instalments - 
highest repayment of 
£224.1525/7/2014
3.£300 5/8/2014 Three instalments  
highest repayment of 
£17826/9/2014
4.£500 2/10/2014 Five instalments - 
highest repayment of 
£25010/2/2015
Mr D said that the loans were unaffordable  taking account of his income and expenditure at 
the time of drawdown and his financial history, and that he wasnt  creditworthy.
Peachy said that it had asked for details  of Mr Ds income and expenditure. Mr D told it that 
he was earning  a net salary of £2,000 and that his regular expenses  were £750. He had told 
Peachy the name of his employer, length  of employment and his job title. Peachy said that 
Mr Ds disposable income of £1,250 was more than enough to cover his loan repayments. 
Peachy had also carried out a credit check with a credit reference agency.  It said that its 
credit check  didnt unveil any indicators of financial difficulties.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He initially  said that 
Peachy had done sufficient checks on Loans  1 to 3. But he didnt  think the checks  on Loan 4 
went far enough. He said that Peachy should  have asked about Mr Ds outstanding short 
term lending. The adjudicator said that hed asked Mr D for his bank statements and credit 
file to check affordability at the time of Loan  4, but these hadnt  been received. So the 
adjudicator said that as he hadnt seen these, he couldnt then say whether the checks 
Peachy should  have  done would have shown  that Loan 4 was affordable.
Mr D responded to say that he couldnt get hold of his bank statements but he provided  his 
credit report.  He also said that his income  at the time was £1,200 and his regular 
expenditure was £1,295 which differed from Peachys records.
The adjudicator responded to say that whilst  Mr D had said his income was £1,200, 
Peachys records showed  his income as £2.000. The adjudicator  didnt think  that Peachy 
Ref: DRN10984352would have had any reason to believe that Mr Ds declared salary  was inaccurate.  The 
adjudicator had also noted  that Mr D had outstanding short  term lending  repayments of £83 
before Loan 4. So taking  these into account with Mr Ds updated expenditure information, he 
said that Mr D would still have been left with £622 from the income  of £2,000  hed declared  
to Peachy to pay the loan repayments. So he still thought Loan 4 was affordable.
Mr D disagreed and responded to say that he hadnt  earned  £2,000  per month  and that the 
lender wouldnt  have evidence in relation to this. 
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Peachy was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether 
Mr D could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr D was borrowing, the length of the loan 
agreement and his lending history, but there was no set list of checks Peachy had to do.
But the guidance in place  at the time of Mr Ds first two loans was clear about  the 
responsibility of the lender to take reasonable steps  to ensure that a borrower can 
sustainably repay  their loans. The Office  of Fair Tradings  (OFT)  Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance said that assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed test which  involves a 
creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific  credit  commitment, or specific  
additional credit  commitment,  in a sustainable manner, without the borrower  incurring 
(further) financial difficulties. The guidance  also said that repaying  credit in a sustainable 
manner meant being able to repay  credit  out of income and/or available savings and 
without undue difficulty.  And it defined undue difficulty as being able to repay credit while  
also meeting other debt repayments and normal/reasonable outgoings  and without having 
to borrow further  to meet these repayments
The final two loans  taken  by Mr D were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Its 
regulations for lenders are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook  and are similar to those 
from the OFT in many respects. 
Ive thought about whether Peachys checks were proportionate  for all the loans. Peachy has 
told us about the checks  it did before agreeing to lend to Mr D. It says that it carried  out a 
credit check.  It also asked Mr D about  his normal income and expenditure before Loan 1. It 
said that if more than three months had passed since a loan application, a consumer was 
asked in his next loan application if anything had changed. If there were changes, the 
consumer had to produce new details. Otherwise  he had to confirm  that nothing  had 
changed. For gaps  between loans of less than three  months, a consumer wasnt  required to 
update his information but had the opportunity to do so on the lenders website  whenever  
anything had changed.
I note that Mr D has told us that he wasnt earning  £2,000. He said that his income was 
£1,200 and his expenditure was £1,295.  He also said that Peachy would have no evidence  
in relation to the monthly income of £2,000. 
Ive reviewed the two documents Peachy has provided to this service,  a customer  profile  
form and an income and expenditure form. Both these  contain information about Mr Ds 
income and total expenses. The income and expenditure form showed that Mr Ds income  
Ref: DRN10984353was recorded  on 6 November 2012  (with  the time of entry provided) as £1,800 with no 
expenditure details.  Mr Ds income was then changed on 25 October 2013 (with the time of 
entry provided) to £2,000 with £750 expenditure. There  were also details  about  Mr Ds job 
and frequency  of income and method of payment.
I also note that Mr D would have been given  the opportunity to change  the income  and 
expenses information  on subsequent loan applications. But it doesnt appear that he did this. 
If his income and expenses were  different  to that recorded by Peachy,  I would  have 
reasonably expected him to change  these. 
Ive taken into consideration the documents provided by Peachy, and that it appears that 
Mr D didnt change the income and expenses  information held by Peachy to reflect  his actual  
financial situation. Overall  Im not persuaded that Mr D didnt  provide  the income and 
expenses information  shown on Peachys records.
So, I will use the financial information provided to us by Peachy in my decision  as to whether 
its credit  assessments were  proportionate.
Mr D has also queried whether Peachy holds evidence of his income. But I dont think it 
would have been proportionate for Peachy to obtain independent verification of Mr Ds 
income for any of his loans.
I also note that Peachy  carried  out credit checks but I havent seen these. It said that its 
searches didnt indicate financial  difficulties.  Mr D has provided  his credit report to us. I can 
see that before Loan 1, his credit  report shows a default four months earlier  and two 
outstanding short term loans. But Im also aware that when a lender carries out a credit 
check, the information it sees  doesnt  usually provide the same  level of detail that a 
consumers credit report will and it isnt necessarily  up to date.  A lender might only see a 
small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some  data might be missing  or anonymised. Im 
also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report  to the same  credit reference 
agencies. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided by 
Peachys credit check and Mr Ds actual situation.
 
Loan 1
Mr Ds first loan of £300 was to be repaid  by four monthly instalments with a highest 
instalment of £160.92. His stated disposable income  was £1,250. I think  that the information 
Peachy gathered before Loan 1 suggested that these loan repayments were affordable, and 
I think it was reasonable  for Peachy to rely on the information it had at this early point in the 
lending. So, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Loan  1.
Loan 2
Mr D repaid Loan 1 on the due date and borrowed  Loan 2 four days later. The loan amount  
had increased  to £500 with five monthly instalments  of up to £224.15.  But Mr Ds declared  
disposable income was still £1,250. I think the repayment amounts were still relatively 
modest compared to Mr Ds disposable income.  So, I still think it was proportionate for 
Peachy to consider Mr Ds disposable income  again here, without making  further checks  for 
Loan 2. So, I dont think Peachy did anything wrong  in giving Loan 2 to Mr D.
Loan 3
Ref: DRN10984354Mr D repaid Loan 2 on the due date and he obtained  Loan 3 eleven days later. But the loan 
amount had reduced to £300 with three  instalments of up to £178. Whilst I think the 
frequency of the lending might have  given Peachy some concerns,  I note that Mr Ds stated 
disposable income was still £1,250 and the repayment amounts were  still relatively modest  
compared to his disposable income.  So, I still think it was proportionate here for Peachy to 
consider Mr Ds disposable income again,  without making further checks for Loan 3. So, I 
dont think Peachy did anything wrong in giving Loan 3 to Mr D.
Loan 4
Mr D repaid Loan 3 early  but then obtained Loan  4 six days  later. The loan amount had 
increased again to £500  repayable  by five monthly instalments of up to £250.  Mr Ds stated 
disposable income was still £1,250. But by this time I think  Peachy  should have been 
concerned about  the frequency of Mr Ds loan requests especially in view of his relatively 
high disposable  income. I think they might have suggested to Peachy that Mr D was using 
short term loans as a supplement to his normal income, rather  than using them to meet a 
temporary one-off  problem. Although  I think  it was reasonable for Peachy to still rely on the 
information provided by Mr D, I also think by the time of Loan 4 that it would  have been  
proportionate for Peachy to have  asked Mr D some very specific questions  about any other 
short term loans he was already committed to repaying. I cant see that it did this.
Although I dont think the checks Peachy  did for Loan 4 were sufficient, that in itself doesnt  
mean that Mr Ds complaint about  this loan should succeed. I also need to see whether what  
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown Peachy that Mr D couldnt 
sustainably afford Loan  4. 
I would normally do this by looking at the bank  statements for the account into which the 
loans were paid.  I note that the adjudicator  asked  Mr Ds solicitors  to provide us with a copy  
of Mr Ds bank statements. But, we havent received this information. 
I note that Mr D provided his credit  report which showed two outstanding short term loans  
with monthly repayments of around £83. But if these  had been taken into account, I think 
they would  have suggested  to Peachy that Loan  4 was still affordable. But Im also aware 
that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit  reference agencies. So, 
Mr D may have  taken other  payday  or short  term loans prior to Loan 4 which may not have 
been identified  by his credit report.
As I havent  been  able to see exactly what information Peachy shouldve taken into account 
before agreeing to lend Loan 4 to Mr D, I havent been able to get a picture of what Mr Ds 
financial situation was like when  he applied for Loan 4. And so I cant  say that if Peachy had 
completed sufficient checks, it wouldve found that Mr D couldnt  afford  to repay Loan 4 
sustainably.
So whilst I dont think the checks  Peachy carried out were proportionate on Loan 4, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think that had Peachy  carried out sufficient checks, these wouldve 
prevented it from lending Loan  4 to Mr D. So based  on what  Ive seen, I cant  say Peachy 
was wrong to lend Loan 4 to Mr D. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN10984355Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1098435