K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms A was sold the PPI in November  2004  in connection with a credit  card during a phone 
call.
The PPI cost 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance  each month  for up to 12 months if Ms A was off work sick or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms As complaint  should  be upheld. Ms A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint. I appreciate Ms A will be 
disappointed with this outcome but it is of course up to Ms A whether she accepts or rejects  
my decision.  I will now explain why I have  reached this outcome.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms A was eligible for PPI. Based on Ms As age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Ms A was eligible for the 
policy.
Capital One had to make it clear to Ms A that the PPI was optional  and needed her consent  
before it could be applied to the account.
Capital One no longer  have a call recording of the sale - this is understandable given the 
length of time since the sale. But it does mean that I cant know  for sure what  happened  
during the sale.  So Ive thought about what Capital One and Ms A have told us and looked to 
the documents that I do have available  to help me decide what  is more likely to have 
happened. 
Ms A says that she was pressured into taking  PPI and that the sales script Capital One have 
provided her with supports this. But Ms A has also said that she was unaware she had been 
sold PPI. She says that had she been  aware she had been  sold PPI then she could have 
used this when  she was going  through a difficult time financially. I appreciate  the point Ms A 
makes here. But the problem is that Ms A has provided two inconsistent accounts  because if 
Ms A was forced to take PPI then she would have  been aware she was being sold it. I do 
appreciate that this confusion may have  arisen because of the length  of time since the sale.  
But what  it means is that its difficult for me to rely on Ms As account  of what  happened.  So I 
Ref: DRN19703892cant conclude that its more likely that Ms A was pressured into taking PPI or that she was 
unaware she had been sold PPI just based  on what Ms A has told us.
Ms A has told us that she didnt choose to take PPI and left the box for it unticked on the 
credit agreement. Capital  Ones  records show PPI wasnt  applied  to her account  at this 
stage but was sold later during a phone  call. I havent seen sufficient evidence  to conclude 
that the sale didnt take place during a phone call.
Although I dont have  a call recording of the sale, Ive seen call scripts from around the time 
of the sale. These show that Ms A would have been  given a choice about whether or not to 
take PPI and her consent would have been  required before PPI could be applied  to the 
account. I havent seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that the representative didnt follow  
the script  as they ought to have and so I think its more likely that PPI was presented as 
optional and was applied to Ms As account  because she chose to take it out.
Based on the call script, I dont think Capital One advised Ms A to take PPI out. By advised  I 
mean a tailored recommendation based  on Ms As particular circumstances at the time of 
the sale. This means Capital One didnt  have to take steps  to ensure PPI was suitable for 
Ms A. So they didnt  have to take into account Ms As circumstances when selling PPI. But 
they did have  to provide her with clear  information about the policy,  in particular the 
costs/benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
I cant say that Capital One did provide Ms A with all of the information  as they should have 
at the point at which  the policy was sold to Ms A. This in itself doesnt  mean  the policy was 
mis-sold as I have to go on and consider  whether better information would have put Ms A off 
taking the policy out. And I dont think it would have.  I say this because:
-Ms A has told us she wasnt entitled  to employee  benefits.  So the PPI would have 
been of use to her if she was unable to work. The benefits of the policy  outweighed 
the costs. Even if Ms A did have  employee  benefits or would soon have become 
entitled to them,  the PPI would have paid out in addition to them  and likely for a 
longer period of time.
-I cant see that Ms A was affected  by the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.  
For example, those relating to pre-existing medical conditions  and unusual  working 
arrangements.
-Ms A could have  cancelled the policy at any time if she no longer needed  or wanted 
it.
-Although I can see that Ms A did fall into some financial troubles, I havent seen any 
evidence which suggests that the PPI was unaffordable to Ms A at the time of taking 
PPI.
I have taken into account everything Ms A has told us including  about the financial troubles 
she faced but I havent  seen sufficient  evidence to conclude that Capital One mis-sold Ms A 
this PPI policy. The policy was designed  to make  monthly repayments if Ms A was off work 
sick or lost her job not for financial  difficulties arising otherwise. If Ms A was off work sick or 
lost her job during  the period the policy was live then she can contact the insurers in the first 
instance to ask them if they are willing to consider a retrospective claim. 
Ref: DRN19703893Ms A has also mentioned job seekers allowance in her response to the adjudicators view, 
for the sake of clarity, the adjudicator only referred  to this in their letter because Ms A had 
mentioned this on her questionnaire to us as being  an alternative means of meeting the 
repayments. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms As complaint against  Capital One (Europe) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1970389