K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) were wrong to 
issue an arrears letter  and were  wrong to pursue  payment  of the full account balance  at the 
end of a finance agreement.
background
Mr R took receipt of a new car in December 2013. He financed  the deal through a four year 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS. In October  2017 Mr R says he tried to make a 
payment to reduce the arrears on his account  but he was unable  to as VWFSs payment 
system wasnt  working. Hes therefore upset  that they subsequently sent him an arrears 
letter.
Hes also upset that they are now pursuing him for the final payment and option to purchase  
fee as he says he didnt tell them he wanted to buy the car at the end of the agreement. He 
says he reached an agreement with them over the phone to extend the contract  and 
continue making  monthly payments.
VWFS didnt  agree. They said their payment system  wasnt down when Mr R tried to make a 
payment and they said there were other  payment methods available  to him. So they didnt 
think theyd been  wrong to issue  an arrears  letter. They went  on to explain that they believed  
they were also right to pursue final payment. They said theyd written to Mr R before his 
agreement was due to expire and that, in that letter, theyd explained that if he took no action 
the option to purchase fee would  be debited from his account and the final payment would 
as well. They said there was no agreement to extend the contract and pay monthly.
But Mr R disagreed and he therefore  referred his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  
didnt think VWFS had done  anything wrong.  He listened to the call Mr R had with VWFS in 
December 2017  and noted  Mr R had asked  what would happen if he wanted  to keep the car. 
The adviser confirmed  how much the final payment would be and also confirmed that if Mr R 
returned the car thered  be no payment due back  to him. The adjudicator  noted  that at the 
end of the call Mr R asked  the adviser to make  a note that I would  like to continue and the 
adviser confirmed she would do. So he said he was satisfied no payment arrangements  
were discussed and no agreement was formed to pay the outstanding balance in 
instalments. He therefore didnt think VWFS needed  to take any further action.
But Mr R disagreed. He said that some  of the call had been edited as some of the dialogue 
was missing. He suggested hed been asked whether he wanted to continue and extend  the 
contract and this is what hed asked the agent  to make a note of. He said the call handler  
should have clarified what he meant by continue and he therefore  asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr R so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN15770212Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
There are two aspects to Mr Rs complaint so Ill look at each in turn.
were VWFS right to issue an arrears  letter?
VWFS dispute that their system  was down when Mr R tried to make a payment.  I cant be 
sure if this was the case but I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr R to try other means  
to pay his arrears. So I dont think VWFS were  wrong to issue an arrears letter in those 
circumstances.
were VWFS right to pursue the final payment and option to purchase fee?
The finance  agreement says on the front page  that Mr R must make  48 monthly repayments
 followed by a final payment of £5,408.10 payable 47 months  after the date set for the first 
repayment
So I think its clear from the finance  agreement that the default  position was for the final 
payment to be made.
In November 2017 just before the agreement ended,  VWFS wrote to Mr R and set out his 
options. They were  to part exchange the car; buy the car; refinance the balance  or return the 
vehicle. Again the default was to buy the car and in this letter  VWFS said:
your final payment of £5,468.10  including your option to purchase fee, will be collected  
as normal by direct debit on 20/12/2017
So again,  I think the default  here was that the final payment  would be taken if Mr R didnt tell 
them otherwise.
Mr R called VWFS before  his agreement  ended and Ive listened to this call. There  is a 
discussion about whether Mr R would get anything back  if he returned the car and the agent 
clarifies that thered be no refund. The balloon payment is discussed of £5,408  and Mr R 
ends the call telling the agent  hed like to keep it and asking the agent to make a note. 
There is no discussion about  continuing and extending the contract  or about  refinancing  or 
paying in instalments and I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres evidence the call 
has been edited. 
So I dont  think VWFS have done anything wrong here. The default  position was always  that 
the final payment  and option to purchase fee would  be debited  unless Mr R advised 
Ref: DRN15770213differently. I dont think he did advise differently and in those circumstances  I think  VWFS 
havent done anything wrong  when seeking to collect  final payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1577021