K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  didnt  carry out proper 
affordability checks and shouldnt have agreed to a loan.
background
Mr M took out an instalment loan on 30 July 2016 with Uncle Buck. He had 3 instalments to 
pay with the highest monthly  amount being £120. He repaid the loan early  on 29 August 
2016. 
Uncle Buck  says it took into consideration Mr Ms declared monthly income, his expenditure 
and carried out a credit search when it assessed  his loan application. It says Mr M had 
enough disposable income  and could afford  the loan.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said that Uncle Buck hadnt  carried  
out sufficient checks  based on what he thinks it would have seen in its credit  check. 
He concluded  that if it had carried out further checks it would have seen that the loan was 
unaffordable. He felt it shouldnt have been  granted it. Our adjudicator also made 
suggestions for Uncle Buck to put things right.
Uncle Buck  disagrees  with the adjudicators view. So as both parties still cant agree,  this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Uncle Buck, at the time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr M would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ms indebtedness  in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Uncle Buck act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Uncle Buck did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether      
Mr M could  afford to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck  had to do.
Ref: DRN14578342Uncle Buck  says it asked  about Mr Ms income  and expenditure  and did a credit  check when 
it agreed to give him a loan on 30 July 2016. It says it relied  on the information he gave.
I have looked  at the credit search  results  that Uncle Buck  would have seen at the time it 
granted Mr M the loan. And I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr Ms repayment history  and 
also the total amount given for short term revolving credit it shows  he held should have 
prompted Uncle Buck to carry  out further checks. I think it would have been proportionate  for 
Uncle Buck  to have  been finding out in more detail about  Mr Ms other short  term loans as 
well as his income and expenditure. 
If it had done this, it would have seen  he had a number of other payday loans on top of his 
expenditure. And when these additional amounts  are considered  alongside Mr Ms declared  
living costs,  it shows he had no disposable income to make  repayments for the loan he had 
applied for. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Uncle Buck has shown its checks for the loan 
was sufficient or proportionate.  I consider proportionate checks  would have shown Uncle 
Buck that Mr M couldnt afford to repay the loan. On balance I dont think  the loan shouldve  
been granted. So Uncle Buck should  put right what it did wrong.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to give Mr M the loan. So Uncle Buck  should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to these amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1457834