K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  Management Limited  (HALS)  incorrectly  
handled the transfer of his Santander Help to Buy ISA, resulting in both the bonus  and any 
free transfer space  that was available in his Lifetime ISA calculated wrongly.
background 
In his complaint  Mr B said:
According to HMRC rules, In the 2017/18  tax year you could transfer the balance  of 
your Help to Buy ISA, as it stood on 5 April 2017, into your Lifetime ISA without  this 
affecting the £4,000 limit or ones total annual  ISA limit of £20,000  and that money 
transferred in this way would be eligible for an HMRC 25% top-up. Thus, it would be 
a free transfer
The closing balance of his Help to Buy ISA on the eve of the 2017/18 tax year was 
£1,826.15 so this whole sum should have attracted a 25% bonus  - of £456.54   and 
been permitted  into his Lifetime ISA as a free transfer not affecting  that years  
contribution limits
But HLAS viewed the transfer as an oversubscription of £2,000 and treated the whole 
transfer as such, refunding his entire transferred sum of £2,761 (approx.)
This was wrong as the bonus  for Help to Buy free transfers  relied on the valuation of 
the Help to Buy ISA at a specific  point  in time (the balance at 23.59 on 5 April 2017)
HLAS confirmed that it had accounted the transfer figure as £763.81 with an added 
bonus of £190.96, representing the Help to Buy transfer bonus
This means  that  £456.54  minus  £190.96  has been paid resulting in £265.58  
currently owed in additional bonus
It also means that £763.81  has been  applied as the transfer value of the Help to Buy 
ISA. So the free transfer space has also been  calculated incorrectly
He was entitled to an additional  £1,062.34  in free transfer  space in the Lifetime ISA
This has not only resulted in the oversubscription seeming materially  larger  than it 
might have  been but also caused him to sell equities
The adjudicator  said he wasnt particularly troubled by this which  he finds disturbing
To rectify  the situation HLAS must confirm that it checked the closing balance of the 
Help to Buy ISA with Santander and used  this to make the calculations
If its not done this, it must explain why as this point  is key
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe Mr Bs core complaint should be upheld. He 
said:
Mr B was a  non-advised client who conducted  business on an execution-only basis 
which meant HLAS simply acted on the instructions it received
HLAS reiterated that its been unable  to trace any covering letter  that accompanied 
the application form so he was unable  to conclude that it did not carry out Mr Bs 
wishes
Mr B, in his application  form, requested a full transfer with an estimated transfer 
value of £2,761. So the evidence suggests it completed the transfer correctly
This transfer exceeded  the £20,000 ISA allowance but HLAS wouldnt have known 
this so processed Mr Bs instruction in good  faith. Once completed,  it identified  that 
Mr B had exceeded the current year allowance and so was required to remove this 
sum from his ISA account. It then contacted him to ask how he wanted to proceed
Ref: DRN17743312HLAS wouldnt have had access to any subscription details relating to Mr Bs Help to 
Buy ISA until the transfer was completed,  including what  subscriptions (if any) were 
against the 2017/18 tax year. It was only once the transfer had completed and it 
received the ISA Transfer Form  that it was in a position to reconcile the account. 
Prior to this, it could  only act on the information Mr B provided
HLAS accepted  it didnt contact Mr B as quickly as it should have done, to inform him 
of the over-subscription,  and accepted that this might have resulted in some loss  
from the sale of shares to correct  the oversubscription
As a result, it offered  to review any transaction made to buy back  shares in Mr Bs 
holding but Mr B had provided no evidence about any share  purchases. The 
adjudicator felt HLAS offer had been fair
But he was satisfied  it did nothing  wrong in selling the shares
He also felt its offer of £100 for the delay  in communicating with Mr B was reasonable
He was also satisfied  that HLAS explanation for the transfer figures and the actual  
oversubscription amount made sense and that its documentation supported this
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly, but not exclusively for the same reasons. Given  this, I will not repeat all the 
arguments made by the adjudicator, which I have summarised earlier  in this decision.
Firstly, its important to explain that my role, when  considering a complaint, is to decide 
whether a business clearly did something wrong  or made a mistake, not whether it might 
have done things differently. Also, its important to reiterate that HLASs role was strictly an 
execution-only one, not to offer advice. In this context, Mr B made  a clear request to transfer  
the full balance of his Help to Buy ISA funds into his Lifetime ISA allowance.
 
I note that Mr B says he enclosed a clarifying note with the application but HLAS has found  
no evidence of this. In the absence of this, I am satisfied that HLAS was required to process 
Mr Bs request as stated  on the transfer form.
 
I accept that some of HLASs responses were confusing, if not at times seemingly 
contradictory, and that this has not made it easy to fully investigate  this case. But, based  on 
all the available  evidence,  including the further  submissions  I requested and have received, I 
am not persuaded it behaved  in contravention of the relevant HMRC guidance.
Mr B was able, in theory, to transfer the balance of his Help to Balance as of 5 April 2017  
into his Lifetime ISA without this affecting  his annual  limit and to benefit  from the 
governments 25% top-up. But in fact he made substantial withdrawals from his Help to Buy 
ISA during 2017/18 and then subsequently made  new subscriptions.  So although his Help to 
Buy ISA had only increased in value by just over £800 by the time of the transfer  at the end 
of this tax year (i.e. only £800  above  its 5 April 2017  level) he had in fact paid in £2,000 in 
fresh sums (largely to offset withdrawals). 
Santanders transfer form stated this  that £2,000 had been  paid in during 2017/18. Given  
this, all these payments did count to his overall  £20,000 annual  ISA allowance and his 
£4,000 annual Help to Buy/Lifetime Allowance.
Ref: DRN17743313So he, in effect, lost the right to transfer his balance  just before the start of the 2017/18 tax 
year through these  withdrawals and reinvestments.  Therefore, I am satisfied that HLAS  was 
right to act as it did.
Further, HLAS has said that when  an ISA transfer  exceeds a persons total annual allowance  
it does not calculate, or seek to calculate , what amount could fall within that total allowance 
and choose to split the transfer,  thereby filling up the available space and only 
returning/rejecting the remaining surplus  amount.
Ive not seen HMRC  guidance to say it has to do this, and it may be that other businesses  
may do things differently.  But I am satisfied that HLAS is entitled  to decide to operate  along 
these lines, and its not for me to tell it to do otherwise.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs other points, including his view that HLASs  calculations  are 
incorrect, leaving aside the above  considerations. I do not feel the evidence clearly  supports 
his view, even  though  HLASs original  figures  do not appear to tally with its later ones.
Finally, HLAS  offered what I feel was a fair compensation package before Mr B brought  his 
complaint to this service.  This means, under our rules, I am not upholding his complaint as I 
am satisfied  it offered  a fair resolution before the complaint was referred here. 
I assume HLAS is still prepared to carry out the assessment and pay Mr B £100. But I am 
not instructing  it to do so given it made this offer before Mr B brought  his complaint to us.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1774331