K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) declined  to provide assistance when he made  
a claim under the home  assistance part of his home insurance policy.
background
Mr K has explained that he noticed  a leak appear  in the en-suite shower. He explained the 
leak was coming from a joint on the shower.  So he suspected the problem was with a pipe 
located in the shower  enclosure   behind the tiles. So, Mr K contacted  AXA to make a claim 
under the home assistance part of his home  insurance policy.
AXA said it wasnt able to provide assistance with the issue Mr K reported. It said that Mr Ks 
policy didnt provide cover for a problem with the plumbing, where  a drip or other drainage 
issue was occurring, but the water  was running safely  down the drain. 
And, it said it this part of Mr Ks policy didnt  provide  cover to trace and access  the source of 
the leak. AXA noted the buildings insurance  part of Mr Ks policy did include cover  for trace  
and access. So, it said could consider the loss under Mr Ks buildings  insurance policy. But, 
an excess would apply  to the claim.
Mr K didnt agree with AXAs  decision. He said most home emergencies would involve some 
kind of action to trace and access a problem, because most plumbing, heating  and electrical 
services in a property are concealed. So, he questioned whether the policy was really 
providing cover for problems that might  be experienced in an emergency. 
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He didnt think  the home 
emergency part of Mr Ks policy provided cover  for the claim Mr K had made.  And said trace  
and access wasnt included as part of the home emergency policy Mr K had.
Mr K didnt agree and reiterated his concerns about  the home assistance part of the policy 
not covering tracing and accessing  the source of a leak.
Because Mr K didnt  agree  his complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Ive considered Mr Ks policy documents, to see what cover the home assistance part of his 
policy provides. And I can see that this section of the policy provides emergency assistance 
in the event of certain home  emergencies  outlined in the table from page 39, which  impact 
the safety and security  of your home, potentially rendering it uninhabitable.
The table referred to then does explain AXA will provide emergency assistance when there 
is an emergency relating to the plumbing  for example leaking pipes leading to the shower 
or bath.  But the table  also explains  what instances  the policy does not cover. And I can see 
in respect of the plumbing the policy says;
Ref: DRN19905482What your policy does not cover
Any dripping tap/nozzle or any other  part of the plumbing of drainage system where 
the water  is safely escaping down the drain;
In this instance, Im aware the drip was coming  from the shower joint,  within  the shower 
enclosure. And the water would be going  down the drain in the shower. Because of this, Im 
satisfied AXA acted  reasonably in noting  this particular leak wasnt  covered by the home 
assistance section  of the policy. 
AXA has said that the home  assistance part of Mr Ks policy  doesnt  provide cover for tracing 
and accessing  a leak. But, the buildings insurance part of his policy does. So, it has said it 
can look at the claim  Mr K raised  under the buildings insurance section, with the buildings 
insurance excess applying to this.
Mr K has raised concerns about  this  and feels the home assistance part of the policy  
should be providing cover for locating and accessing the leak.  From previous policies I have 
seen before, Im aware that often a home emergency policy wont  provide  cover for tracing 
and accessing  a leak. Instead,  the policy is designed to respond to the immediate 
emergency an incident such as leak may cause, so as to intercept ongoing  damage. For 
example, turning the water  off, or providing a temporary repair where  possible.  The 
policyholder can then refer to the relevant buildings insurance part of their policy,  which 
covers tracing and accessing a leak, and putting right the damage  caused by this.
Having looked  at Mr Ks policy, Im satisfied this is also the case  in this instance.  Mr Ks 
policy does provide emergency assistance in a number of scenarios, including  leaks.  But, it 
is the buildings insurance part of the policy that provides  cover  for trace  and access. Im 
satisfied the details of this are made  clear  in Mr Ks policy  documents. So, I dont think  AXA 
has done anything  wrong here.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1990548