K822xcomplaint
Miss S has complained  about  the decision to avoid her insurance policy by 
HDI Global Specialty SE, trading at the time as International Insurance Company  of 
Hannover SE (HDI).
Miss S has also complained about HDIs decision to decline her claim for subsidence and 
the behaviour  of its appointed loss adjuster  during her claim. She says her mental health 
issues have been  overlooked and made  worse  by HDI and its agents.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in June 2020 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss S complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Miss S has brought her complaint to our service through a representative. But for 
ease of reference, Ill only refer to Miss S in this decision.
There have also been several businesses who have  acted for HDI at various points 
throughout the claim. Again, for ease of reference  Ill only refer to HDI by name in this 
decision, even  when referring to the actions or arguments of its representatives.
Miss S first took out her buildings and contents insurance policy with HDI through  a 
price comparison  website  in February  2015.  The policy was automatically renewed  
with HDI in 2016 and 2017  through a broker. 
In July 2017 Miss S made a claim about  the presence of cracks and bulging in some  
of the walls at her property. HDI appointed a loss adjuster who visited Miss S 
property in August  2017. The loss adjuster didnt think the damage was consistent  
with an insured event   so the claim was declined.
Following this, Miss S provided HDI with an engineers report, suggesting  there was 
a subsidence  related  problem at her property.  HDI appointed its own structural 
engineer to carry out further investigations. He attended Miss S property in 
October 2017.
HDIs engineer requested  additional evidence from Miss S, including previous reports  
completed by her engineer, a pre-mortgage inspection report carried  out in 2005, 
some information related  to some structural work Miss S had completed in 2006 and 
information about some more recent  drainage repairs.
HDIs engineer issued his report in January 2018. In it he made various  references  to 
the other reports which had been  carried out. To summarise, he found that:
The property had suffered downward  movement during its history, as 
evidenced by the presence of old cracks and previous crack repairs
The engineers  report from 2005 mentioned cracks and concerns about 
movement then.
Ref: DRN18352092The property had also suffered from other structural movement involving lintel 
issues, lateral movement and render issues.
The suggestion that the property  is continuing  to subside is unfounded.  The 
main crack is clearly  old, not mirrored  internally  and hadnt visibly changed in 
several months.
The location of the cracking  is near to where  an internal wall has been 
removed and replaced with a rolled  steel joist (RSJ). When this work took 
place, the engineer  suggested underpinning may have  been needed, but it 
isnt clear whether  this happened. But given the location of the damage,  the 
cracking is clearly connected to this work.
It had been  suggested that the cracking could be related  to drainage works in 
2016  but the cracking is clearly  much older than that.
After sharing his report with HDI, the engineer wrote to Miss S on behalf  of HDI to 
explain that her claim was being  declined. He highlighted an exclusion to the 
subsidence cover  stating that loss or damage  occurring as a result of structural  
alterations wouldnt be covered by her policy.
Miss S said she didnt accept this decision and was seeking further  advice. But 
following this, she didnt  make any contact with HDI until August  2018.  At this point 
she complained  about the decision to decline her claim, the suitability of the policy  
and the behaviour of HDI and its engineer, including its failure to properly  take into 
account her mental  health issues. She said the engineer had been told he could only 
enter her property if she was accompanied, but he barged in when she was alone  
and was rude and aggressive toward her.
HDI responded to these  issues,  in separate letters, between  September  and 
October 2018. It maintained that the claim should be declined based on the report  
from its engineer. And it provided signed statements from the engineer  and the 
person who accompanied him on the site visit, contradicting Miss S recollections 
about his conduct.
In October  2018, HDI wrote to Miss S explaining that the decision had been made to 
avoid her policy from inception. It said she had failed to inform  it about cracks or 
bulging at the property when she took out the policy and again  at each renewal. Had 
she done so, it said it wouldnt  have offered any cover. HDI said it had considered 
Miss S reasons for not mentioning the cracking and bulging, but it felt it was clear 
that she knew about them and failed to disclose them. HDI said it would return all 
premiums to Miss S. 
Miss S argued that due to her mental health  issues, she wasnt  capable of 
understanding her insurance policy/renewals  or of making accurate statements at the 
time. She said HDI had failed to properly consider her mental health issues 
throughout its dealings with her and has reached  an unfair decision in both the claim 
and the decision  to avoid the policy. So, she brought her complaint our service.  
Ref: DRN18352093Our investigator thought Miss S had been asked clear questions  when she took out 
the policy, and she was satisfied she answered  them incorrectly. She also thought 
the renewal information Miss S later received  was clear. She said she didnt doubt 
Miss S health issues but said she hadnt seen  any evidence  that she would have 
been unable  to answer the questions she was asked  at inception of the policy.  She 
highlighted that Miss S was in full time employment  at the time the policy was sold,  
and renewed, and said Miss S hadnt made HDI or the broker  aware of her mental 
health issues, or any challenges  in understanding insurance information.  So, overall, 
she thought HDIs  decision to avoid the policy was fair. Because  of this, she said it 
wouldnt be liable for Miss S claim either.
Our investigator said she hadnt  seen enough  evidence to be able to reasonably 
conclude that HDIs engineer had behaved  inappropriately  during his site visit. But 
she did agree that HDI could have acted differently after being told about Miss S 
mental health issues in October 2017. She said HDI had enough information to avoid 
the policy when  it received  the 2005 report, in October 2017. She accepted that 
HDIs normal process is to obtain a statement  from the policyholder before making  a 
final decision  on avoiding a policy. But she felt it could have acted  more  quickly  to 
obtain this information from the broker when it was clear Miss S wasnt responding  
so that she could have been  given all the bad news together  rather than separately.  
So, our investigator recommended that HDI should  pay Miss S £400 for the 
additional distress  it caused  by failing  to reach its conclusion more  quickly.
HDI accepted  our investigators assessment,  but Miss S didn't. So, because no 
agreement has been able to be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has complained  about  HDIs decision to avoid her policy as well as its 
decision to decline her claim. Ill consider the former first, as if its decision to avoid  
the policy is fair, then the policy will have never existed and so the claim cannot 
possibly be covered.
the decision to avoid the policy
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This gives HDI certain  remedies if, when  Miss S applied  for or 
renewed her policy, she made  what the Act describes as a Qualifying 
Misrepresentation. The Act requires Miss S to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And to be entitled to avoid Miss S policy,  HDI needs to show  she 
didnt do this and that it wouldnt have offered Miss S cover. The standard used to 
decide whether  Miss S failed to take reasonable care is the standard of a reasonable 
consumer.
HDI has provided evidence of the questions  Miss S was asked at the point of sale,  
and again at each renewal. I think the questions were clear  and that Miss S would 
have understood  she needed to declare the pre-existing  cracking at her property  
which she didnt.
Ref: DRN18352094HDI has also provided extracts of its underwriting guidance, applicable for each 
sale/renewal, which  show that had it been  aware of pre-existing  cracking  at Miss S 
property it wouldnt have  offered cover. Based on all of this, I think  Miss S made a 
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.  Ordinarily this would  mean HDIs decision 
to avoid the policy from inception and return the premiums would be fair. But I also 
need to consider the specific circumstances in this case.
In this case I dont think  it is fair for HDI to avoid  Miss S policy based on 
misrepresentations at the point of sale or each renewal. I say this because HDI 
based its decision to avoid the policy on information  it had available  in January 2018.  
But instead  of avoiding the policy at this stage, HDI decided to decline Miss S claim, 
relying on an exclusion in the policy document. By doing so, I believe it affirmed the 
insurance contract.
HDI cant fairly confirm a contract of insurance  as valid,  by relying on the terms of the 
policy to decline a claim, and then later seek to avoid the policy based on a 
misrepresentation(s) it was aware  of when it made the decision to decline the claim. 
There needs to be certainty for consumers, and insurers need to act when they find 
out about a misrepresentation. The exception to this would be if HDI made it clear to 
Miss S that it was investigating a misrepresentation and what  this could mean for the 
validity of her policy  effectively reserving its right to avoid  the policy.
I can see that HDI was investigating the misrepresentation before it made  the 
decision to decline the claim. But I havent seen anything to suggest that it made 
Miss S aware of this, or what it might mean for her. Instead, it decided  not to proceed 
with the misrepresentation investigation and to decline the claim instead. It only later 
revisited this when Miss S continued to dispute  the declined  claim. So, taking into 
account the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think  HDI can fairly avoid 
Miss S policy for failing  to declare the pre-existing cracks at her property. This is 
because HDI affirmed the contract when  it first decided to decline the claim.
Miss S policy had lapsed, and she had changed underwriters, when HDI made  the 
decision to avoid her policy. HDI has also already  returned the premiums  Miss S paid 
for the each of the three  policy years because the policy had been avoided.  So, Ive 
thought about what this means for how things should be put right in this case.
As Ive explained, I dont  think  HDIs decision  to avoid the policy  was fair. When 
thinking about how HDI should  put this right for Miss S, Ive considered what  it needs  
to do to place  Miss S back in the position she would have been  in (as far as possible) 
as if HDIs error hadnt occurred. Usually, in these circumstances,  I would require 
HDI to reinstate Miss S policy, subject to Miss S repaying the premiums  that HDI 
refunded to her. And I would require HDI to remove all records of the avoidance  from 
the relevant databases. However,  given  that Miss S chose to lapse her policy before 
HDI made the decision to avoid  the contract, I will assume Miss S doesnt now want  
HDI to reinstate her cover. That means  Miss S will have received three years of 
refunded policy premiums, totalling  around £630, that HDI shouldnt have returned  to 
her (because it shouldnt have avoided her policy). 
Ref: DRN18352095Our investigator recommended HDI pay £400 compensation, however I think  this 
should be increased to £600.  I say that because of the impact  that HDIs actions 
have had on Miss S. Not only will this have  been  upsetting and distressing for her, 
but having an avoidance incorrectly recorded against her will likely  have made  it 
more difficult for her to obtain another policy  or at the very least  made it more 
expensive. If this is the case, once HDI has removed  the record  of the avoidance 
from the relevant  databases, Miss S can approach her current  insurer  for a refund of 
any additional premiums  it charged her due to this. But although this will mean she 
isnt out of pocket,  shell  still need to go through the inconvenience  of contacting her 
current insurer about this. 
As HDI has already  paid Miss S around £630, when it incorrectly voided her policy 
and refunded three years of premiums,  rather than require  Miss S to return the 
premiums before HDI removes all records of the avoidance  from the relevant 
databases, Im currently minded to require HDI to offset the returned  premiums 
against my award  for compensation. To be clear, this means that Miss S can retain 
the refunded premiums  and HDI doesnt need to pay anything further. But HDI must 
remove any record of the policy  avoidance from all relevant databases. 
the decision to decline the claim
As I dont think HDIs decision to avoid the policy was fair, Ill now go on to consider 
HDIs decision to decline Miss S claim.
Miss S has argued that HDI hasnt properly investigated the cracking  at her property. 
She says it has simply reviewed existing reports to reach its findings.
From what  Ive seen, HDI appointed a suitably qualified engineer to attend  Miss S 
property and view the damage. The engineer  then requested copies of several 
reports which had already been  completed,  as well as information relating to previous 
structural works which had been  carried out. 
The engineer reports Miss S had commissioned herself highlighted that several 
areas of damage  were  due to causes other than subsidence  for example lateral  
movement or the deterioration of a lintel  neither  of which are covered by her policy. 
The only area Miss S report  suggested could be as a result  of subsidence was to the 
rear of the property.  
HDIs engineer assessed  this area and pointed out in his report that this damage  is 
adjacent to where an internal wall was removed and replaced  with an RSJ in 2006. 
He also assessed  other  potential  causes  suggested by Miss S engineers, such as a 
broken drainpipe leaking in 2016   but it was his view that the cracking was clearly 
much older than that. Ultimately, he felt that cracking in this location was most likely 
caused as a result of these structural works  and the changes in the distribution  of 
loads.
Miss S policy provides cover for damage  caused  by subsidence, but excludes  
damage occurring  as a direct result of the buildings undergoing structural alterations 
or structural repairs. This was the exclusion relied  upon to decline Miss S claim. So, 
taking everything into account, I think HDIs decision to decline Miss S claim is in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy, and is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN18352096the behaviour  of HDIs engineer
Miss S has also complained about the behaviour of HDIs engineer  during his site 
visit in October 2017. She says he had been told that he couldnt attend her property 
without her representative being  present. But he turned  up earlier than agreed,  
barged inside and was rude and aggressive toward her.
HDI has refuted Miss S claims. It says two engineers were present  at the visit, not 
just the one Miss S has complained about.  It has provided a signed  statement from 
the other engineer which explains Miss S invited them in, despite  her representative 
not being present, and was happy  to show them around and discuss  the issues. They  
say they were still present when Miss S representative arrived  and that the engineer 
spent time discussing the various issues with the representative before leaving. They 
have also provided  a photograph, from the visit, in which Miss S representative is 
visible, to support this.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that HDIs 
engineer acted inappropriately.
I said I was intending  to direct HDI to treat Miss S policy as if it was never  avoided,  including  
removing all records of the avoidance  from the relevant databases. I also said it could treat 
the premiums it refunded  Miss S as compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision.
HDI accepted  my provisional  decision and said it didnt have any further comments  or 
evidence for me to consider.  
Miss S didnt accept  my provisional findings. To summarise, she said:
The cracking and bulging arent  historic,  and only appeared close to the start of her 
claim.
She has spent a great deal of money on decorating and maintaining her property 
which shows she would have addressed significant cracking if it was present.
Shes had four mortgages go through, so clearly any cracking  wasnt a problem. If it 
was present at the time,  surely  it would have come up on the mortgage surveys.
The issues are being caused by water  leaking from a pipe.
HDI have used  many different reasons  to decline her claim.
She doesnt believe she was asked about cracking or bulging when she took out the 
policy. She feels this is a new question and not one she was asked when taking  out 
the policy.
In my provisional decision I said HDI cant fairly avoid  her policy,  so she feels  that 
means it shouldnt have refused her claim.
I was wrong to assume she doesnt want the policy reinstated  she does.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered all the 
new comments and evidence sent in response  to my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN18352097While Miss S has raised several different points, Ill not be addressing them  all in this final 
decision. Instead, Ill focus  on only those  I consider to be material to the outcome of her 
complaint.
Miss S says she doesnt  believe she was asked to declare  cracking/bulging  when  she took 
out the policy. She says none  of her previous policies included this question.  She believes it 
is new and that HDI are trying to apply it retrospectively. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Ive seen evidence to support that HDI asked 
about cracking and bulging,  and how the question was answered by Miss S. Previous 
policies Miss S has had may not have included this question, but that doesnt mean that it 
wasnt asked when  she took out, and renewed,  this policy. While I appreciate that Miss S 
recollections are genuinely  held, I also need to bear in mind  that memories can, and do, fade 
over time. Ultimately,  Im persuaded  by the evidence provided by HDI that Miss S was asked 
about cracking/bulging and that she answered no. 
Miss S says the cracking in question isnt historic and only appeared reasonably  close to the 
time when  she first raised  her claim. Based on this she says even if she was asked about 
previous cracking  or bulging at her property, when she took out the policy  and during 
renewals, she still would have answered  no.
Ive thought carefully about Miss S argument here.  But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, its clear from the pre-mortgage survey  completed in 2005 that Miss S was aware 
that the property  had suffered from cracking previously. Comments  from HDIs engineer  also 
highlighted several areas  of cracking  understood to be old and it was his opinion  that the 
crack to the rear of the property would have been  present prior to 2016.  I also note that 
Miss S has said, through her representative,  that she was aware of cracking at the property 
soon after she bought the house. So, by answering  no to the question  about cracking or 
bulging, Im satisfied Miss S made  a misrepresentation.
Taking into account all the available evidence  and arguments, Im satisfied that Miss S made  
a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. I say this because I believe she was asked a 
clear question and that she didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when answering  it. And because HDI has shown that if correct  information had been 
provided, when  Miss S answered  the question, it would  not have offered cover.
Insurers have certain  remedies, available under CIDRA, where  a policyholder  makes  a 
qualifying misrepresentation. These depend on whether  the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless  or if it was careless.  Where  a misrepresentation is careless, and the 
insurer can show that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover,  the 
insurer can avoid the policy  from inception. But it must return  the premiums paid by the 
consumer. This is what HDI did when it avoided Miss S policy.
However, as I set out in my provisional  decision, I dont think HDI can fairly avoid Miss S 
policy, taking into account the specific circumstances of this case. This is because HDI 
decided to decline Miss S claim instead of avoiding her policy  at a time when it had 
enough information to know about the misrepresentations. In doing  so, I think it affirmed the 
insurance contract.  But just because HDI cant fairly avoid Miss S policy,  doesnt mean it 
automatically needs to cover her claim.
Ref: DRN18352098I should explain at this point that it isnt for me to decide whether or not Miss S property is 
suffering from subsidence, or what the cause  of the cracking is. What I need  to decide is 
whether the decision  HDI has reached  is in line with the terms and conditions  of her policy  
and is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
When Miss S reported her claim,  HDI instructed a loss adjuster to visit her property and 
assess the damage  which is what I would expect  it to do. The loss adjuster didnt feel the 
damage had been  caused by an insured peril and he didnt think  the claim should  be 
covered under Miss S accidental damage cover. But when Miss S provided her own expert 
evidence suggesting  the property may be suffering from subsidence,  HDI appointed  a 
subsidence expert to visit the property to investigate  and produce a report  which  again is 
what I would  have  expected to see. So, Im satisfied that HDI has appropriately investigated 
Miss S claim before reaching  its decision.
HDIs subsidence expert conducted  his own site visit as well as assessing  many different 
expert reports on the property and the areas of damage.  It is his expert opinion that the 
cracking clearly predates 2016. He says the cracking is in the same location  as previous 
structural repairs and these repairs are the most likely cause of the damage. He doesnt 
believe there is any evidence to suggest  that the property is suffering from subsidence.
HDI decided to decline Miss S claim based on the expert opinion of its engineer  and an 
exclusion in Miss S policy for damage  caused  by previous structural  repairs. Taking into 
account the evidence Ive seen, I think it was fair and reasonable for HDI to make this 
decision. 
Miss S says that as well as removing all records of the avoidance  from the relevant 
databases, she also wants  HDI to reinstate  her policy. 
Because of the particular circumstances of this claim, Miss S policy wasnt avoided  until 
after it had lapsed,  and she had taken out cover through  another underwriter. This means 
that by removing all records  of the avoidance,  Miss S policy  with HDI will, in effect, have  
been reinstated  up until that point.  But this doesnt change the fact that Miss S allowed the 
policy to lapse in 2018.
Miss S insurance policy is renewed annually, and each renewal is a new contract of 
insurance. This means  at each renewal  HDI is able to decide  whether to continue  offering 
cover  based on a new assessment of the risks. 
HDI is now aware that Miss S property has a history of cracking and bulging. And I have 
seen from its underwriting guides  that it deems this to be an uninsurable risk. So, while I 
think it is fair and reasonable that HDI needs  to reinstate Miss S policy  until the point it 
lapsed  this doesnt mean it needs to continue to offer cover for each new policy  year. The 
risks which an insurer  is prepared to accept, and those it isnt, are commercial  decisions and 
not something our service  can interfere with.
Ultimately, by removing all record of the avoidance from the relevant databases and paying 
compensation for trouble  and upset, in line with my provisional decision,  I think  HDI will 
deliver a fair and reasonable outcome to Miss S complaint. 
Ref: DRN18352099my final decision
For the reasons  I've explained above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss S 
complaint in part.
HDI Global Specialty SE must:
Treat Miss S policy  as if it was never  avoided   including  removing  all records  of the 
avoidance from the relevant databases*
Consider the premiums it refunded as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Miss S
* This will effectively remove the avoided policy  from Miss S record so she is free, if she wishes, to now 
approach her new insurer to explain that and ask for it to refund any extra premium she paid as a result 
of the avoidance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1835209