K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Mr C says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further  comments following the issuing  of my provisional 
decision. As I havent received any new information or points to consider, I see no reason to 
change my previous  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  in my provisional decision,  I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12701842copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2007. Mr C 
says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage in 2006. In 2007, he took out a further advance  on the mortgage and at 
this point the PPI policy was also taken  out.
Mr C paid a monthly  amount  for the policy. The policy covered him for accident and sickness only 
and, in the event of him making a successful claim  it would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 
12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint as he felt that Santander hadnt made it clear enough that the 
policy was optional. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr C said the PPI was sold to him during  a meeting  in branch but Santander has told us it was a 
telephone sale. And from looking at the paperwork that Ive been given, I think the policy was sold 
during a telephone call. Santander had to make it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mr C had to 
agree to take it out. Mr C has said he was told taking the PPI would help him to get his mortgage  and 
so this is why he felt he had to take it out.
Santander no longer has a copy  of the call, which is understandable considering how long ago this 
was. But it has provided a copy of its sales script which  it says its representative would have used 
during the phone call. Whilst I dont know exactly what was said during the conversation,  I dont have 
any persuasive evidence to make me think  the call didnt follow this structure. This document refers  
to sending  a quote for the customer to review,  which  I wouldnt expect  to see if the policy was a 
requirement of the mortgage.
Ive also been given copies  of the High level needs  analysis which  was completed during the 
telephone call. Santander  has said a copy of this would have been sent to Mr C after the call. This 
document includes  personal  details about Mr C and there are a set of questions  which relate to 
different types  of insurance and investment products.  I can see that answers  have been noted  next 
to each question, detailing whether or not Mr C wanted to discuss taking these  products. Towards 
the end of this document it shows that Mr C wanted to protect his mortgage against accident,  
sickness and unemployment but that he chose to take out cover for accident and sickness only.  This 
would indicate that a discussion took place and Mr C chose  to take out the cover that he felt would 
be most appropriate for him.
Following his application for the further advance, an offer letter was sent to Mr C. This document 
states that it isnt a requirement  to take out any insurance  with Santander. So if Mr C had been 
Ref: DRN12701843told he had to take out the policy in order to get this borrowing, I think he would have questioned 
this with Santander  when  he received the offer letter.
Ive also noted Mr C didnt take out PPI when he applied  for his mortgage in 1996.  So his mortgage 
was already in existence before he took out the policy.  And based on this I think  its likely  that Mr C 
agreed to take out the PPI knowing it was an optional  product and has perhaps since forgotten, 
given the passage of time. Either way there isnt enough evidence for me to say that Mr C wasnt 
given a fair choice. So I think Santander made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Santander recommended the policy  to Mr C so it had to check  that the policy  was right for him. And 
based on what Ive been told about his personal  circumstances, I think  it was. I say this because he 
was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations to the cover, such as unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition 
of which he was already  aware.
And it looks like it could  have  been useful  for him. Mr C has told us that sick pay was provided at his 
employers discretion.  Whilst I appreciate  his comments about why it would  be unlikely he wouldnt be 
paid if he was off work due to sickness, this wasnt guaranteed. The PPI policy would  have met his 
monthly mortgage repayments for up to 12 months and this would have been in addition  to any sick 
pay that he did receive. As Mr C was taking out additional  borrowing  which was be secured against 
his home, I think this policy would have given him reassurance that he would be covered if something 
was to go wrong.
Its possible the information  Santander  gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
For example, its unclear  how well Santander explained what the policy would  cost or what it might 
pay out if he made a claim. But, for the same  reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it.
So overall, when taking everything into consideration, I dont think  Mr C has lost out as a result of 
anything that Santander may have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above I dont intend to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN1270184