K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the customer service he received from Clydesdale  bank Plc after 
his wife passed away. To put matters right he wants Clydesdale  to ensure that no other 
customer is treated as he was at such a sad and vulnerable time.
background
Mr S and his wife, Mrs S, had a mortgage account with Clydesdale.  I am very sorry to note 
that Mrs S passed away in November 2018. Mr S went into his local branch to inform the 
bank of Mrs Ss death. He was told someone from the bereavement  team would be in touch 
within four days.  
It wasnt until 11 days later that someone  spoke  to Mr S, and that was because  Mr S says he 
had to chase them up.
The mortgage repayments were made from an account in Mrs Ss sole name.  Clydesdale  
told Mr S that the account would be secured. By this the bank meant frozen.  As a result, 
payment wasnt made to the mortgage  account and Clydesdale put the account into arrears.  
This caused Mr S considerable distress.
He complained and Clydesdale acknowledged  its customer service had fallen short of the 
standard Mr S should have been  given. The bank accepted that in November 2019 it could, 
and should, have arranged for money  to be transferred out of the late Mrs Ss account  to pay 
the mortgage. 
Clydesdale also accepted that internal communication had been poor, as a result  of which a 
direct debit which Mr S thought he had set up hadnt  been put into effect. I see that on 
29 November 2018 a manual payment was made  for the mortgage repayment,  which  
brought the account up to date. Clydesdale has confirmed that no adverse information  has 
been noted on Mr Ss credit file.
In particular, Mr S is very unhappy that, when he was shopping  for a wreath for his wifes 
grave on 23 December  2018, he received a phone call from Clydesdale  asking him to set up 
a direct debit, even though hed already done  this.
To compensate Mr S for its poor service, Clydesdale  paid compensation of £150.  Mr S didnt 
think this was adequate, so he brought  his complaint to us. An adjudicator looked at what 
had happened. Having  done so, he acknowledged Clydesdales service  had been  poor,  but 
thought that the £150 compensation  was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the adjudicators findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arose from upsetting circumstances for Mr S, and I would like to express  my 
condolences for his loss. Its not disputed  by Clydesdale that it could have given  Mr S better 
service at a time when  he was trying to cope with the loss of his wife. I agree with Mr S that 
Clydesdales actions  lacked sensitivity  and that he was caused  distress.  
Ref: DRN12450182It seems  to me that Mr Ss local branch and the centralised customer support teams werent 
clear enough  about  what each of them were doing,  as a result of which  they were at cross-
purposes. This caused confusion over the mortgage  repayment and direct debit, which in 
turn resulted  in Mr S suffering distress  and upset.
What I have to decide is whether the £150 offered by Clydesdale  is fair and reasonable. 
But I dont have the power to tell Clydesdale what policies and processes it should  have  in 
place when a customer has been  bereaved. Clydesdale has a policy to do this, but on this 
occasion communication failed. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the £150 paid by Clydesdale is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  Its proportionate for the length of time taken to sort out the confusion 
Clydesdale caused  Mr S. I dont think Clydesdale needs to pay more  compensation.
As I said above, I cant tell Clydesdale  how to run its business.  But I see from its final 
response letter that the bank has confirmed that feedback will be given to the parties 
involved. So I hope it will set Mr Ss mind at rest to know that a lesson has been  learned and 
that, hopefully,  Clydesdale  will not repeat the same  mistake  again in the future.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  the compensation 
already paid by Clydesdale Bank Plc is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245018