K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave him loans
that he couldnt afford to repay.  The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ws behalf by
a claims management  company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken
by Mr W.
background
Mr W was given five loans  by Sunny between July 2016 and October 2017. Each of the
loans was repayable by 14 monthly  instalments. At the time Mr W brought his complaint to
us, the first four loans  had been  fully repaid. But a balance remained outstanding on his final
loan which  had been sold to a third party. A summary of Mr Ws borrowing from Sunny is as 
follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 20/07/2016 07/02/2017 £ 1,200
2 14/09/2016 07/02/2017 £ 100
3 19/10/2016 07/02/2017 £ 100
4 24/04/2017 16/08/2017 £ 200
5 12/10/2017 - £600
Mr W said that suitable affordability checks hadnt been carried  out. He had relied  on payday
loans since 2016  and had been  borrowing  from four other lenders. The granting of payday
loans that werent  affordable prevented him from meeting essential living expenses.
Sunny said that it had conducted creditworthiness checks and considered  how Mr W had
managed his other debts. But there  were  indicators that the product may not have been
suitable for Mr Ws needs and it said that Loan  1 shouldnt have been granted.  So it offered
to refund the interest  and charges on Loan  1, pay 8% statutory interest  on the refunds and
remove adverse entries about the loan from Mr Ws credit file. But as Mr W had an 
outstanding balance, it would apply the refunds to that balance  and write off the remaining
£194.50 as a gesture of goodwill.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator hadnt considered Loan  1 as Sunny had offered to compensate Mr W for
this. But she said that Sunnys checks  on Loans 2 to 4 were sufficient. She didnt think that
the checks before Loan 5 went far enough  and said that Sunny should have completed a full
review of Mr Ws finances. If it had done  so, it would have  seen that Mr W had no disposable
income. So the adjudicator recommended that Sunny should:-
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mr W paid on Loans 1 and 5;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date
  of settlement*;
- In relation to the outstanding debt, Sunny should  buy back  the debt (if it has been sold to a
  third party, refund Mr W the interest  and charges hed already  paid to it (and if applicable to
  the third party) in relation to the outstanding loan, and pay 8% simple interest from the date
Ref: DRN11063272  of the payment to the date of settlement;
- Apply the overall refund to reduce the outstanding  balance and pay any balance to
  Mr W;
- Remove any negative information  about those loans from Mr Ws credit file.
- Instruct  the third party (if applicable) to remove any negative information about  those loans       
from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  the
tax.
Sunny accepted the adjudicators recommendations. But Mr W disagreed  and asked for an
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Sunny on 20 December  2018.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that Sunny had offered to compensate Mr W for Loan  1 so I said that I wouldnt be 
considering that loan in my provisional  decision. But I said that I might refer to it to provide 
context in terms of the lending  history. And I would also refer to Sunnys offer to provide 
compensation for Loan 1 in my proposed award.
I explained that Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to make 
sure Mr W could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing, the length  of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mr W 
borrowed from Sunny. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps  to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The regulations define sustainable as being able to make 
repayments without  undue difficulty,  and that this means borrowers should be able to make 
their repayments on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to 
meet these repayments.
Sunny had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. Before Loans 2 to 5,
Sunny had carried out a credit check and asked  Mr W for details of his income and his 
regular expenditure.
Loan 2
Mr W was still repaying Loan 1 (14 monthly  instalments of around £158) when he applied for
Loan 2. Loan 2 was for £100 and was to be repayable by 13 instalments of £13.36 and a
final instalment of £13.26. Mr W had declared a monthly income of £1,500 to Sunny and
regular expenditure of £500 which included credit commitments of £150.
But Id noted that Sunnys credit check appeared to show that Mr W had monthly  credit
commitments of £592. As Mr W had told Sunny he was spending £150 on credit  
commitments each  month, I thought the results of the credit check might have suggested to 
Ref: DRN11063273Sunny that Mr Ws declared  expenditure wasnt accurate. So, I thought that Sunny should 
have been concerned about whether it knew enough  about  Mr Ws financial situation before 
lending to him, especially as Mr W was committing to making the loan repayments  over 
14 months. So I thought  it would have  been  proportionate for Sunny to have asked some 
questions about  what the credit  checks  showed. I couldnt see that it had done  this.
Loan 3
Mr W was still repaying Loans 1 and 2 (combined  monthly instalments  of around £171) when
he applied  for Loan  3. Loan 3 was also for £100  and was to be repayable  by 13 instalments
of £13.20 and a final instalment of £13.18.  Mr W had again declared a monthly income  of
£1,500 to Sunny and regular expenditure of £500  which included credit  commitments of
£150.
But Id noted that Sunnys credit check again appeared to show that Mr W had monthly credit
commitments of £592. As Mr W had told Sunny he was spending £150 on credit
commitments each  month, I again thought  the results of the credit check might have 
suggested to Sunny that Mr Ws declared  expenditure wasnt accurate. I also thought Sunny 
ought to have been concerned as to why a person with an apparently  relatively high level of 
disposable income was coming  back to it for a third loan in just under three months.  So, I 
thought it would have again  been proportionate for Sunny  to have asked  some  questions 
about what the credit checks  showed.  I couldnt see that it did this.
Loan 4
Mr W applied  for Loan 4 just less than six months after Loan  3 was repaid. The loan of £200
was to be repaid  by 14 instalments of around £28.57. Mr W had declared an income of
£1,500 and regular expenditure of £450 with no credit commitments  declared. In view of 
Mr Ws borrowing  history, I thought that Sunny  might  again have been concerned as to why 
Mr W needed a loan with a declared  disposable income of over £1,000. But Id also noted 
that Sunnys credit  check appeared  to show that Mr W had monthly credit commitments  of 
£418. As Mr W had told Sunny he had no credit commitments, I again thought the results of 
the credit  check might  have suggested  to Sunny that Mr Ws declared expenditure wasnt 
accurate. So I again  thought it would have been  proportionate for Sunny to have asked Mr W 
some questions about what the credit checks showed.
Loan 5
Loan 5 was for the increased amount of £600 and was repayable over 445 days  by
13 instalments of £81.02 and a final instalment of £81.01.  Mr W had again declared a
monthly income of £1,500 and regular  expenditure of £375 including credit  commitments of
£50. Sunnys credit check appeared to show that Mr W had monthly  credit  commitments of
£549. I again thought  the results of the credit  check might have suggested to Sunny  that it
couldnt rely on Mr Ws declared expenditure. I also thought that Mr Ws borrowing history 
might have suggested to Sunny that Mr W was using short  term loans as a supplement  to 
his normal income, rather  than using them to meet a temporary  one-off  problem, and that his
finances were likely to be under  some pressure. So I thought it might have been  
proportionate at that time for Sunny to have independently reviewed  the true state of Mr Ws 
finances. It couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of Mr Ws 
income and expenditure such as payslips and bills or it couldve looked at things like his 
bank statements. I couldnt see that it did this.
Although I didnt think the checks Sunny  made on Loans 2 to 5 were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Ws complaint should succeed. I also needed  to be persuaded that the
Ref: DRN11063274proportionate checks Id described  above  would have shown Sunny that Mr W couldnt
sustainably afford these loans. So Id looked at Mr Ws bank statements to see what  better
checks would have  shown  Sunny.
Loan 2
As Id said above,  I thought Sunny needed to ask Mr W some questions about  what  the 
credit checks showed. So Id tried to find out more about this by looking at Mr Ws bank
statements for the month prior to the loan, to see what better checks  would have suggested
to Sunny.  I could see that Mr Ws monthly  income was £1,508.63, which  was around what
hed declared  to Sunny. But, I also noted that Mr W had received payday loans from other 
lenders totalling  £540  which would have required payment around the same time as Sunnys 
loan.
I could also see Mr W was paying a number of regular financial commitments  totalling 
around £470. So I could see that Mr W wouldnt have had sufficient disposable income to 
repay the combined repayments for Loans  1 and 2 after payment of his other financial 
commitments, payday loans and living costs (using the figure hed declared to Sunny less 
the amount of £150 hed declared for credit commitments).  So, if Sunny had carried out what 
I considered to be proportionate  checks before the loan, I thought  it was likely that these 
would have suggested that the loan wasnt sustainable. So I thought  Sunny was wrong to 
give Mr W this loan.
Loans 3 and 4
As Id said above,  I thought Sunny needed to ask Mr W some questions about  what  the 
credit checks showed for these loans. So Id tried to find out more about  this by looking at 
Mr Ws bank statements  for the months prior to these loans, to see what  better checks  would 
have suggested  to Sunny. 
With regard to Loan 3, Mr Ws income was around  £1,502. But I could  see that by looking at 
Mr Ws payday loans totalling  £400 (which would  have required repayment around  the same  
time as Loan  3), regular financial commitments  of around £480 and living costs (using the 
figure hed declared  to Sunny less the amount of £150 hed declared for credit  commitments)  
that he wouldnt have  had enough disposable  income to meet  the combined repayments  for 
Loans 1, 2 and 3 in a sustainable way. He would only have had a small amount of money left 
for unforeseen expenses.  So I didnt  think a responsible lender would have considered  this a 
sustainable loan.
With regard to Loan 4, Mr Ws income had decreased to around £1,365. But hed taken out
payday loans  of around £923 which would have had to be repaid around the same time as
Loan 4. And after payment of his other  financial commitments of around £102  and living
costs (using the figure of £450 hed declared  to Sunny),  Mr W wouldnt have had any
disposable income left to repay Loan 4.
Loan 5
With regard to Loan 5, as Id said above,  I thought Sunny should have been independently
checking what Mr W was earning  and spending  each month. So Id tried to do this by
looking at Mr Ws bank statements in the month  before  this loan to see what  better checks
would have shown  Sunny.  The bank  statements  might  not have shown Sunny everything it
wouldve seen by carrying out proportionate  checks.  But I thought that the bank statements 
were the best indication  of Mr Ws ability to afford  the loan at the time it was approved.  So I 
didnt think it was unreasonable  to rely on these.
Ref: DRN11063275Id checked Mr Ws bank  statements for the month  before Loan 5. I could see that the
transactions in his account showed  normal  living costs and regular financial commitments of
around £1,435  and payday loans of £860  which would have had to be repaid around the
same time as Loan 5. As Mr Ws income  was around £1,457, I could see that proportionate
checks would have  shown  Sunny  that Mr W wasnt  able to sustainably repay this loan,  while
meeting his other expenditure.
So, I thought if Sunny had done  what I considered to be proportionate  checks,  it would have 
seen the problems with Mr Ws financial situation.  And so, as a responsible lender, I didnt 
think it would  have  agreed to lend Loans 2 to 5 to him.
To settle  the complaint, and taking into account  the offer Sunny had already made  for
Loan 1, I thought Sunny should:-
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ws account for Loans 1 to 4 and
    pay  8% simple interest*  a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr W has paid on Loan 5, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balance on Loan  5 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
    Sunny should also refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the
    outstanding balance  on Loan  5 (since T will expect to collect  this money from Mr W).
3. As Loan 5 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr W in full and no
    deductions should be made by Sunny. But, if Sunny buys  back Loan 5 from T within
    21 days of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision, it might apply the refunds referred to
    above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5, and pay any balance to Mr W;
    and
4. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file with regard to
    Loans 1 to 4 (and Loan 5 if Sunny buys it back). If Loan 5 has to remain with T, then
    Sunny is to assist Mr W, so far as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Elevate Credit International Limited, 
trading as Sunny, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ws account for Loans 1 to 4 and
    pay  8% simple interest*  a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr W has paid on Loan 5, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balance on Loan  5 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
    Sunny should also refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the
    outstanding balance  on Loan  5 (since T will expect to collect  this money from Mr W);
3. As Loan 5 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr W in full and no
    deductions should be made by Sunny. But, if Sunny buys  back Loan 5 from T within
    21 days of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision, it might apply the refunds referred to
    above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5, and pay any balance to Mr W;
Ref: DRN11063276    and
4. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file with regard to
    Loans 1 to 4 (and Loan 5 if Sunny buys it back). If Loan 5 has to remain with T, then
    Sunny is to assist Mr W, so far as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
Mr W responded to say that he accepted  my provisional decision. 
Sunny hasnt provided any further  information  in response to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr W has accepted my provisional  decision  and Sunny hasnt given  me anything 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the complaint and require Sunny to pay Mr W 
some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ws account for Loans 1 to 4 and
    pay  8% simple interest*  a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr W has paid on Loan 5, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balance on Loan  5 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
    Sunny should also refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the
    outstanding balance  on Loan  5 (since T will expect to collect  this money from Mr W);
3. As Loan 5 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr W in full and no
    deductions should be made by Sunny. But, if Sunny buys  back Loan 5 from T within
    21 days of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision, it might apply the refunds referred to
    above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5, and pay any balance to Mr W;
    and
4. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file with regard to
    Loans 1 to 4 (and Loan 5 if Sunny buys it back). If Loan 5 has to remain with T, then
    Sunny is to assist Mr W, so far as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
Ref: DRN11063277Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1106327