K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that FirstRand  Bank Limited refused to let her reject a faulty  car.
background
In December Mrs W bought a second had car which was funded  by a hire purchase  
agreement with FirstRand.  It was some six years old and had done 40,554 miles.  Mrs W 
encountered some  problem with the car. After  a few weeks she needed to replace two tyres, 
but the dealers only paid for one. It also paid for repairs to the head gasket. 
In July the car broke  down  and the car was inspected by a RAC mechanic who noted  the car 
had a number  of fault codes. Mrs W contacted FirstRand and it commissioned an 
independent report. This stated: the engine running  was erratic and numerous  fault codes 
were evident  within  the electronic control  unit memory, although no warning lamps were 
illuminated on the dash display. A warning message did however illuminate on the 
information display  stating engine repair required at this stage as such  we can only 
recommend the vehicle  undergoes  further  investigation under workshop conditions.
It went on to conclude: We do have  to take into consideration that substantial time and 
mileage has elapsed since  the point of finance  inception and on this basis on the balance  of 
probability the conditions without sufficient  documentary  evidence, in our opinion would not 
have been developing at this time and have had sufficient  time and mileage  to progress and 
develop thereafter  the cause of which we are unable to establish at this stage without  further 
investigation under  workshop conditions.
FirstRand rejected Mrs Ws complaint and so she brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mrs W sold the 
car after some 10 months while the matter was being investigated  by our service and asked 
that she be compensated for the problems she had with it.
Our adjudicator said he couldnt consider the issues Mrs W had raised  about  the dealer. He 
went on to explain that if a fault appears  within the first six months  of purchase,  its the 
responsibility of the business to prove the fault wasnt present at the point of sale.  The 
legislation also says after 30 days, the consumer has to give the business one chance to 
repair the faulty vehicle. He noted  that some  of the repair costs  were covered by the dealer 
and by the warranty company. 
He said that various  parts  of a car are subject to wear and tear and will need repairing or 
replacing after a period  of time.  This included the ignition coil and spark  plugs  which had to 
be changed. As far as the rocker gasket and cover  were  concerned  the costs were  covered 
by the dealer. 
While he recognised Mrs Ws frustrations, he said he had to consider the age and mileage of 
the vehicle. Also he had to respect  the independent engineers  report which  concluded that 
the faults werent present  at the point  of sale. He said the RAC report  showed  various  faults 
codes, but it didnt detail the parts that had failed  or needed replacing.
He concluded  that although  there  had been  faults,  without any evidence to confirm  they were 
present at the point of sale - or to have  made  the vehicle  of unsatisfactory  quality, he 
couldnt ask the business to do any more.
Ref: DRN12132512Mrs W didnt agree and said the car had problems within six weeks  and she felt she should 
be compensated for the inconvenience  and lost income due to having to take time off work. 
She added that the car had been sold with illegal tyres which  showed it hadnt  been checked 
properly before she had bought it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mrs W, but I find myself  in agreement  with our adjudicator. It 
seems that several problems arose  shortly  after the car was acquired. One issue was the 
tyres, but I presume Mrs W checked  these  before buying  it and should  have satisfied  herself 
they were in good order. That said, I gather the dealer paid for one of the two tyres which  
needed to be replaced.
The second  issue  was to do with the ignition  coil and spark plugs. I gather the repairs  for 
these were paid for by the dealer. I consider that to be a reasonable response. It was entitled  
to repair  the car or pay for the repairs and as I understand it those were satisfactory. 
The later faults arose after Mrs W had owned  the car for over six months  and I cannot  see 
that they were  connected to the earlier problems. Therefore we have  to establish if these 
were likely to have  been present at the point of sale if we are to conclude that FirstRand  is 
responsible. 
In these circumstances I have to rely on the evidence of the independent report and I would 
only overrule that if I have strong evidence to do so. The independent engineer  has 
concluded that it was unlikely that the faults were present  at the point  of sale. It is a fact of 
life that cars suffer from wear and tear and over a period of time parts  will fail. Their owners 
Ref: DRN12132513will incur  costs and recompense from finance companies is only available if it can be shown 
that the car was faulty at the point of sale. 
I cannot safely conclude  these faults were  present at the point of sale.  I have no evidence  to 
support that view.  Therefore,  based  on the evidence  I cannot say that FirstRand need do 
any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1213251