K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down his claim 
under his pet insurance policy.
My references to Red Sands include its agent.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint and I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
On 25 February 2018 Mr R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands to cover  
his cat. 
Mr R made  a claim in mid-April 2018  because his cat had been diagnosed with diabetes. But 
Red Sands  said that his cat had shown clinical signs of diabetes before the policy had been  
taken out. This meant it was pre-existing and not covered under its policy  terms. It put an 
exclusion on the policy for all claims with respect to diabetes and resulting conditions from 
the policys start date.
Mr R didnt agree and his vet sent an email supporting  his claim, but Red Sands didnt 
change its mind. He came  to us and sent a further letter  from his vet about his cats 
condition. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She concluded that Red Sands had fairly turned 
down the claim. Mr R didnt agree so the complaints come  to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im likely to uphold it. 
The policy terms say theres no cover for pre-existing conditions  or for an illness that starts 
within the first 14 days of the policy. Terms like this arent unusual in pet insurance  policies 
and we dont consider  them unreasonable. The terms are set out clearly  in the policy  
document and in the key facts. 
Red Sands  said that Mr Rs claim is pre-existing because entries in his vets clinical notes 
and on the claim form suggest  that the cat had signs or symptoms of diabetes  for three 
months before Mr Rs vet appointment  on 17 March  2018. These signs  or symptoms were 
PU  polyuria or excessive urinating  and PD  polydipsia  or excessive drinking. 
I can look beyond a strict interpretation  of the policy terms in deciding  what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.  I also need to take into account the 
relevant law. 
I see from the vets notes that Mr Rs daughter took the cat to vet for the 17 March  2018 
appointment for vaccinations, which had been missed  the previous year. The cat was mainly  
an indoor cat but sometimes went out, and she had been on a special diet for a long time 
because shed been overweight in the past.  The vets note says that the owner noticed 
Ref: DRN15484072PU/PD over the past 3 months.  The vet noted  the cat had lost 1.2kg!  from the previous 
visit, and tried to examine  her and take bloods but the cat became aggressive. The vet said 
the cat needed a second vaccination and blood sampling, during a longer consultation and 
with more staff  possibly under sedation.
On the claim form Mr R said the date he noticed  signs or symptoms  of the cats condition  
was 17 March 2018. In response to a similar  question the vets practice said hed noticed  
around three  months  previously. On this basis, Red Sands turned down the claim and put 
the retrospective exclusion on the policy. 
But Mr Rs vet has written two supporting  statements  to Red Sands, and her statements 
mean that Im not currently persuaded that Red Sands reached a fair decision. In her 
May 2018 email  to Red Sands the vet said that:
The cat had been overweight as noted in 2016. The owner had put her on a diet as 
recommended. The owner hasnt  been worried at all and that wasnt  the purpose of 
(the March 2018)  visit  she was booked  for her yearly  vaccination. When the vet 
asked about the cats condition  the owner said she was doing very and they werent  
concerned at all. 
The vet checked the cats weight and then noted  that shed lost 1.2kg. She then 
asked several more  questions and the owners  daughter then admitted that perhaps 
the cat had been drinking  a little more  recently. The owners  didnt think she could 
have been ill and were  reluctant to agree to the blood tests   as they thought it was 
due to the light diet. The vet had to persuade them to perform further investigations.
In summary  the vet said were not quite  sure when the disease started since  she 
hasnt been seen  for a while and has only been  diagnosed  because  I was concerned 
about the weight  loss comparing with the one noted back in 2016.  The vet asked 
Red Sands to reconsider the claim.  
In her September 2018 statement the vet said that:
She accepted there may have been  some ambiguity regarding the vet notes. Shed 
emailed Red Sands in May 2018  to clarify  that in her professional capacity she could 
not ascertain when the cat became diabetic and so no conclusion could be made 
about whether this was a pre-existing condition. 
The clinical note dated 17 March 2018  had mistakenly said that the owner had 
noticed PU/PD  over the past 3 months.  The vet had attempted to clarify the 
situation in her May 2018  email. In fact, at the vaccination appointment, the owners 
had said they had only noticed this issue in the days before the appointment.
Following further tests  and for about  six weeks (before 14 September 2018) the vet 
had concluded  that the cat is in remission and is not considered to be diabetic, and 
therefore doesnt have  to be given  insulin. 
So the vet is not saying that the cat had a pre-existing condition and has attempted  to 
clarify any ambiguities since then. The vet hopes  that the owner can now claim the 
costs incurred, which are not an ongoing issue. 
Red Sands  doesnt  accept the vets statements make a difference to its decision because, in 
summary:
They have  to take the vets original  17 March 2018 note as being true and accurate. 
The note shows  the cat had PU and PD for three months before March 2018. This 
means its before the inception date of the policy (February 2018) and is pre-existing 
Ref: DRN15484073under the policy  terms. So the onset date was correctly identified  as 17 December 
2017. 
Vets are aware  of the importance of providing accurate and factual records  in line 
with their professional bodys  guidelines. Insurance companies have to take these 
notes as being a true representation  of what was seen or heard at the time of the 
consultation. 
Red Sands internet  research  shows that PU and PD are two of the main symptoms  
of diabetes. The three month history of PU and PD, combined with weight loss, was 
the reason for the vet to test the cat. So it is satisfied  that the clinical  signs  and 
symptoms were noted before the policys start date.  
When he applied  for the policy online it asked Mr R to read the 
presumptions/assumptions including that hed read and understood  the policys terms 
and conditions. One of these is that the pre-existing  conditions arent covered. It 
correctly applied the exclusion  in line with the policy terms and its underwriting 
criteria. 
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence. Having done so I think  the vet has explained  the 
context of the note that she made  on 17 March  2018  and given a background to her 
discussion with Mr Rs family  member. 
The important point  is that (via his family  member) Mr R hadnt any concerns about  his cat 
and had booked  her in for an overdue vaccination.  The vet says that Mr R thought  the cat 
was doing very well, having  been  on a special light diet. The vet doesnt  say that Mr R had 
noticed the cat had lost weight. It was the vet who said she noted the cats weight loss, and 
that the amount of weight  loss was 1.2kg from the cats previous weight. 
The vet has explained  that she asked direct  questions about the cats health.  In response to 
the questioning Mr R (via his family  member) said the cat had perhaps been drinking a little 
more. But theyd not thought she was ill and in fact didnt  want her to be tested as they 
werent concerned  about her at all. And the vet has said that it was only in the days  before 
the appointment that increased  drinking and urinated had been noticed  not months. 
I think this is very different from an owner  whos taken their cat to the vet with a specific  
concern, believing the cat might be ill because of a change in their normal health  or 
behaviour. In this case, the vet had provided  very clear evidence that the owner  wasnt 
concerned about  the cat. They hadnt volunteered  information about drinking more,  but 
rather this information  was given in response to direct questioning by the vet.
Also, the vet says that she cant be sure that the cat was showing symptoms of a pre-
existing illness. Ive noted Red Sands internet research  of the symptoms of diabetes. But 
the vet who has seen and treated the cat has said she cant be sure the cat did have  pre-
existing diabetes  and in any event it is now in remission.  
So having  considered all the evidence  I dont think its fair for Red Sands to have turned 
down Mr Rs claim.
Red Sands  says it can apply an exclusion for diabetes  from the policys start date because 
of the signs and symptoms noted before the policy start date. Ive already said why I dont 
think its fair to treat the diabetes  as a pre-existing condition. I also dont think  Red Sands 
has fairly applied  the exclusion. 
Ref: DRN15484074The law that sets out the remedies available to insurers where a policyholder  misrepresents 
information is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (or 
CIDRA). CIDRA sets a duty on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation in response to an insurers clear questions.
But heres Ive not seen  any evidence  that Red Sands asked Mr R a clear  question before he 
took out the policy. Its referred to a list of presumptions and assumptions that he had to 
agree to. But this isnt enough to show that it asked a clear  question.  Also, its not clear that 
Mr R could have told Red Sands about the signs and symptoms of diabetes,  because  Ive 
provisionally found that he wasnt aware of them or the diagnosis until after the policy 
started. 
So I intend to require Red Sands to remove the retrospective policy  exclusion that it applied 
from the policys start date.
responses
Mr R responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision.
Red Sands  responded to say it had received  my provisional decision,  but it hasnt sent any 
further comments by the response date of 6 November 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R accepts my provisional decision and Red Sands hasnt sent any further comments. So 
I see no reason to depart from the findings  I reached  in my provisional decision for the 
reasons set out in that decision. I confirm those findings here and uphold this complaint.  
I require Red Sands to settle the complaint as set out below. 
Ref: DRN15484075my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Pay Mr Rs claim for his cats diabetes, in line with the policy  limit and any applicable 
excess. If Mr R shows that he has paid the vets bill it must add simple interest* at the 
rate of 8% per year to the claim payment from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement; and 
Remove the exclusion it applied to the policy for all claims with respect to diabetes  
and resulting conditions with effect  from 25 February  2018. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1548407