K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that the advice he was given by The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. was not 
suitable. In particular, Mr E say the advice to transfer deferred  benefits from an occupational  
pension scheme  to a Section 32 buy-out plan has left him worse  off.
background
In July 1994 Mr E met a Co-operative  Bank adviser. The fact find completed at the time set 
out that Mr E wanted to review  his pension arrangements.  
It appears Mr E wanted advice on what to do with deferred benefits from an occupational  
pension scheme. In particular, whether he should leave the deferred benefits where they 
were, transfer them to his new employers scheme,  or transfer  them to a personal pension or 
Section 32 buy-out plan.
At the time the advice  was given Mr E was 32 years old and single. His job was being 
transferred to a new company. Mr E had accrued over nine years  service in his employers 
pension scheme. The deferred benefits had a transfer value of around  £20,000.
As part of the transfer Mr E could transfer his deferred pension benefits to his new 
employers pension scheme. He was offered a service  credit of eight years and ten months.
The adviser noted that Mr E had said he wasnt sure if he would remain working  for his new 
employer. The adviser also noted Mr E might want to take early retirement.
In the suitability letter, sent to Mr E at the time, the adviser considered each option. Having 
done so, and taking into account that Mr E might want  to retire early,  the adviser 
recommended that Mr E should transfer his deferred benefits to a Section 32 buy-out plan.
In particular, the adviser noted that if Mr E wanted to take his pension  benefits early his 
current employer would  impose a penalty  of 6% per year. And his former employer would 
impose a penalty  of 4% per year.
The adviser also carried out a transfer analysis to look at the options open  to Mr E. Based on 
the analysis done, the report said:
As you can see, taking  the transfer  value  and investing it in a recognised transfer  plan is 
likely to improve your benefits,  and we would recommend that you seriously consider making 
this transfer.
We have also enclosed  illustrations of the kind of benefits available from such a transfer.
The report  set out that the investment return Mr Es fund needed to grow by year on year,  to 
match the benefits he would have received from his occupational  scheme, was 9.5%.  Mr Es 
plan was invested in with profit and managed  funds.
In 2016 Mr E complained to The Co-operative about  the advice he had been given to 
transfer his deferred pension benefits. Mr E said his new financial adviser had told him he 
would have been significantly better  off if he had transferred his deferred benefits  to his new 
employer's pension scheme in 1994, rather than to a Section 32 buy-out plan. Mr E also said 
he wasnt given the option to leave  his deferred benefits in his former employers scheme.
Ref: DRN15575502The Co-operative didnt uphold  Mr Es complaint. In summary it said that it felt the 
investment return needed  to match  the benefits  Mr E was giving up were realistic,  based on 
Mr Es circumstances and the financial conditions at the time of the transfer. It also said that 
given Mr Es uncertainty about his future employment plans, transferring his benefits into the 
Section 32 buy-out plan was suitable advice.
It noted Mr Es concern  that his pension transfer  hadnt been reviewed as part of an industry  
wide review. It explained  this was because the transfer was made  after the end date of the 
review. But it said if Mr Es plan had been reviewed under the guidelines, it would have been 
deemed suitable based on the critical yield of 9.5% compared to review  guidelines  of 10.8%.
Mr E didnt accept The Co-operatives  response and brought his complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator said she felt Mr Es complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think  
the advice Mr E had received was suitable. She said she felt that the purpose of giving up 
the guaranteed final salary benefits was to achieve a higher pension than that available  from 
Mr Es occupational pension scheme on retirement.
In order to make the transfer worthwhile, she said the growth  rate needed to be at least 1% 
higher than the investment return (or critical yield)  identified, to take account of the risks 
associated with the transfer.  As such she felt Mr Es Section 32 plan actually needed to 
achieve a growth  rate of around 10.5% each year. She said she felt that the high risk nature 
of the transfer  had not been  explained  to Mr E.
She said that if the risks involved in transferring the deferred benefits had been explained to 
Mr E she didnt  think he would not have gone ahead with the transfer.  In order to resolve  this 
matter she said The Co-operative should,  as far as possible, put Mr E back in the position he 
would have been in, but for the unsuitable advice.
The Co-operative did not accept our adjudicators view. It said that although  the transfer was 
outside of the Pension Review dates, it felt it was reasonable  to assess  the suitability of the 
advice in-line  with the Pension Switching Guidance. This guidance uses a table  of maximum 
growth rates.
Based on a Section 32 plan, sold in 1994,  with 23 years to a retirement  age of 55 it said the 
guidance gives a viable  growth  rate of 10.8%.  So the 9.5%  investment return Mr Es plan 
needed to achieve was 1.3% less that the growth rate set out in the review guidance from 
the industry regulator. In view of this it said it didnt accept our adjudicators  view that, the 
level of growth required  to match the benefits  Mr E was giving up made the transfer  too high 
risk.
It said that it felt Mr E had been made aware of the risks associated with the transfer. In 
particular it noted  that the suitability letter set out that future growth  rates could not be 
guaranteed and that past performance should not be used as a guide to the future. It also 
said it was satisfied that the funds Mr Es plan had been invested in were suitable for his 
stated neutral attitude to risk.
Our adjudicator reviewed  The Co-operatives comments but was not minded to change  her 
view.
The Co-operative remained unhappy with the adjudicators view. It re-iterated its position 
and asked for the complaint to be determined by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN15575503I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 November 2018. In it I set out my 
provisional view that I didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why.
I noted Mr E had said his new financial adviser had told him he would be significantly better  
off now if he had transferred his deferred benefits to his new employer in 1994.
I agreed that it is always disappointing when  an investment does not perform as well as 
hoped. But this, in itself,  does not necessarily mean that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. 
In order to uphold  Mr Es complaint I explained  that I needed to be satisfied that the advice 
to transfer his deferred benefits to the Section 32 buy-out plan was unsuitable for his 
personal and financial  circumstances at that time.
I said that based on the information I have been provided with I didnt think the advice to 
transfer to the Section 32 plan was unsuitable.
Mr E raised a number  of points in the complaint he brought to this service. I addressed what  
I considered to be the key issues.
Mr E says he was not given the option  to leave  his deferred  benefits  in his former 
employers scheme
The information I was provided with showed that the adviser  set out the advantages and 
disadvantages of:
- leaving  Mr Es deferred benefits in his former employers scheme;
- transferring  his deferred benefits to his new employers scheme; or
- transferring  the benefits  to a personal pension or a Section 32 buy-out plan.
In particular it showed that the adviser  considered  which option was likely  to provide the best 
outcome if Mr E retired  early.
I noted Mr E has said he was not given the option  to leave his deferred benefits  in his former  
employers scheme. But, the records I was provided with showed  the adviser did consider 
this.
The suitability letter sent to Mr E in August 1994  set out:
The next decision to make is whether to leave your preserved pension benefits  with the 
[former employers] scheme or transfer  them  to an individual  arrangement.
The adviser referred to the transfer value  assessment that had been  carried  out. He 
explained that this analysis looked at the growth Mr Es pension pot would need to achieve  
each year to match the benefits he would be giving up in his occupational scheme.
As an appendix to this report, a Transfer Value Benefits comparison has been prepared by 
ourselves using our industry recognised Transfer Analysis system. This comparison 
assumes that the transfer value of £20,152.07 is invested into an individual transfer policy.  It 
then calculates  the average annual investment return that would need to be achieved 
whereby at retirement, the transfer  policy would pay benefits exactly the same as those 
available from the [name  of employer] Scheme. For comparison purposes,  the non 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  element of your pension benefit with the [name of 
employer] scheme has been  revalued  at 5% per annum from your date of leaving to the 
Ref: DRN15575504[name of employers] normal retirement age of 60. The actual scheme  rules  of the [name  of 
employer] state  that your pension will be revalued  each  year by 5% or the rise in the Retail  
Prices Index (RPI) whichever is the lower. At the time of writing  this report RPI is currently  
running at about  2.6% per annum. Therefore, the analysis  shows the maximum pension you 
can expect to receive from the [name  of employers] scheme, however if RPI remains  lower 
than 5% to your retirement  date you will receive  a lower pension  than that indicated  in the 
analysis.
Mr E also said that he wasnt aware  that indexing would have applied  to his deferred  benefits 
if he had left them in his former employers scheme. I appreciated that, given  the passage  of 
time, Mr E might not recall this. But as the extract above shows,  I was satisfied that the 
adviser did explain this at the time.
Mr E says the adviser did not tell him that he would be significantly  worse  off 
financially if he went ahead with the transfer
Mr E has said that he would not have gone ahead with the transfer if he had  been made 
aware I'd be much worse off for it. And he says his adviser  MUST  have been fully aware of 
this.
I havent seen  anything that shows The Co-operative gave Mr E any guarantee that he 
would definitely  be better off if he transferred  his deferred benefits to the Section 32 buy-out 
plan. I accepted that Mr E went ahead with the transfer with the intention that it would leave 
him better off. But l explained that I must take into account that the suitability letter sent to Mr 
E at the time set out:
The comparison indicates  that an average  annual yield of 9.5%  is required in order to exactly 
match the preserved benefits. Historically,  the yields available  utilising the pensions with 
profit funds of Life Offices  have exceeded  9.5% per annum.  Past performance however is 
not necessarily a guide to the future as future growth rates  are not guaranteed,  they depend 
upon profits  yet to be earned. Therefore, in return for exposing the transfer value  to the 
investment markets and by careful  selection  of both Life Office  and underlying  fund an 
improvement of the eventual pension could be achieved. It is also worth  noting that there  are 
several other  factors to take into consideration as well as the growth rate required,  such as 
early retirement penalties, widow's death  before retirement pension  benefits and annuity 
rates (to convert the investment  to pension).
In his original complaint  to this service Mr E said; I don't recall the adviser ever explicitly 
advising me to take this option [to transfer pension benefits to the section 32 plan] or 
insinuating that it was the better option.  Rather,  my case is that at no stage did he so much  
as intimate that I'd be worse off for it, and that I'd be far better  off transferring into [name of 
new employers] scheme.
I am sympathetic to Mr Es position.  With the benefit  of hindsight it is not in dispute that he 
would have been better off if he had either left his deferred benefits with his former 
employer, or transferred  them  to his new employers final salary  scheme.  But as I explained 
above I can only uphold  Mr Es complaint if I think the advice he received was unsuitable,  
based on the circumstances at the time  and the foreseeable future.
In 1994, when Mr E was advised to transfer his deferred benefits the adviser  explained that 
he felt the level of investment growth  needed to match the benefits he was giving up in the 
occupational scheme was achievable. To provide  some context to this, the Bank of England 
Ref: DRN15575505base rate was over 6% in 1994 and had previously been over 10% as recently as 1991.  At 
the time the advice was given I dont  think it is reasonable to say the adviser  should  have 
foreseen that interest rates would fall so significantly.
As Mr E may know, the yield on gilts and corporate bonds directly  impacts annuity rates. As 
UK gilt yields  are at historically very low levels  and far lower than they were in 1994   this 
means the annuity Mr Es pension pot can purchase  is much  lower than could have 
reasonably been foreseen in 1994.
I can see that in February 2017 the product provider valued Mr Es fund, including  final 
bonus at £85,682.62.  It also explained  that the current cost of providing the GMP was 
£244,676.65. In view of the shortfall it explained that Mr E would  not be able to take his 
benefits early. However under the terms of the Section 32 plan the provider is required to 
provide Mr E with at least  the value of his GMP payable from age 60. As this is the case the 
plan will pay the GMP of £5.840.64 each year once Mr E reaches 60 years.
I also noted that the standard  investment  growth  rates that could be used in illustrations for 
pension products (set down by the industry  regulator)  at the time Mr E was advised to 
transfer his benefits were  6%, 9% and 12%. So the investment return Mr Es pension pot 
needed to achieve was 0.5% above the mid-rate projection rate. Given  that it was a 
minimum of 23 years  to Mr Es retirement I dont think  this was excessive.
And I said I was mindful that, even if the fund had grown in line with the growth rates  
projected at the time, the fall in annuity  rates  would  still have a significant impact  on the 
annuity Mr E would be likely to receive.
Mr E says that he feels The Co-operative should have contacted him about  the 
transfer as it was made shortly after the Pension Review end date
Mr E said he felt his pension transfer  should have been reviewed by The Co-operative as 
part of the Pension Review.  As the transfer took place after the review period I didnt think it 
was reasonable  to say that his transfer should have been reviewed as part of the Pension 
Review. I appreciate Mr E feels that ethically The Co-operative should have reviewed his 
transfer but there was no requirement  on it to do so.
And, as The Co-operative explained, if it had applied the Pension Switching Guidance  to Mr 
Es transfer,  the growth  rate his pension  pot needed to achieve was lower  that the maximum 
growth rate set out in the guidance.
commission
Mr E says the adviser  told him he was working on a non-commission basis.  But Mr E said 
he had recently become  aware that 4% commission had been  paid on the transfer value.
The Co-operative explained that the commission  on the sale was used to enhance the policy  
and the 4% initial commission was applied to the plan at the outset. As this is the case  I cant  
reasonably find that the adviser  misled  Mr E when he said he would not be taking 
commission on the transfer.
In summary,  I said I felt that the adviser  did take reasonable steps to consider whether Mr E 
was likely to be better  off if he left his deferred benefits where they were, transferred them to 
his new employers scheme or transferred  them to a personal arrangement.
Ref: DRN15575506The transfer value  assessment compared  the options available to Mr E and the suitability 
letter discussed each  option.
Unfortunately, it appears that the investment returns have been lower than the assumptions 
made when  the advice  was given. This, coupled with much  lower annuity rates, means that 
the Section 32 plan hasn't performed as hoped.  But, having carefully considered this matter I 
said I didnt think the adviser could reasonably have foreseen this at the time the advice  was 
given.
The adviser took account of the penalties that would have applied  if Mr E had retired early 
from the occupational schemes.  He also took account of the level of growth Mr Es pension 
pot would  need to achieve, or better, when he made his recommendation.
Based on what I had seen  I said I didnt  think  the advice Mr E received was unsuitable  and I 
did not intend to uphold  Mr Es complaint. But I said I would consider any further  comments  
or information that Mr E or The Co-operative might wish to make before I finally determined 
this complaint.
The Co-operative said it accepted my provisional decision and it did not have anything  
further to add to the points it had already raised.
Mr E did not accept my provisional decision.  He provided a detailed  response setting out his 
concerns.
In summary  the key issues Mr E raised  are:
-he feels he was not made aware that by transferring out I'd be giving up firm 
guarantees;
-he had a number  of meetings with his adviser  in 1994, but he says the adviser  only 
discussed transferring  to a Section 32 plan or a personal pension;  and
-The suitability report was sent about  three weeks  after the fact find had been 
completed. Mr E says he feels this shows the adviser had already decided to 
transfer me out (subject  to the critical yield being within the maximum of course)  
before doing any formal analysis or projections.  Mr E says he has no recollection  of 
seeing the suitability report,  but accepts that this doesnt mean  he didnt receive  it.
-Mr E said his main arguments  for a mis-selling claim are: whether his 
recommendation was truly appropriate  for someone of "neutral" risk; and
- the benefits that were being given  up and what I was risking had not been properly 
explained to me in a manner that I could very easily comprehend and assimilate, in 
order for me to make an evaluated decision.
Mr E also said he felt I had not given  sufficient consideration to the points he raised  in a 
letter to this service dated  20 February 2017.  He said this letter  retracted some of the claims 
& comments he had made  in his earlier letter to this service,  dated November 2016.
Mr E said he did not feel I had addressed his concerns relating to the validity  of the stated 
reasons for his recommendation  in that at the very least they should  not have been the 
determining factors (e.g. early-retirement  just because I'd answered "possibly" to his retire  
early question, the likelihood not to remain  with my new employer for too long ... with 
insufficient weight  placed on preserving guarantees).
Ref: DRN15575507He also said he felt he was  effectively put in a no-win position  virtually from 
commencement. And that, it should have been realised and understood that the transfer 
was unlikely to constitute a better strategy, based on the circumstances at the time and the 
foreseeable future.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Es complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed all the information this service  has been provided  with in connection with 
Mr Es complaint. I would like to apologise if Mr E feels I overlooked points he raised in his 
letter dated  20 February 2017  when  drafting  my provisional decision.
I have addressed what I consider to be the key points Mr E raised  in his response to my 
provisional decision below. I would also like to assure Mr E that I have considered all the 
points he has raised,  in his correspondence  with this service,  in reaching my final decision.
Mr E says he was not aware that by transferring out I'd be giving up firm guarantees
I have very carefully considered this point as I think it is the crux of Mr Es complaint. Mr E 
says he feels the adviser  did not fully explain the risks and disadvantages of transferring 
benefits out of his occupational scheme.  He also says he does not feel the suitability report 
properly explained  the risks involved.
In Mr Es letter dated 20 February 2017  he said:
I believe that he should have properly detailed and explained the risks, the guarantees and 
the scale of the potential  losses  in a way that even a layman could properly understand and 
evaluate, making  clear  that his recommendation could only be to transfer out if the client  had 
a massive appetite  for risk and could afford  to lose that amount from their retirement income  
(which in my case I could not).
The transfer value  assessment clearly  set out that:
To replace the retirement benefits provided by your former scheme, the following investment 
return would  be required:
It then set out that a 9.5% year on year growth  would  match the benefits Mr E would have  
received from his occupational scheme.
I appreciate that Mr E feels the adviser didnt adequately explain the scale of the potential 
losses in a way that even  a layman  could  properly understand. But the transfer value 
assessment set out that if Mr Es pension pot grew  at 6% each year,  only 28% of the 
benefits from his occupational  scheme  would be matched. The growth  rates used in the 
assessment were set by the industry  regulator at the time. I think  the transfer value 
assessment did make  it sufficiently clear  that if the 9.5% growth rate wasnt  achieved Mr E 
could receive much  less than he would if he left his pension benefits  in his former employers 
scheme.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think the suitability report did explain that the 
projected benefits were  not guaranteed.
Ref: DRN15575508Mr E says he has no recollection of discussing the risks involved in transferring his benefits 
out of his occupational  scheme with his adviser. Given that it is over 20 years since Mr E met 
the adviser to discuss his deferred pension benefits,  I wouldnt expect Mr E to recall the 
detail of what was discussed. And it is not possible to say with any certainty what was 
discussed at the meetings Mr E had with his adviser  in 1994.
One of the reasons the industry regulator  requires advisers to issue a written  record  of the 
advice given  and explain why the adviser thinks the recommendation is suitable  is so 
that the customer will have a written record of the advice given.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I think the suitability report  did adequately explain the 
risks involved. Mr E says the adviser  didnt so much as intimate  that I'd be worse  off for it, 
and that I'd be far better off transferring into xxx's scheme. 
I dont agree with Mr Es position. The suitability report  did set out there risks involved.
The comparison indicates  that an average  annual yield of 9.5%  is required in order to exactly 
match the preserved benefits. Historically,  the yields available  utilising the pensions with 
profit funds of Life Offices  have exceeded  9.5% per annum.  Past performance however is 
not necessarily a guide to the future as future growth rates  are not guaranteed,  they depend 
upon profits  yet to be earned. Therefore, in return for exposing the transfer value to the 
investment markets and by careful selection of both Life Office and underlying fund an 
improvement of the eventual pension could be achieved. It is also worth noting that 
there are several other factors to take into consideration  as well as the growth rate required,  
such as early retirement penalties, widow's death  before  retirement pension  benefits and 
annuity rates  (to convert the investment to pension).
(bold and underline is my emphasis)
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think it is reasonable to say that in 1994 the 
adviser should have foreseen  that interest rates  would fall so significantly. Interest rates and 
gilt yields  are currently at historically low levels. This means  that the annuity Mr Es pension 
pot can purchase is much lower  than could have reasonably  been  foreseen  in 1994. I note 
that the projections provided to Mr E with the suitability report  were based on an annuity  
interest rate of 7.9%.
The projection rates used  in the transfer analysis carried  out for Mr E were  set by the 
industry regulator and were intended to reflect the rates of return that could reasonably  be 
achieved. With hindsight  these rates  seem very high, but I cant reasonably  say that The Co-
operative could  have known this at the time. And in any case it was required by its regulator  
to use the projection  rates  of 6%, 9% and 12 % in illustrations it provided  to customers.
adviser only discussed  transferring to a S32 or a personal pension; 
Mr E says he has no recollection of his adviser  discussing whether  he might be better 
leaving his deferred  pension benefits  in his occupational scheme. As I explained above, it is 
not possible to say with any certainty what was discussed at the meetings Mr E had with his 
adviser in 1994.  But I am satisfied that all the options open to Mr E were  set out in the 
suitability report.  It discussed the advantages  and disadvantages of:
- leaving  Mr Es deferred benefits in his former employers scheme;
- transferring  his deferred benefits to his new employers scheme; or
- transferring  the benefits  to a personal pension or a Section 32 buy-out plan.
Ref: DRN15575509early retirement and attitude to risk
Mr E said in his letter  dated 20 February 2017;
I was 32 at the time in an era where pensions were more buoyant. Who of that age wouldn't 
fancy the possibility of retiring  early  if financially viable?!? I've no idea whether I explicitly 
said "55" as it is blank  on his Fact Find, but if I did retire then, whats to say that I would have 
accessed my 23-year-frozen [occupational]  pension rather  than waiting another 5 years  to 
avoid penalties?  It wasn't as if I was imminently approaching this age and I only said 
"possibly", and whilst I can understand it being  a consideration,  early retirement should not 
have been a determining factor that seemingly outweighed the guarantees I would now lose.
I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight Mr E feels he didnt sufficiently consider 
whether retiring early was something  he wanted  the adviser to take into account.  But if, 
having reflected  on this point, Mr E decided early  retirement wasnt something he wanted the 
adviser to take account of, it is not clear to me why he didnt tell the adviser at the time. In 
note  said Mr E he had multiple  1:1 sessions with his adviser  during  which  he assessed my 
preference and my personal  circumstance  in order to determine  the best course of action 
I also note that the transfer value assessment was carried out to age 60 in order to allow a 
direct comparison  with the projected  benefits from Mr Es occupational scheme.
With regard to Mr Es attitude  to risk, I note that the transfer value  assessment  referred  to his 
neutral attitude to risk. I agree that it would have been helpful if the adviser had covered 
Mr Es attitude to investment risk in more detail in the suitability report. But I remain  of the 
view that, given the length of time to Mr Es expected retirement and that the growth the fund 
needed to achieve was only slightly higher than the mid projection rate set by the industry 
regulator, I dont  think the advice given  was unsuitable for Mr Es stated attitude to risk.
The suitability  report was sent some time after the fact find had been completed .
Mr E says that his adviser only did his report/analysis retrospectively (dated 17/08/1994)  
some 3 weeks later... further illustrating that he'd already decided  to transfer me out (subject  
to the critical yield being within the maximum of course) before doing any formal analysis or 
projections.
The critical yield calculation that was sent with the suitability report  is dated 6 July 1994 
(although the death benefit analysis and comparison between a personal  pension and 
Section 32 plan are dated 17 August 1994). In view of this I cant  reasonably agree with 
Mr Es position that he was advised to go ahead with the transfer to the Section 32 plan 
before any formal analysis or projections  had been  carried out.
It is not in dispute  that Mr E signed the fact find and the Section 32 application on the same 
day, 29 July 1994. But I must take into account that Mr E has said he met his adviser  several 
times before he went ahead with the application.  
I agree  that it would have been helpful if the adviser  had prepared  the suitability report 
before Mr E went ahead  with the application.  But there was no requirement on The Co-
operative to do so. As this is the case  I cant  reasonably say that the adviser acted 
incorrectly by providing Mr E with the application form before a suitability report  had been 
issued.
Ref: DRN155755010Mr E appears to accept  that he did receive  the report, but he does not recall reviewing it. It is 
very unfortunate if Mr E did not review the report at the time, but again I cant  reasonably  
hold The Co-operative responsible for this.
In summary,  having considered all that has been said and provided  I dont think The 
Co-operative has acted  incorrectly  in this matter. I am sympathetic to Mr Es position, but I 
havent seen anything that suggests  the adviser could reasonably have known that Mr E 
would definitely  be better of leaving  his deferred  benefits in his former  employers scheme.  
I dont think that the adviser gave unsuitable advice, based on information that was available  
to him at the time. As this is the case I cannot uphold Mr Es complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1557550