K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D took out the mortgage in 2000  but did not buy PPI at that time. He bought the PPI in 
January 2005  at the same time as taking  out a further advance on the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS has very little paperwork available from the PPI sale (although  it does have some  
documentation pertaining to the original mortgage and further advance).  This isnt surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place. But it does make the case  more difficult  to decide.  
Therefore in reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, and 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened. Ive also thought  about how long ago the 
sale took place  and how this may have affected Mr Ds memory of events.
Mr Ds original mortgage was already running,  so he cant have thought  that the PPI was a 
condition of the mortgage. Although we dont have the actual paperwork for this sale,  we 
have seen copies  of the sort of forms that BoS were  using at the time. Based on what we 
know of the sale of mortgage PPI, I consider it is more  likely than not that there would have 
been a discussion  about the policy as part of the wider  conversation  about Mr Ds additional 
borrowing requirements and existing mortgage.  Overall I think  its more  likely that not that 
the policy was presented  as optional. 
Mr D has said that he didnt know the PPI had been  added to the mortgage account   
meaning that BoS added  the policy without his knowledge or consent.
Although Mr D has said he had no idea he had PPI, Ive seen a copy  of a welcome  letter and 
policy schedule that BoS sent him on 3 February 2005. This provides a summary of the 
cover and the cost.  It also included  a cancellation  form to use if the policy was no longer 
required. So Im satisfied that, by this point, Mr D would have known about the PPI. And if he 
no longer wanted  it he could  have  cancelled it.
As Ive said,  the sale was a long time ago, so it also wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ds 
recollection of events has faded. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr D has said, but on 
balance I think that he probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even 
if he no longer remembers doing so.
BoS advised Mr D to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending  the policy,  it needed to 
ensure that it met Mr Ds needs. And from what I know  of his circumstances at the time, I 
consider that the policy was suitable.
Ref: DRN14211062Mr D would have received six months full pay, followed  by six months  half pay, from his 
employer as sick pay. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr D would have received full pay for.
Mr D says he had savings  of £15,000  from the sale of a property in 2004. But, if Im not 
mistaken, the property  in the town hes mentioned is the same one that he bought with this 
mortgage in 2000. And the paperwork for the further advance in 2005 shows him still being 
at the same  address (with the mortgage  being redeemed in 2007). Even if I am mistaken,  it 
doesnt make a difference to my decision. Thats because the policy  would have allowed him 
to retain  his savings  or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have  been  a difficult 
time. So I think that Mr D had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it at what 
would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that more 
information would have caused  him to change his mind. So hes no worse off as a result of 
anything BoS may have  done wrong, so theres  nothing that BoS needs to do to put things 
right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1421106