K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  is requesting  payment for loans  that she 
is not required to make and cannot  afford  to repay.
background
Mrs A entered into two student loan agreements  one in 1998 and one in 1999.  Under  the 
terms of the loans she is not required  to make repayments in certain  circumstances.
Mrs A says she sent her deferment form signed  and dated 10 January 2018. She received a 
letter from Erudio dated 24 March to say it had received her application  for deferment but 
information was missing. She says she called to discuss this. She says she doesnt  have  
proof of postage  and although  she recalls  speaking to Erudio she doesnt  have a record of 
these calls. She then received a letter dated 23 August 2018 saying her deferment had been  
rejected.
Mrs A says that she provided  the information  for her deferment that had been provided  and 
accepted previously. She says she isnt required to make payments because  she doesnt  
work and hasnt done so since 2012  when she lost her job due to ill health.  She is in receipt  
of industrial related  injury  benefit. Mrs A says she was advised that if she provided  proof  her 
disability meant she was unable to work then her debt would  be cleared. She says this has 
been provided.
Mrs A says she is being asked to pay an amount  to Erudio  that she shouldnt have to pay 
and cant afford to pay and that the issues over the past year or so have  affected  her health.
Erudio processed  Mrs As deferment application on 22 March 2018  and says this was found 
to be incomplete as Mrs As income was below national living  standards.  It says no mention 
of third party support  was included in this application. It sent her a letter asking for further  
information and on a call dated 29 March, Mrs A was told it would look for information from 
her husband  that he paid the bills and so on. It says Mrs A said she hadnt  been asked for 
this before but would  send in the details. It says Mrs A provided a copy  of an email dated  
July 2018 in which she said she had resent the information but that this didnt  include a third 
party support letter.
Erudio says the information  it needs  is included in its guide  and because  it didnt receive  the 
requested information  Mrs As application  was incomplete. It says when Mrs A made it 
aware of her health issues her record was updated and interest stopped  being  applied. It 
also removed Mrs As phone number from her account as she had explained the calls made  
her anxious.  It says a hold was placed on Mrs As account which showed it was acting  
positively and sympathetically towards  her.
It says the account  was terminated correctly and because  of the default the full balance  is 
now due. It says it is unable to reinstate the account  but could look to work with Mrs A to set 
up a suitable repayment plan.
Our adjudicator thought the fair resolution  was for Mrs As deferral to be accepted  and 
backdated to 2018.
Ref: DRN12036242Erudio didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It said that it was accepted  it hadnt done  
anything wrong. It also noted that further  evidence had been requested  on Mrs As previous 
two deferment  applications,  and that the 2017 deferment was processed in error.
In regard to the write-off  of the debt,  it says that it would need to see evidence dated within 
the past 12 months from a medical professional confirming Mrs A was unable  to work in the 
future. It says if this is provided it will consider a write-off.
my provisional findings.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs A had previously deferred her repayments  on her two loans and intended to do 
so again at the start of 2018;
Mrs A completed the deferment form and it was processed  in March 2018;
Mrs As form clearly  showed her income  was below the threshold  amount for 
payment deferral;
the information provided in her 2018 application was similar to that provided  in her 
2016 and 2017  applications;
although further information was requested  in regard to Mrs As 2016 and 2017  
applications as these applications were  accepted in 2016 and 2017,  with the same 
level of information  provided as in 2018,  I understood why Mrs A felt further evidence 
wasnt required;
I couldnt say that Erudio  was wrong  to request  further as its up to it to set its own 
criteria in that respect;
I noted in the final response letter that Erudio said it had been provided with the 
information it needed to allow deferment after the default  had been processed;  
Mrs A had provided medical  evidence to show she has a long term disability, and 
while I accepted  that this may not be sufficient to show she would never be able to 
work in the future, it did support her case.
Overall, I appreciated that Erudio did keep Mrs A informed on the situation  on her account  
and that it had asked for further  information.  But as it was clear Mrs A was not earning the 
threshold amount,  and she had provided information about this similar to that which  was 
accepted in previous years, I thought  the fairest outcome to this complaint would be for the 
account to be reinstated  and the deferment  applied as if it had been actioned  in early  2018. I 
also thought that Mrs As credit file should  be updated to reflect this.
Erudio had said that it wasnt possible to reinstate the account and apply a deferment due to 
the actions that had already been  taken. Therefore, if this was the case, I thought  the only 
fair solution would  be for the debt to be written-off  in full and Mrs As account closed.
Erudio didnt accept  my provisional  decision. It said that Mrs A hadnt sent the correct 
information and that it had been explained that the information in the final response letter 
Ref: DRN12036243was incorrect. It said it hadnt  received any medical evidence from Mrs A and that if this was 
received it would review  it against  its criteria. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My role is to consider each complaint on an individual basis. I take relevant regulations and 
guidelines into account but my decision is based  on what I consider  fair and reasonable in 
given the unique circumstances of the complaint.
I note Erudios comments about it asking for information that wasnt provided. I also note that 
while in its final response letter  it said all information had been provided,  it later said this 
wasnt the case. In regard  to the medical evidence, evidence of Mrs As industrial injuries 
disability benefit  has been provided saying that payment will be made for life and she 
discussed her condition on a telephone call with Erudio, although I understand that this may 
not be sufficient  for the account  to be written off. I also note the stress this issue has been 
causing Mrs A.
However, I think the main  issue in this case is whether or not Mrs A was entitled  to defer her 
payments in 2018. I understand  further  information  can be requested  and believe that had 
the third party  letter  been sent then the deferment would have taken place. I also note that 
on the call with Erudio  she confirmed her husband paid the bills. Mrs A had provided 
information showing she wasnt  earning  the threshold amount and on these grounds she 
was entitled to defer the payments. Also, while I note comments about previous deferrals, 
these had occurred  with the similar  evidence being  provided.
Therefore, given the above, I think the fairest outcome for this complaint is for the deferral to 
be backdated to 2018 to ensure no liability arises.  In the event this cant happen,  I think that 
the loans should be written off and Mrs As account closed. I appreciate Erudios  comments  
regarding my decision but given the circumstances, I think  this is a fair resolution.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To resolve  matters, Erudio Student Loans Limited  should reinstate Mrs As account with a 
payment deferral backdated to the required date in 2018 to ensure no liability  arises. It 
should also amend Mrs As credit file to reflect  this.
If it isnt possible to reinstate Mrs As account then the full debt should be written-off,  and 
Mrs As account closed, and any adverse information that has been recorded since  2018 
removed from her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1203624