K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about various errors he says Equifax Limited  has recorded on his credit file. 
And he says its failed to acknowledge his complaint. He wants an explanation and 
compensation.
background
Mr R told us hed written  two letters to Equifax on successive days  in May 2018 about 
inaccurate entries on his credit file. One concerned  an inaccurate  entry  relating to electoral 
roll information. The other related to an alleged outstanding balance on an account.  He says 
Equifax hasnt replied  to his complaints.
Equifax told us it had replied by email to the electoral roll query  on 13 May 2018  and this had 
been sent to Mr Rs online support account.  It said whilst Mr R had updated  his email 
address on his website  account he had not done  so on his support account. And its this 
latter account which is used for correspondence.
Equifax accepted it had erroneously recorded  the two complaints as duplicates and so didnt  
respond to the balance  query matter separately. But it said the credit file was updated by 23 
May to show  a nil balance. It also said it provided evidence  its credit file entry showed Mr R 
at his present  address from 2017.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said Equifax had 
admitted an error in administration  had led to the first letter  about  the incorrect account 
balance not receiving a reply.  But she said this had been rectified promptly. And Equifax had 
acted only upon  the instruction received from the creditor. As she didnt think  thered been 
any financial  or other impact she wouldnt be asking  Equifax to do anything more.
She said shed seen Equifax had replied by email to the second letter  about  the electoral  roll 
entry. But it appeared it was sent to an email address  which was no longer used by Mr R. 
She said Equifax  had provided evidence to show it had recorded him as being  on the 
electoral roll related  to his new address since 2017  - although the exact  date was not 
provided.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this and thought  the complaint hadnt been  investigated  properly. 
As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr R is dissatisfied  with what he sees as an inadequate  response both from this 
service and Equifax.  And I can see he feels strongly  about the matter.
My role is to make a decision  which  resolves  the complaint in what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable manner based on the evidence Ive been given. My decision is also independent  
from any view that might have been expressed earlier.  Whether  I reach the same or a 
different conclusion is based only upon  my individual assessment of the evidence.
Ref: DRN17651872And where  evidence is incomplete or inconsistent - as some of it is here - I have to make  
any finding on a balance of probabilities.
The complaint regarding the incorrect balance  shows that whilst Equifax made an error  and 
didnt reply to Mr Rs letter this didnt affect the situation adversely. The business  which  had 
reported the item updated its information to Equifax and the correct  information was 
recorded from 23 May. It is in any event  not the fault of Equifax if a business provides 
incorrect information - and it updated  the account  immediately upon receipt of the amended 
information.
The issue  over the electoral  roll is one where the evidence is incomplete and not altogether  
consistent. Mr R wrote  to Equifax on 8 May 2018 and said hed seen a copy  of his credit 
report indicating he wasnt on the electoral  roll. He told us he had been registered  since  early  
November 2017  at his new address - and that has been confirmed by other evidence. 
Dealing with the issue of the alleged  non-reply  - Ive seen evidence  Equifax did reply  - but to 
an email address to which Mr R no longer had access. Whilst it seems Equifax had recorded 
Mr Rs new email address on its main system, the support  email  hadnt been updated. Its 
apparently the support system that is used  for general correspondence. As this is a self-
service account I cant find this is the fault of Equifax. In any event the email  indicated Mr R 
was shown as on the electoral roll at his new address. So the fact that Mr R did not receive  
the email did not affect the entry itself.  In those circumstances whilst I acknowledge he 
undoubtedly felt annoyed about  the apparent lack of response - it didnt result in any 
financial detriment.
I can see Mr R and a previous investigator had a telephone conversation  and Mr R was 
asked to provide  a copy of the report he referred to in his letter to Equifax. Although he said 
in his response to the investigators  view hed already  proved  this, I havent seen anything 
recorded within our file. I accept Mr R interpreted what he saw on the document he was 
viewing as meaning he wasnt recorded on the electoral roll. But I cant  say if that was a 
correct understanding  or not - having not seen a copy  myself.  Nor do I know the date the 
document was produced. It is a possibility  that there was a delay between Mr R changing 
from one electoral roll to another being recorded.  But thats purely  speculation on my part. 
And even  if it was accurate it wouldnt have any affect on my decision.
What I have seen  is two different credit reference agency reports  both of which now show  Mr 
R has having been on the electoral roll in 2017 at his new address. The Equifax report does 
not indicate the precise month in 2017 when  this was recorded  against his new address. But 
as the report shows  him being on the electoral roll for many years  up to 2017 at his previous 
address it does appear the record, read as a whole, probably indicates a continuous  
registration. 
In summary,  apart from the error in administration in not recognising a separate  complaint I 
do not think Equifax  has done anything wrong.  And the issue to which that complaint related 
was cleared up quickly and was not caused by Equifax. As Equifax acknowledged  that error  
and no detriment resulted from it, I dont  think its necessary to ask it to do anything  else.  
And on a balance of probabilities I dont think Equifax  made any error in its recording of Mr 
Rs electoral roll status.
Whilst Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for similar reasons, this is 
solely due to the evidence. So whilst I know it will be disappointing  to Mr R I am not 
upholding his complaint.
Ref: DRN17651873my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1765187