K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out 
in 2006. Mrs P says NRAM Limited  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs P and NRAM a provisional decision explaining I planned to uphold the complaint. 
I said Id consider anything else Mrs P or NRAM wanted to give me by 15 June 2019. I said I 
could issue my decision sooner if they replied sooner. Mrs P and NRAM did reply  sooner. 
NRAM said it agreed to uphold the complaint. Mrs P didnt have anything new to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint because I dont think NRAM made it clear to Mrs P 
that she had a choice about  buying the policy. This is because  what NRAM and Mrs P have 
said and given us isnt enough to make me think this was made clear.
Mrs P has said: Before taking the loan, I did ask if necessary because I already had an 
insurance cover with the mortgage. Further advice was given that I have to take the 
insurance since this was out from my mortgage. Given  how long ago the sale was, these  
recollections arent enough  on their own to make me think NRAM told Mrs P that she had to 
take the PPI  and I havent  seen  anything else to make me think this is what NRAM told 
Mrs P. But Ive also thought about whether NRAM made it clear the PPI was optional.
Mrs P applied for the loan by phone and NRAM sold her the PPI, on a non-advised basis, 
during the phone call. I say the sale was non-advised because NRAM has given  us notes for 
the call. These say Mrs P answered Yes when NRAM  asked her:
We can assess  your personal needs  and then advise and recommend the most suitable 
additional borrowing  and insurance package for you. OR we can give you some  information 
on our additional  borrowing  and insurance products so you can make  your own choice. Are 
you happy for me to just give you information on our products? 
NRAM went on to tell Mrs P about the loan products available  noting  her choice from four 
options given  to her. I understand these options were  to do with the borrowing.  Mrs P then 
opted to have the borrowing on a repayment  not interest-only basis.
NRAM went on to invite Mrs P to agree to be contacted by an adviser  from an associated 
insurer. The notes say she agreed. This contact will have been for other sorts of insurance  
not the PPI itself. The PPI was sold later in the call by NRAM, not in a later discussion with 
an insurers representative.
In the call NRAM went on to collect some further details from Mrs P that appear to have 
been relevant  to her eligibility  for the PPI, but the questions themselves didnt refer to this. 
The script then prompts  NRAM to quote Mrs P on the PPI and the borrowing. So it looks  like 
Ref: DRN19724642the loan and PPI cost was quoted to Mrs P at that point. From the script, it looks  like it was 
made clear that there was life, sickness, unemployment  and disability protection  and that a 
figure was given for this cover as part of a breakdown of the overall mortgage payment. So it 
looks like Mrs P was made aware  of what the PPI would cost. 
The script then prompts  NRAM to handle objections that Mrs P might raise  at this point. But 
from what Ive seen,  NRAM hadnt invited Mrs P to say whether  she might want the cover 
before it gave her the PPI quote. And having  given the quote, I cant see from the notes that 
NRAM asked Mrs P whether or not she wanted  the PPI cover.
The script did prompt NRAM to say: To take advantage of this cover all you need to do is 
complete the PPI application form, which will be sent to you with your offer of loan. There  will 
be a leaflet in the pack explaining  all the benefits  and the exclusions. But this isnt the same 
as asking whether  Mrs P wanted the PPI or telling her she had a choice about taking it.
NRAM then went through  some main features of the cover and said:  Youll need to let us 
know if there are any changes in your circumstances that may effect the offer of insurance.  
It then asked:  Does this sound  OK? But no answer was recorded to that. NRAM then 
asked: Do you have any questions? and the notes say Mrs P said no. The call went on to 
take a few more  details  and then give an initial lending  decision.
From what  Ive seen, the closest NRAM came  in the call to making  it clear  to Mrs P the PPI 
was optional, or asking  whether she wanted  it, was when NRAM asked Does this sound 
OK? after telling her shed need  to tell NRAM if her circumstances  changed in a way that 
might affect the insurance. But taking into account that she didnt answer that, its not clear 
to me that Mrs P understood this as a question about whether she wanted  the PPI. So its 
not clear to me that this made Mrs P aware that taking  PPI was something  she had a choice 
about. Mrs P couldve asked NRAM about  this when invited  to ask questions. But this isnt 
the same  as asking whether Mrs P wanted  PPI or making it clear she didnt  have to take it.
Based on the script it looks like NRAM wouldve got in touch with Mrs P a few days  later to 
let her know the loan had been approved. A few days  later NRAM sent Mrs P a loan offer 
and a PPI quote.  The notes to the PPI quote refer to the PPI as optional  cover.  Also page  six 
of the loan offer says the PPI is optional insurance  Mrs P didnt have to take through NRAM. 
But neither  of these  documents  offered or invited Mrs P to make a choice about taking the 
PPI. Likewise the PPI application form Mrs P signed after receiving these papers  thanked  
her for choosing the PPI and asked her to check she was eligible before completing the 
form, but it didnt ask her whether she wanted the cover.
Ive thought about all this carefully. Ive also taken  into account that the loan and PPI were 
sold during the phone call and I think its likely Mrs P mostly relied on what  was said during 
that call. On balance, and bearing in mind  what Ive already said above about  what  was said 
during the call, the documents that were sent after the call dont make me think that NRAM 
most likely made it clear to Mrs P at the sale that she had a choice about taking the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  what Ive seen doesnt persuade  me NRAM made  it clear  to 
Mrs P at the sale that she didnt have to take the PPI  and Mrs P hasnt said anything  that 
makes me think she agreed to the PPI knowing  she didnt have to. So I think  Mrs P took out 
the PPI without really  wanting it and so I uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN19724643NRAM should put Mrs P in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken the PPI. So the 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and NRAM should:
Pay Mrs P the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, NRAM can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
If NRAM has already repaid to Mrs P any commission amount that relates  to this PPI 
sale, that payment  can be deducted by NRAM from the redress shown above.
 NRAM  has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs P can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. NRAM Limited  should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1972464