K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1988 
alongside a secured loan.  Mr and Mrs Q say Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Qs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Q say that they thought the PPI was a condition of the mortgage. Ive thought  
about what theyve  said but I havent seen any evidence to support this. Ive also considered  
that the PPI was sold a long time ago  around  31 years ago  which  is something I have to 
keep in mind when deciding what I think is more likely  to have happened.  
Ive seen a copy  of the application form Mr and Mrs Q saw and signed  when applying for 
their additional  borrowing. This included a section for PPI and this section was completed 
with information  about the amount of monthly benefit required for Mr Q only. But there is 
nothing in this section to suggest  Mr and Mrs Q had to take out the policy to get the loan.  So 
based on what Ive seen I think B&B made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs Q didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that they chose to take it out in Mr Qs name only  although I can understand 
why they cant  remember  this.
Mr and Mrs Q say B&B recommended the PPI them.  But B&B says it didnt provide any 
advice. As things stand  there isnt enough  information to determine  this point. But doing  so 
isnt critical to the outcome of the complaint because had B&B recommended  the PPI, for the 
reasons outlined below, I think the policy was suitable for them. So Ive considered this case 
as an advised  sale. 
As an advised sale B&B wouldve had to take reasonable steps to ensure the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of Mr Qs circumstances  (as the insured party)  at the 
time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. Ive seen that Mr Q feels 
the policy wasnt suitable for him as he was self-employed. But Mr Q only took out the 
accident and sickness option (known  as injury and illness at the time)  so the exclusions 
around claiming unemployment for a self-employed  person dont apply.   
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs Q say that Mrs Q was on maternity  leave at the time of sale,  
and not unemployed. Ive considered this and even  if Mrs Q was on maternity leave I still 
think the cover was suitable for them in Mr Qs name only at the time they took it out. I say 
this because Mrs Q wouldnt have been  able to claim on the policy while  on maternity  leave 
from work  so during this time the policy wouldnt have been of any use to her. 
Mr and Mrs Q say they couldve  relied on their family to support them in the event Mr Q was 
unable to work. But help from others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances may 
also change over time. Ive also considered that Mr Q didnt have any other  means to keep 
Ref: DRN18718612up his repayments  had he been too sick to work. Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months - so I think it wouldve been useful for them.  And as, at the time, 
Mrs Q wasnt  receiving her full pay I think this wouldve been especially useful for them  had 
Mr Q been unable to work  while she was on maternity  leave. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs Q about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover 
for Mr Q only. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Q. But 
B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Q because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs Q about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs Q, that was unfair.  
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs Q any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs Q any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs Q the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs Q 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs Q can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Q.
But Bradford  & Bingley plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs Q any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1871861