K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Santander UK Plc charged her for unarranged overdraft usage.  She 
is unhappy that they didnt  freeze  the charges on the account sooner than they did. She 
wants a refund of her charges  and her credit file amended. 
background
On 30 March 2018, Miss G made a payment from her account held with Santander. This 
payment took her £20.27  overdrawn. 
On 26 April 2018, Miss G paid £21 into the account.  
She was then charged £85 for unarranged  overdraft usage and a £10 paid transaction fee 
on 15 May 2018. 
On 13 June 2018, she was charged £60 for unarranged overdraft usage.
On 14 July 2018, she was charged  £95 for unarranged overdraft usage. 
On 14 August 2018, she was charged  £95 for unarranged overdraft  usage.
 
On 13 September  2018, she was charged  £48 for unarranged overdraft usage.
It appears that Miss G contacted Santander at least twice to complain about these charges. 
Miss G says that she was told that the charges would still be applied.  
Then, it seems that someone from Santander  called Miss G and she complained  again.  At 
this point, she was told that the charges would be put on hold until the issue had been  
resolved. The charges,  at this point, were  nearly  £400. Miss Gs credit  file was amended  to 
record this.
Santander said that they wouldnt remove the charges. Miss G wasnt happy  with this so she 
came to us.
Our adjudicator found that Santander  hadnt done anything wrong. He said that the charges 
had been applied correctly and, under the terms and conditions of Miss Gs account, she 
was obliged to pay them. He also thought that the credit  file was accurate so he wouldnt ask 
Santander to amend  it. 
Miss G wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Miss G wont be happy  with my decision. I dont think  that Santander have 
done anything  wrong. I will explain why. 
I can fully understand  Miss Gs upset at having to pay around £400  in charges when she 
was only overdrawn by £20.27. This is especially as she put £21 into her account within  a 
Ref: DRN12293962month. It doesnt make sense that the charges amount to around 20 times the amount that 
she was overdrawn by. It doesnt seem fair. But, unfortunately, Santander  are allowed to 
apply these charges.  In a 2009 case,  the Supreme Court found that banks do not have to 
refund any charges that are applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Also, the charges cant  be challenged on the grounds of being too high. The financial 
ombudsman service is bound by this decision and I am unable to decide that the charges 
were too high.
I can only order Santander  to repay  Miss Gs charges if the terms and conditions of the 
account werent followed. I have looked  into these and I thought  that they hadnt been 
followed as the current terms  state  that unarranged  overdraft usage fees are capped  at £50 
per month. On questioning Santander  about  this, I have been informed that the cap came in 
on 10 July 2018.  Previously, the monthly charges were capped  at £95. The charges are 
applied a month in arrears  and Miss G has been  refunded any overcharged fees.  I have 
checked, and the refund was made. 
So, it appears that Santander  has acted  within in terms  and conditions  in applying  the 
charges. 
Because the credit file accurately reflects what has happened, I cant  ask Santander to 
change it. 
I know that this isnt the decision that Miss G wanted  and I am sorry for this. But I cant find 
that Santander has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I wont be asking Santander UK Plc to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1229396