K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Finance  
applied unfair  charges  when he returned his vehicle  at the end of a hire purchase 
agreement. He also complains that the agreement was misrepresented.  He wants  the 
charges to be waived  and compensation.
background
Mr S tells us that at the end of a 42 month Personal  Contract Purchase agreement  (a type of 
hire purchase agreement) he returned  his vehicle to Skoda. He says the vehicle was in good  
condition and had covered less than 25,000 miles.  Which he states was lower  than the 
contract allowance. Mr S says hes been charged  for damage  to a bumper, a door and a 
quarter panel.  And he doesnt think the charges are justified. He also says the agreement  
was misrepresented as he was told thered be a deposit available to use on his next vehicle 
when the current  agreement ended. He says hes now been told that this isnt the case.
Skoda told us that the damage  charges had been applied after the vehicle  had been  
inspected in accordance with guidelines  set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guide. It said it was unable to comment  on any 
verbal discussion that had taken place  at the time of supply as the retailer  had ceased 
trading in 2015.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She felt the charges for 
damage had been  applied  in line with the terms of the finance agreement. And the relevant 
BVRLA guidelines. And she found that the finance  agreement didnt mention any deposit 
being carried forward. She expected this wouldve been shown in the agreement  if it had 
been part of the deal.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. He said he didnt think  the BVRLA guidance was 
realistic or reasonable with regard to the conditions of vehicles used  on roads in the UK. And 
he repeated that he thought the agreement had been misrepresented. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S feels strongly about these issues.  I understand hed be disappointed to 
learn that charges for damage were being  applied and that no deposit would be rolled  over 
to a new agreement.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S is alleging the agreement was misrepresented. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I 
do take it into account. And relevant  law here includes  the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA). 
This means  that Skoda  would be responsible for any misrepresentation which took place 
during the antecedent negotiations and which led to the finance agreement  being 
implemented. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to 
enter an agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN13020132Ive looked at the copy of the agreement which Mr S took out in 2014. Theres nothing in the 
agreement or the pre-contract information  which accompanied it to indicate thered be any 
carry over to fund the deposit on a new agreement. Obviously  Im not able to comment  
directly upon what was discussed between  Mr S and the sales  agent at the relevant  time. 
But if such a term had been part of the finance  agreement Id have expected it to be set out 
in writing. In the absence  of anything within the agreement  to this effect I dont think theres 
sufficient information  to say the agreement was misrepresented.
Our adjudicator set out the precise  details  of the BVRLA guidelines which  are relevant to the 
damage charges  in this case. I neednt  repeat  these as the parties have seen them.  Ive 
seen good quality colour photographs which accompanied  the vehicle inspection  report.  Im 
satisfied the damage  depicted  in these images is outside the BVRLA guidelines. And is 
properly chargeable under the terms and conditions of the finance agreement.
I should explain that this service  doesnt prepare  the guidelines but my determination of this 
complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).  
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account  relevant: (NB. My underscoring).
 law and regulations;
 regulators  rules  guidance and standards; 
 codes  of practice; and 
 (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
Theres nothing in the agreement which requires Skoda to offset any mileage  allowance  that 
hasnt been used against other charges. The contracted mileage under the agreement was 
recorded as 28,000 miles and the vehicle had only covered 24,338 miles when returned. But 
as the unused mileage was available  for Mr S it was his choice whether or not to make use 
of it.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the damage was assessed in line with the relevant guidelines. And 
that the charges were applied in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the finance 
agreement. Theres  insufficient information  to conclude there was any misrepresentation of 
the agreement. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302013