K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C has complained that Tuto Money  Limited  mis-sold her term assurance policy.
Background
Mrs C took out a term assurance  policy through Tuto Money on October 2016. The policy  
provided cover of £150,000 over a term of 23 years. The sum assured would be paid in the 
event of death or terminal illness.  Ill refer to the insurer as, R.
Mrs C was sadly diagnosed with cancer in March 2019 so she contacted  R to make a claim.  
R told her that her policy didnt include critical illness cover so it couldnt consider a claim. 
Mrs C complained to Tuto, she said shed specifically asked for a policy with critical illness 
cover and had been  led to believe  this was what shed taken.
Tuto didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said the documents issued to Mrs C, both 
by it and by R, showed  that shed taken life cover  only.  It said none of the paperwork  Mrs C 
received wouldve led her to believe shed taken  critical illness cover.
Mrs C remained  unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. She said one of the 
main reasons for wanting the cover was because  a friend had recently  been  diagnosed with 
cancer, so shed wanted to be protected in those circumstances. Mrs C thought Tuto should  
pay the equivalent of the sum assured to settle  her complaint.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She didnt  think Tuto needed to pay the equivalent  of 
the sum assured to Mrs C  this was because she wasnt  persuaded Mrs C wouldve been 
able to afford a critical illness policy providing  this amount of cover. Also,  she thought Mrs C 
ought to have known she hadnt taken out critical illness  cover  based on the documents  she 
received. But she thought  the advice provided  by Tuto was poor. She didnt think  the adviser 
had properly established Mrs Cs needs  and so had deprived her of the opportunity to get 
the cover  she wanted. She recommended Tuto pay Mrs C £1,000  for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said the adviser  had clearly misled her by advising the policy shed 
taken included critical illness cover. Mrs C understood that she may not have been able to 
afford what R wouldve  charged to include critical illness  cover  in her policy, but she 
wouldve taken her business elsewhere and got a cheaper quote. She said the £1,000 
recommended didnt fairly compensate  her for not being able to make a claim for her illness.
Tuto also didnt agree, it said the adviser had a duty to recommend a policy  that was 
affordable and Mrs C couldnt  have afforded  the critical illness cover. It also said she 
appeared to have confused terminal illness cover with critical illness  cover. Tuto maintained 
the paperwork was clear, which Mrs C was obliged to check.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
Mrs C has since  provided us with some more information showing that at the time of the 
advice in 2016, she already had a critical illness insurance policy with a sum assured of 
£30,000. The policy started in 2013 and was due to end in 2038 but it was cancelled  in 
October 2018 due to non-payment of premiums.
Ref: DRN18019512Our investigator asked  Mrs C why she hadnt mentioned this to the Tuto adviser  in 2016 and 
why it had been cancelled in 2018  if the policy she took in 2016  was intended to replace it. 
Mrs C said she hadnt been asked about  any existing insurance by the adviser in 2016. 
Mrs C also said she hadnt taken the policy out in 2016 to replace her existing one, she said 
she was entitled  to take out as many  policies as she wanted.  She said this one had been 
cancelled due to a change in her financial circumstances, but she believed  the policy shed 
taken with R still left her with sufficient  critical illness cover.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having taken into account the points 
raised by both parties, Im upholding the complaint.
To resolve  the complaint  Im asking Tuto to pay Mrs C £1,000 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the service  they provided.  I appreciate  Mrs C will be disappointed with this, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this outcome.
What happened  at the point of sale?
As I understand it, Mrs C was searching  for insurance on a price comparison website and 
applied for a quote. This prompted  a call back from Tuto. Weve  been provided with the call 
recordings of the conversations Mrs C had with Tutos advisers, which  Ive listened to.
As this was an advised sale, Tuto was required to make a recommendation that was suitable  
for Mrs Cs needs and provide her with information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
The first call shows Mrs C was looking for joint cover  of £100,000  with her husband over 
12 years.  The adviser, who Ill refer to as J, asked what the main purpose  of the cover was. 
Mrs C mentioned family protection and critical  illness. J asked Mrs C some questions about  
her health,  occupation and income. However,  the sale couldnt be completed at the time so 
another call was arranged for later that day. Mrs C wasnt  able to take the later call so J 
arranged a call back for the following day.
It appears by the time J called Mrs C back he had produced a quote based on the first 
conversation. In the call, J explained that Tuto was authorised to sell critical illness  cover, life 
assurance, income protection  and buildings and contents cover. Mrs C asked if shed be 
covered for critical illness if she chose  the quote. J responded by saying they offered all 
types of insurance  and she could choose what she wanted. I think  this answer was unclear 
and potentially misleading as hed already produced a quote that only offered life cover,  so 
I think at this point J should  have spelt out clearly what  was covered to Mrs C.
J confirmed he was recommending  a menu protection plan with R which provided individual  
cover of £150,000  for Mr and Mrs C over 23 years. J explained  R was the most  competitive 
for death and critical illness cover. J took some additional health  information  about Mr C. He 
then confirmed the premium payable and said this would provide cover for death, accidental 
death or being diagnosed with a terminal illness.
Throughout the two calls,  the only question J asked about Mrs Cs needs was what  the 
purpose of the cover  was, to which she replied family  protection  and critical illness.  But this 
appears to have been ignored or overlooked  by J, who quoted  for life cover only.
Ref: DRN18019513J didnt ask Mrs C about whether  she had any existing cover  I think this is an important 
question to ask in any fact finding  process  in order  to make a suitable  recommendation. As it 
turns out, Mrs C did have  existing cover  this has been verified by the insurer.  I wouldnt 
have expected her to volunteer this information as she wouldnt have necessarily understood 
the significance  of it. But J shouldve asked about  this so he could factor  it in to his 
recommendation and affordability assessment.
J also confused  the terminology throughout the call, referring to terminal  illness  and critical 
illness interchangeably. I think this is why Mrs C ended the conversation believing she and 
her husband  had applied for life assurance policies that included critical illness cover.
Having considered the calls as whole,  I dont think J undertook a thorough fact-finding 
process nor did he properly establish Mr and Mrs Cs needs.  He appears to have  ignored  
Mrs Cs request for critical  illness cover  entirely,  without explanation. So I cant conclude he 
made a suitable  recommendation  which met Mr and Mrs Cs needs.
As per Mrs Cs recent  disclosure, I dont think the policy with R was intended to replace  her 
existing insurance.  Instead,  it appears  she was seeking additional critical illness  cover. So, 
I think Mrs C has been deprived of the opportunity  to take an additional suitable  life and 
critical illness policy. As Ive found the sale was not conducted appropriately, I have to 
consider what impact this had on Mrs C, and more importantly what  shed have done 
differently had the sale been conducted  appropriately. 
What would Mrs C have  done differently?
 
Mrs C says Tuto should pay compensation equivalent to the sum assured, on the basis  that 
she could have made a successful  critical  illness  claim if the policy had been sold correctly. 
She said this is the cover  she asked for so she wouldve taken this out. But I dont think  that 
would be fair in the circumstances.
Its clear from the calls that the cost of insurance  was an important  consideration; Mrs C was 
originally quoted around £75 per month for £150,000 of cover  for her and Mr C. However,  
Mrs C thought this was too much,  so Mr Cs cover  was reduced to £100,000, bringing the 
total premium down to around £60 per month.  It wouldve cost Mr and Mrs C over £200  per 
month for life and critical  illness cover of £100,000. As Mrs C had turned down a quote  for 
£75 a month, when  she believed  this included critical  illness  insurance, I think  its highly 
unlikely shed have  accepted a quote that was over double the cost. Its also unclear if the 
higher premium wouldve been affordable for them at the time. So I dont think Mrs C would 
have proceeded  with the policy had it also included critical illness cover.  Furthermore, given 
Mrs C had to cancel  her existing insurance in 2018, it seems unlikely she wouldve been 
able to maintain  the payments required for a policy  with a higher sum assured.
Mrs C says she wouldve gone elsewhere for a cheaper quote. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to say that this couldve  been  achieved for their budget of £60 per month.  R has 
told us that £60 per month wouldve only achieved joint cover of around £16,000 and based 
on my experience I think policies with different  insurers  would be priced  similarly.
Its difficult for me to say what cover Mrs C wouldve ended  up with had the sale been 
conducted fairly. As Mrs C already had critical illness cover  of £30,000, for which  she was 
paying £18 per month, its possible she wouldve  proceeded with Tutos recommendation for 
life cover only. But I dont  think she wouldve been in a position where she had a policy 
Ref: DRN18019514providing critical illness cover of £100,000 or more.  This is why I dont think  it would be fair 
for Tuto to pay the equivalent of the benefit  payable for a claim.
Ive thought about what Mrs C has said about  allowing her existing cover to lapse because 
she thought the policy  shed taken  out with R included critical illness  cover. I do think  Mrs C 
had reason to believe  shed applied  for this cover following her conversations  with Tuto.  But 
I cant ignore that she received paperwork from Tuto by email on 21 October 2016 
confirming that the recommended policy was life assurance, which  would pay a lump sum if 
they passed away or became terminally ill. There wasnt any mention of critical illness cover.  
Mr and Mrs C received  further documents from R that showed the policy only included  life 
cover and a terminal illness benefit. Mr and Mrs C were asked to check  this paperwork  
carefully and let R know if anything didnt look right.
I appreciate Mrs C allowed her existing policy to lapse because  she thought she had critical 
illness cover  with R. But I think  Mr and Mrs C ought  to have known they hadnt taken out any 
critical illness cover on receipt of the documents sent by Tuto and R in October  2016. It also 
isnt clear whether  Mrs C couldve afforded to continue paying for her existing cover  even if 
shed known the policy with R provided  only life cover, as shes  explained her decision to 
cancel the plan was also influenced by a change in her financial situation. So, I dont think 
I can fairly attribute  Mrs Cs decision to allow her existing  policy  to lapse in 2018 to the 
advice she was given  in 2016.
In light of the above, I think  a fair compromise would be for Tuto to pay Mrs C £1,000  for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the inadequate  sales process. I think this fairly reflects the 
significant distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in the sale and Mrs Cs 
loss of opportunity  to obtain a policy that fully met her needs.  This has left Mrs C in a very 
difficult position having been  diagnosed with a serious illness  without appropriate critical 
illness cover.  And I think Tutos poor service in 2016  has contributed to this.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint  in part.
Tuto Money Limited should pay Mrs C £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
inadequate sale of her term assurance  policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1801951