K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HSBC  UK Bank Plc wont  refund the £9,464.91 they lost when 
they were the victims  of a scam.
Background
After receiving a letter  saying the interest  rates on their savings accounts would be lowered,  
Mr and Mrs W say they looked around  for somewhere they could earn a higher rate. They  
found an investment  they were interested in. And, after being sent paperwork for it, they 
went into an HSBC branch and made a payment for the investment by transferring money 
from their joint savings  account.
Mr and Mrs W say they were told they would receive quarterly payments from the 
investment, but the second scheduled  payment didnt  arrive. And when Mr and Mrs W then 
tried to contact the investment company, they found  its phone  had been disconnected, its 
website had disappeared and it wasnt responding to emails. So they reported  the payment 
to HSBC as a scam and asked that their money be returned.
HSBC investigated  but said it had acted  on Mr and Mrs Ws instruction  to make the payment, 
so the money  wouldnt be refunded. It said it had done all it could to recover the money from 
the receiving bank, but it hadnt received a response. And it offered Mr and Mrs W £100 
compensation for the delays in its investigation. Mr and Mrs W werent  happy  with HSBCs 
response, so they referred  their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and felt HSBC  should have been concerned 
that Mr and Mrs W were  at risk of financial harm and so taken steps to investigate further. 
And that, if it had done so, the scam  wouldve been prevented. So they recommended  HSBC 
refund the payment, plus interest. HSBC disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mr and Mrs W authorised the payment for the investment. They accept 
they made the payment  in branch. So, while  I recognise they didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, under  the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions 
of the account,  the starting position is that Mr and Mrs W are liable for the payment and 
HSBC doesnt  have to refund it to them.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
Ref: DRN19659802particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases.
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
Having looked  at the evidence of the previous activity on Mr and Mrs Ws account, I think  
this payment of £9,464.91 was unusual  and out of character.  It was for a relatively large 
amount of money.  The statements  for the account show it was for a significantly larger 
amount than any other transaction  on the account in the previous six months. And it was an 
international payment to a payee Mr and Mrs W hadnt sent money to before. So I think 
HSBC should  have identified that Mr and Mrs W were potentially at risk of fraud  as a result 
of the payment and carried out additional checks before processing it.
HSBC says it did speak  to Mr and Mrs W about  the purpose of the payment, and was 
concerned about  whether they were potentially vulnerable customers. But as Mr and Mrs W 
said they had carried out their own research  into the company and were  happy to make  the 
payment, the payment was made.
However, I dont think these checks went far enough or that HSBC asked sufficiently probing 
questions to satisfy  itself that Mr and Mrs W werent  at risk. I accept its not for this service to 
dictate the checks  HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. But, particularly given the 
size of this payment and how unusual it was, I think in these circumstances it would be 
reasonable to expect  these checks to include questions about  what research Mr and Mrs W 
had done, whether theyd used the investment  company before and whether theyd checked 
if the investment  company was FCA authorised.  And, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
not satisfied HSBC asked questions like these. And so Im not satisfied it took sufficient  
steps to check whether  Mr and Mrs W were potentially at risk from the payment.
If it had asked these  questions,  I think  HSBC  wouldve found out that Mr and Mrs Ws 
research had been relatively basic and just involved checking the address for the investment 
company existed and the telephone  number  was connected. And it wouldve  found out Mr 
and Mrs W hadnt used  the investment company before and hadnt checked  whether it was 
FCA authorised. On finding this out, I think HSBC  should then have warned Mr and Mrs W 
Ref: DRN19659803about the increase in scams of this type in recent years  and the risks of using an investment 
company that wasnt FCA authorised.
HSBC has said that Mr and Mrs W told it they were happy with the research they had done.  
And that Mr and Mrs W were still happy with their investment and didnt report  it as a scam, 
even after issues with the first quarterly payment and seeing an FCA warning about  the 
investment company. So it doesnt think any further  checks or warning wouldve stopped Mr 
and Mrs W from making the payment.
But the problem  with the first quarterly payment and the FCA warning came after Mr and 
Mrs W had already made the payment. And I think warnings given before someone is 
involved in something  are more likely to be effective than those given after,  as the person is 
already committed afterwards. And from what Mr and Mrs W have said, I dont think they 
were particularly confident in their own investment knowledge and wouldve valued any 
warnings from HSBC.
So I think warnings from HSBC about  similar scams and the risks of using an investment 
company that wasnt FCA authorised wouldve led Mr and Mrs W to at least  look into the 
investment company further. And, if theyd done  this, I think  the scam wouldve  unfolded  and 
they wouldnt have  made the payment. So if HSBC had carried out additional checks before 
processing the payment, as I think it should have, I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve lost 
the £9.464.91 they did.
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs W should  bear some responsibility  for their loss. But I 
dont think it would be fair for them to do so. This was a sophisticated scam and the 
documents the investment company sent to Mr and Mrs W about the investment look 
legitimate. And while Mr and Mrs W could have done further checks into the investment 
company themselves, they werent  experienced investors and I dont think it would  be fair to 
say they were grossly  negligent or had acted unreasonably in not doing so.
So I think HSBC should refund the full amount of the payment of £9,464.91  to Mr and 
Mrs W.
As Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have lost this money  if HSBC had done more, theyve now been 
without that money  for a period of time. I therefore  also think  HSBC should pay them  
compensatory interest  at the rate of 8% simple a year on the £9,464.91 from the date it was 
paid until the date it is refunded.
HSBC has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs W £100 as compensation for the delays in its 
investigation. And I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. My decision is that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund Mr and Mrs W the £9,464.91
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that amount, from the time of the payment until the 
time it is refunded
Pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation
Ref: DRN19659804HM Revenue & Customs  may require HSBC  to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mr and 
Mrs W. If it does, and if Mr and Mrs W request  it, HSBC should provide  them  with a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1965980