K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  through  a total mortgage protection policy  
(TMPP).
background
In 2005, at a meeting with the bank, Mrs and Mr A took out a mortgage. A PPI policy was 
added to their account to protect their mortgage repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. They were covered equally  under the policy for PPI. TMPP was 
a package of different  types of insurance,  including mortgage repayment cover, which is a 
form of PPI. Mrs and Mr A also took out critical illness and life cover.  Im just dealing  with the 
PPI part of their policy  here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs and Mr As complaint. Mrs and Mr A didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  their complaint. Mrs and Mr As complaint  comes to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs and Mr As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs and Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mrs and Mr A took out the insurance. Mrs 
and Mr A said they didnt  know  PPI had been added and didnt want  it. But, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  them to recall exactly what was discussed at the time, given the time 
that has passed. This means that what Mrs and Mr A say isnt enough  on its own for me to 
be able to uphold  their complaint. I must  look at the available information and take into 
account the wider  circumstances to decide what most likely happened,  based  on whats  
available. I have to be impartial.  
In order to uphold  Mrs and Mr As complaint Id have to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  
their consent. But I cant fairly  say that based on the information Ive got, and what we know  
about Bank of Scotlands sales processes around  that time. 
Ive seen their mortgage offer. That made it clear that PPI was an Optional Insurance. The 
cost of PPI was listed, along with the cost of buildings and contents,  life and critical illness  
cover. The mortgage offer said that Mrs and Mr A had chosen  to take this cover out through  
the bank. So, I think they probably  wouldve understood  that it wasnt  necessary to take PPI 
to get the mortgage, but opted to do so. I think it likely that there  was a conversation about 
PPI and the other insurances and they opted take out the insurances that best met their 
needs.
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mrs and Mr A werent given enough 
information about the optional nature  of PPI to make  an informed choice  that they wanted it. 
Ref: DRN15102532On balance, I think its just as likely that Mrs and Mr A was persuaded of the need to protect 
their home by taking  out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy. 
The policy was recommended to Mrs and Mr A. So Bank of Scotland had to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for them, as well as giving  them  information  that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that they could make an informed  choice  about whether the policy  was right 
for them and they wanted to buy it. 
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr A based on what  Ive seen  of their 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
they appeared eligible  to take out the cover.
Mr A said he wouldve got six months  at full pay and three months at half pay from 
work if he was off sick. He said he was eligible  for redundancy  pay too. Mrs A said 
she had savings and couldve relied on her partner  to help. But I still think TMPP 
couldve provided them with useful protection. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months per successful claim, so potentially longer than Mr As work benefits wouldve 
lasted for. They couldve  made repeated claims under the policy.  So TMPP gave 
them long term protection for their mortgage,  protecting their home. It wouldve 
allowed them to use their work benefits  to meet their other household expenses  and 
paid their mortgage; which it might have  been  difficult for them to do if one of them  
wasnt working. 
there were some things  the policy didnt cover. I cant see that they were  affected by 
these. So, I dont  think having more information  about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Mrs and Mr A paid a monthly  premium  for TMPP. They  didnt have to pay interest on 
the premium and couldve stopped the policy at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant see that it was unaffordable.  
Its possible they couldve been given clear information about the costs of the policy.  
But, I dont think having clearer information wouldve changed their decision as the 
TMPP seemed affordable,  they were  told the cost of it and agreed to take it out, and 
it was suitable  for their needs.  
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided  them with useful protection  to safeguard 
their home.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  But, I 
think Mrs and Mr A still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if they had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave them useful protection  in their circumstances. I 
cant see that theyve  lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland may have done 
wrong.
Ref: DRN15102533my final decision 
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1510253