K820x#14complaint
Miss Es representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC, complains  that Phoenix 
Life Limited wrongly advised her to invest £1,000 in 2000 given she was a student, reliant on 
her parents  financial support and had no earnings.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
recommended product,  a with-profits bond, was of low risk and this matched Miss Es 
recorded willingness  to take a small risk with this sum of money. While the investment  
needed to be retained for five years for maximum benefit he noted that Miss E kept it for 10 
years and received  a 33% return on surrender.
He also noted  that this money came from a maturing investment product, indicating Miss E 
had some investment  experience. He also felt the advisors record indicated  that hed 
discussed the risks inherent in this medium term, risk-based investment, and that Miss E had 
made an informed decision to go ahead. The advisor recorded:
Have pointed out that she should have an emergency fund even though  she has no direct 
outgoings, but she feels that she can manage  with family help until she starts work and 
would prefer to invest to get a potentially  better  rate of growth.
Miss Es representative did not agree, reiterating  its earlier concerns:
Miss E was 18 years of age with no previous investment experience.  The maturing 
policy, from which this money came, would have been set up by a family  member 
due to Miss Es age
She was a student with no income  or savings and while the paperwork states  her 
family would  support  her, this was a long term investment and her life would 
potentially change  dramatically now that she was an adult
The advisor should not have  recommended  she invest for the long term at this point 
in her life especially  as she had no savings
The advisor could  not have known  at the time if or when she would  require the funds
Irrespective of the fund recommended, it is not suitable for an advisor to recommend 
a client invest all of their cash  for the longer  term with penalties  if withdrawals  or 
encashment was made  in the early  years
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, I should explain  that in order to uphold this complaint I would need to conclude  that 
the advisors recommendation was clearly  wrong AND that Miss E has suffered as a result of 
it. I do not think there is sufficient evidence  to fairly  reach such a conclusion on either point.
There are obviously downsides to an 18 year old investing any money in a medium  term 
investment, particularly when the sum in question appears to represent all or nearly  all of 
their money  and for the reasons the CMC has fairly outlined.
Ref: DRN19699592But I am not sure this advice was self-evidently  inappropriate. Miss E, having benefitted from 
a family  investment  made  on her behalf,  appears  to have chosen to reinvest  this money  
rather than keep it in easily-accessible sources where she could spend it at will. And the 
advisors report indicates that she was made  aware  of the risk of not keeping a significant  
emergency sum.
The investment itself was suitably  low risk and, crucially, she retained it for far longer than 
the minimum five year commitment. This suggests  she did not, in practice,  suffer any early  
withdrawal penalties. So even if the advisor should  not have recommended  the investment 
(which Im not convinced  about) I cant see that Miss E has suffered as a result  of it given 
she kept it for 12 years and got a reasonable return  on her money.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1969959