K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1995.
background
The policy was taken  out in a meeting, at the same time that the mortgage was arranged.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Js representative  disagreed with these findings.  It has stated that Mr J 
was told it was compulsory to take out PPI in order to be granted the mortgage.  It has also 
stated that Mr J was not given sufficient information  about the policy terms, and was not 
questioned about his medical history.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Mr J has said that he was told PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage.  Clearly I cannot 
know for certain what happened when the policy was arranged. I am mindful that the 
meeting that resulted in PPI cover commencing occurred a number of years ago, in my view 
making it more difficult to recall in detail.
The mortgage application included a section relating to PPI. It asked whether the applicant 
required PPI, and Yes and No answers were  available.  The form signed by Mr J had a tick 
beside the yes response.  The level of cover was then chosen.
I have carefully considered Mr Js comments regarding the sale of PPI. I have to determine 
what I consider most likely happened at this time. Based on the evidence  provided, including  
the mortgage application, on balance  I consider  it more likely than not that PPI was 
presented as an optional product to Mr J, and that he chose to take it out.
Cumberland accepts that it advised  Mr J to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It also had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so that Mr J could make  a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at Mr Js circumstances when the policy was sold, my view is that it was 
suitable for him for the following reasons:
Mr J has confirmed his employee  benefits available  to him at the time he took out the 
policy. He has also said that his family  could have  helped  him meet mortgage 
repayments if he wasnt working. However,  in my view such support cannot be 
guaranteed for an unknown date in the future.
Bearing in mind the importance of maintaining mortgage repayments, my view is that PPI 
did provide a useful  benefit to Mr J if he was unable to work because of disability or 
Ref: DRN19722102unemployment.
Mr J was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main 
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
I acknowledge Mr Js representatives  comments that the policy terms were not made 
sufficiently clear for Mr J. However  for the same reasons that Ive decided  the policy was 
suitable, my view is that better information would not have  put Mr J off taking out the PPI.
The representative has also stated  that Mr J was not asked about his medical history. But as 
Mr J has not indicated that at the point of sale he had any pre-existing conditions, on 
balance I do not consider  any failings regarding the questions asked in this regard would 
have made  a difference to Mr J taking the policy out. I appreciate that Mr J will be 
disappointed with my findings. However  my conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold.
But Cumberland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Cumberland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Cumberland didnt tell Mr J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Cumberland  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Cumberland has to pay back  to Mr J any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Cumberland should also pay back  to Mr J any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Cumberland should  pay back  to Mr J the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Cumberland should also pay 
Mr J 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN19722103John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1972210