K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in July 1995  in connection with a loan.
background
Mrs E complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs E disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint for the reasons Ive set out below. 
I first looked  at whether FICL made  it clear  to Mrs E the policy  was something she could 
choose and did actually choose because  she specifically complained  that she didnt  give her 
consent to the PPI being added to her loan account.   
Mrs Es PPI and loan were sold during a meeting with a representative in 1995.  I dont know  
what exactly was said to her during the sale  and Mrs E doesnt say anything about the PPI 
conversation that day. So Ive looked  at the documents which  were  or wouldve been 
completed at around that time to see what most  likely  happened.  
FICL has shown me a copy  of Mrs Es original  loan application signed  and dated by Mrs E 
on 4 July 1995. The section called Payment Protection Insurance  has been ticked. So I 
think this shows Mrs E wanted the PPI and by signing the application,  she consented to 
have it added to her loan.
FICL says the sale was non-advised but Mrs E cant remember if she received any advice. I 
havent seen any evidence on the documents to show that the policy was tailor made for 
Mrs E, so I agree that the sale probably  was non-advised. 
For non-advised sales, FICL only had to give Mrs E enough information which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so she could  make her own decision. I then looked at her financial 
circumstances to see if she had any need for the cover:   
Mrs E was eligible  for the PPI cover in 1995.
Mrs E told us she could get six months  full pay followed  by six months half pay from her 
employer if she was off sick.
  
So I think Mrs E couldve  needed  cover if she couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The benefit from the PPI would have given her some income to make the 
loan repayments.  It wouldve  lasted longer than her employee benefits which   although 
good  would only last for as long as she worked  with that employer.  So I think  she wouldve 
thought the PPI was of some value  to her.
Ref: DRN15244032I dont know how the things not covered by the policy (the exclusions)  were  explained to 
Mrs E. But I dont think she wouldve  been  affected by the main ones. So even if shed  been  
given detailed information about the exclusions, I dont think it wouldve changed her 
decision about buying the policy.
Ive seen that the loan agreement set out the cost of the loan and the cost of the PPI policy,  
the interest to be paid on it, together with the monthly cost. So the costs of the PPI were  set 
out clearly. I dont know what was said to her during the meeting but Mrs E did sign the loan 
agreement with all the costs figures  on it. So I think the PPI cost  including the interest 
element  was shown  on the documents. And, having decided  she wanted  the PPI and 
chose to have  it, I dont think any more detailed information about the cost and benefits  
would have changed her mind  about  buying the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs E probably was aware  the policy was optional 
and agreed to have  it added  to her account.  And that any more detailed information  was 
unlikely to have  prevented  her from buying  it. This means that I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1524403