K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not pay her the correct  amount when  it sold her 
repossessed property.
background
Mrs B had a buy to let mortgage with Lloyds. She did not make payments as required. In 
November 2017  Lloyds obtained a court  possession  order.  The property was repossessed  
and sold. Lloyds sent Mrs B the net proceeds  of £132.24. Mrs B disputes  this amount and is 
unhappy about the way it was paid to her.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that Lloyds  had 
provided a closing statement. There was no set format for this. The property had sold for 
less than Mrs B had paid for it. Lloyds had given  this service copies of invoices for legal and 
management fees. And it seems Lloyds had challenged  some  of the legal costs and paid 
less than had been invoiced.  Lloyds had paid the residual money to Mrs Bs bank account as 
she had asked rather than to the Court.
Mrs B did not agree  and wanted  her complaint to be reviewed. She is unhappy that the 
closing statement does  not have a signature and thinks  it is not legal. She maintains that as 
she put her own money into the property then there should be money to come  back to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The court order  gave Lloyds possession of the property and made  a money  judgement for 
the outstanding balance  of the mortgage.  Under  the terms and conditions of her mortgage 
Mrs B was liable for the expenses of any legal  proceedings and for the costs of recovering 
any money owed.
Lloyds has provided  invoices relating to the costs of maintaining the property after 
repossession and for valuation, estate agent and legal fees. Interest continued  to accrue  
until the date the property  was sold. I dont agree with Mrs B that the format  of the closing 
document its given  to her means  that the information is invalid or false  as she thinks. As our 
adjudicator has said there  is no set format for this. Mrs B has not provided any substantive 
challenge for any of the items  on that document. I understand  her disappointment that the 
money she put into the purchase when she bought the property has gone. But the sale price 
of £87,500 was less than the amount she paid. And there were  arrears on the mortgage  that 
built up when she did not make all the required payment plus the costs  Ive mentioned.
Ive no basis to find that the closing statement is incorrect. I fully understand Mrs Bs concern 
at the amount she received back.  But I dont find Lloyds has made a mistake and I can see it 
paid the money  in line with the last instructions  shed provided to it.
Ref: DRN11502972my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150297