K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained about the way that Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) dealt with 
a claim he made for unemployment on a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background 
I have attached my provisional decision from January 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was thinking of partly  upholding  Mr Ks 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Legal  & General responded to say that it accepted my 
provisional decision. Mr K has said that he doesnt agree with my provisional decision.  I will 
address his further comments  below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr K has reiterated what he says he was told when 
he first bought the policy in 2000. But although L&G is the underwriter of the policy, it wasnt 
responsible for selling it to Mr K. As previously mentioned,  this decision is only looking at 
whether L&G dealt with Mr Ks unemployment  claim appropriately, according to the policy  
terms and conditions.
Mr K says that £50 compensation is insulting. Im sorry he feels like that and, in awarding 
that amount,  my intention was certainly not to be insulting. Rather, the amount of £50 is to 
reflect the problems  that Mr K experienced initially  when first trying to find out why L&G said 
it was only going  to pay £379  per month  for his claim. I dont consider that the consequences  
to Mr K were severe enough to warrant a higher  compensation figure. This is because  L&G 
dealt with Mr Ks complaint about  this appropriately  and did then provide an explanation  for 
the lower benefit  amount. And significantly,  L&G told Mr K that it was actually going to pay 
him £515 per month, and it did this in advance of any claim payment actually being due. Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mr K has said about the impact on him and his wife, but on 
balance I am of the view that £50 is an appropriate award  for the level of stress and 
inconvenience they suffered.
Mr K has said that he is unable to cancel the policy. However I dont believe this is the case.  
The policy is set up in two parts. The main  part is for accident and sickness and the 
secondary part, which people could choose to add as an extra, is for unemployment. As I 
understand it, Mr K enquired to L&G about  cancelling the policy,  or at least the accident and 
sickness part of it, and believes  he was told he couldnt. As L&Gs  final response letter 
explains, that was partly true at the time. As the unemployment benefit is an add-on to the 
main policy,  it is possible  to cancel  that part of the policy on its own. But it is not possible to 
cancel the main policy and just keep  the unemployment part. At the time that Mr K enquired 
about cancelling,  he had an open unemployment  claim. So he wouldnt have been able to 
cancel the unemployment part of the policy without it affecting  his claim. But that is not to 
say that he cant  now cancel the policy. Indeed, L&G said to Mr K in its final response letter  
that: Once you return to work, you may want to consider your options and whether the policy 
remains suitable for your needs. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that Mr K isnt able to 
cancel the entire policy if thats what he wishes to do.
Ref: DRN19254062Mr K has provided a list of things  that he wants to happen, including  that I change  the 
outcome of my provisional decision. However  Mr K hasnt provided any new information  that 
would cause me to change  my view. Therefore, for the reasons Ive explained, I stand by the 
findings in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I partly  uphold Mr Ks complaint. I havent found  anything wrong with the 
way that Legal & General  Insurance Limited dealt  with the claim in terms of the benefit 
amount and deferment period.
But Legal  & General Insurance Limited should  have paid benefit  under the policy for three 
days of unemployment.  So it should  pay this to Mr K now, plus simple interest at 8% on this 
amount, from the date the amount became payable to the date when payment is actually 
made. It should also pay Mr K £50 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19254063COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr K has complained about the way that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) dealt with a claim 
he made for unemployment on a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr K took out the policy in 2000 when  he arranged his mortgage.  In March 2018 he was made 
redundant and so contacted L&G to make a claim for unemployment. L&G accepted  the claim but 
said that the benefit payable  was £379 per month instead of the £515 per month that Mr K was 
expecting. L&G also said that the claim would only be payable after the period in which  Mr K got pay 
in lieu of notice came  to an end.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagrees  with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has a separate complaint with this service about  the policy being  mis-sold  in 2000. To be clear, 
this decision is only looking at whether L&G dealt with Mr Ks claim appropriately  in 2018.
At the time that Mr K arranged the policy, it covered a mortgage repayment of £515 per month. But 
the policy  was set up to provide a variable benefit based on the prevailing stabilised interest rate. So 
if, in 2018, interest rates were higher than they were in 2000, Mr K would  have received  more than 
£515. As interest rates had reduced, L&G calculated  the benefit amount at £379.  I am satisfied that 
L&G applied the policy  terms correctly, and accurately  calculated the amount,  when assessing  Mr Ks 
claim.
In any event, when Mr K complained to L&G about the reduced  amount, and how he couldnt get a 
straight answer about how the figure of £379  had been  reached,  L&G told Mr K that it had decided to 
pay a benefit of £515  per month. Ive seen the complaint response letter from L&G dated  4 June 2018 
which says this has been  done  as a gesture of goodwill. Mr K says that someone at L&G told him that 
they were paying the amount because it was the right thing to do. As I understand it, Mr K is 
unhappy that hes been given different reasons for L&Gs decision  to pay the higher amount.
Ultimately I am not too concerned about L&Gs reasons  for deciding to pay a benefit  of £515 per 
month (and I dont  necessarily think that a gesture  of goodwill is at odds with it being the right thing to 
do  it seems to me to be all part of the same decision making process). I am satisfied that, under the 
terms of the policy, L&G was entitled to pay Mr K £379 per month for the unemployment claim. So I 
think that L&G has acted  reasonably in deciding  to pay him more than it strictly  had to.
Mr Ks last day at work was 31 March  2018. But his employer gave him pay in lieu of notice that 
covered him up until 30 June  2018. There was a four week deferment  period on the policy (during  
which no benefit was payable), so L&G told Mr K that the claim would be payable from 29 July 2018. 
Mr K is unhappy  with this. He doesnt think the period when his employer was giving him pay in lieu of 
notice is relevant and so thinks that the claim  should be payable from May 2018.
The policy terms state that: We will not pay any benefit for days for which  you receive payment 
instead of working your notice (payment in lieu of notice). As our adjudicator mentioned, 
unemployment policies are designed to cover loss of earning. Mr K was still being paid between  31 
March and 30 June, and so there was no loss of earnings  until 1 July 2018. I am satisfied that L&G 
Ref: DRN19254064has applied the policy terms correctly in declining  to cover the period when Mr K was receiving  pay in 
lieu of notice.
L&G told Mr K in a letter dated 4 June 2018 that it was going to pay a benefit  of £515. This was in 
advance of any claim payments actually  being due to Mr K. So at the point that the claim would have 
started to pay out, it would  have been  at the level that Mr K had originally  expected. 
Mr K would like compensation for the stress he feels that L&G caused him and his wife. The 
difference between what L&G had to pay him under the terms of the policy, and what it decided to pay 
him, amounted to £136 per month. Our adjudicator thought that would  be enough  to compensate Mr K 
for the initial problems he had when trying to get an explanation about the benefit amount. 
I agree with our adjudicator that the higher monthly benefit would have been more  than enough  to 
compensate Mr K, had the claim been paid out. But weve  recently  found  out that Mr K ended  the 
claim because  he found a new job, and no payment  was made to him.
In light of this, I do think that L&G should pay some compensation for the problems Mr K experienced 
initially, when he was unable to get an answer about how the benefit  amount was being  calculated.  I 
think £50 would be an appropriate amount for the distress and inconvenience  he suffered.
Also, Mr Ks claim  became payable on 29 July 2018. As I understand it, Mr K started his new job on 2 
August 2018.  So, although  the claim  ended at Mr Ks request, there were three days  when the claim 
was payable. Therefore L&G should also pay the benefit  amount for these  three day, and it should 
add interest  of 8% on this amount, from the period  when the amount became  payable  to the date 
when payment is actually made to Mr K.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I partly uphold Mr Ks complaint. I havent  found anything wrong with 
the way that Legal & General Insurance Limited dealt  with the claim in terms of the benefit amount 
and deferment period. But I do think that Legal  & General  Insurance Limited should pay Mr K £50 for 
distress and inconvenience  and pay the claim  amount due plus interest at 8%.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1925406