K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  about the service  she received  from Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited,  
trading as Call Assist,  following a claim against  the breakdown section of her motor  
insurance policy. 
background
In October  2018, Miss Ps car broke down on a dual carriageway. She rang Call Assist  but it 
couldnt find her policy  on its system.  That was because  it had entered  her cars registration  
incorrectly. 
Miss P says that she was alone  on a dual carriageway with barely any phone charge. The 
police arrived and arranged the recovery of Miss Ps car. She had to pay cash and, as she 
didnt have any, her parents had to come to her assistance. 
Miss P paid £150  for the recovery, which Call Assist refunded. It also offered Miss P 
compensation of £30. She didnt think that was enough. 
Our investigator thought that Call Assist should  pay Miss P compensation of £120 in addition 
to its offer of £30, so £150 in total. 
Miss P agreed with the investigators view but Call Assist didnt. It said when Miss P phoned, 
it gave her safety advice.  Call Assist said that whilst it recorded Miss Ps car registration 
incorrectly, the police were on the scene 20 minutes later.  It thought that the compensation 
of £30 was reasonable. It had refunded the cost of the third party  recovery.
Call Assist later offered  additional compensation of £20, bringing its total offer to £50. Miss P 
didnt accept that. As there was no agreement  between the parties, the complaint was 
passed to me, am ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Call Assist  made an error in that it recorded  Miss Ps car 
registration incorrectly, so it couldnt  find her policy on its system. It subsequently  left 
messages for Miss P. Approximately 30 minutes  after Miss Ps initial call, Call Assist left a 
message on her voice mail saying that it now had all her details. Miss P didnt get that 
message, as her phone was out of charge. So she didnt know that Call Assist could now 
help her. In any event,  matters had moved on as the police intervened  and arranged  
recovery, presumably because of the dangerous position Miss P was in. 
Call Assist has refunded the recovery charge.  The remaining  matter  for me to consider  is the 
appropriate level of compensation  for distress  or inconvenience Miss P suffered because of 
Call Assists  error. 
Ref: DRN17330712Ive no doubt that this was a very worrying situation for Miss P. She was alone on a dual 
carriageway. Call Assists error meant  that it couldnt  start to help her at the earliest 
opportunity. Miss P says she had to wait somewhere between  half an hour and an hour 
before she was rescued by the police. She had to get her parents to bring cash to pay for the 
recovery.  
In all the circumstances, I dont think that Call Assists initial  offer of £30 or its revised offer of 
£50 is fair. I dont think it takes into account the very real stress Miss P suffered as a result  of 
Call Assists  error. It may well be that Call Assist  couldnt have got assistance  to Miss P 
sooner than the police  but Miss P was left in the position of thinking that Call Assist couldnt 
help her. For a short while, she didnt know that any help was coming. She was alone and in 
some danger. I think Miss P found  that stressful.   
I agree  with our investigator that fair compensation for Miss Ps distress and inconvenience  
is a total of £150. Its not clear to me whether Call Assist has already paid Miss P the £30 it 
offered. If it has, it may deduct that from the compensation payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint. I now require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited  to pay Miss P compensation of £150 in relation to her distress  and 
inconvenience. As Ive said,  if its already paid Miss P compensation of £30 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience, it may deduct that from the payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1733071