K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage. 
I can see Ms D has made a few complaints to us about PPI. Just to be clear,  this decision is 
about the PPI that was sold to Ms D with her mortgage that started in August 2003. 
I can also see that when  PPI was sold, Lloyds was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
background
In February 2019,  I issued  a provisional decision in this matter in which I said I didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld. Neither  party  has provided me with any further information. 
In their original complaint,  Ms Ds representatives said that she had an insurance  policy  
already in place  and she didnt need PPI. Our adjudicator asked for more information  about 
this policy, but didnt receive a reply. I repeated that request in my provisional  decision, but 
there has been no response. 
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
As neither party has provided me with any further  information, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. Without any specific information about  the insurance  policy  Ms D 
claimed to have, I cant say that it would have covered  the same things as the PPI. And so I 
think the PPI was probably suitable  for her needs. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms D, but it follows that I havent upheld her complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. I dont require it to take any further  
action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11924832COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a mortgage.  
I can see Ms D has made  a few complaints to us about PPI. Just to be clear, this decision is about  the 
PPI that was sold to Ms D with her mortgage that started in August 2003. 
I can also see that when PPI was sold, Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester.  To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
background
In May 2003,  Ms D applied for a mortgage from Lloyds when she moved house.  She was sold a PPI 
policy at the same  time. The mortgage (and subsequently the PPI cover)  started with effect from 
August 2003.  
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. The matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision.  I asked our adjudicator  to make further  enquiries of Ms D and her representatives. 
Unfortunately, at the time of writing, no reply  has been received.  In their response to this provisional 
decision, I strongly encourage Ms D and her representatives to provide the information  I have asked 
for, which is set out below.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
  
Based on the information Ive got, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below. 
It seems likely that the PPI was sold during a meeting between the parties. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting, so to help me decide what is likely to have  happened, Ive looked at what  Ms D 
remembers about  the sale. And Ive also looked at the paperwork thats available from the time.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether Ms D would have known the PPI was optional and she didnt 
have to buy it if she didnt want it. From the mortgage application form,  I can see that Ms D ticked  a 
box to say that she wanted  to apply for PPI cover and that she had completed a separate application  
form for the policy. There was an equally prominent box for Ms D to have  ticked  if she didnt want PPI. 
I think  the wording  on that form is sufficiently clear to indicate that this policy wasnt a condition of the 
mortgage. And so I think its likely that the person selling the cover would have  also made that clear. 
I can also see that there were some issues with Lloyds  setting the PPI up for Ms D. And they wrote to 
her to ask her for a cheque to cover her premiums  shortly after the policy started. I dont  think Ms D 
would have sent that cheque  if she didnt want PPI. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So that means Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable  
for Ms Ds needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable cover, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought about what weve been told about Ms Ds personal  
circumstances at the time she bought PPI. 
I can see that if Ms D had to make a claim on the PPI, her mortgage repayments  would have been 
covered for up to 12 months for each claim. Ms D told us she would have received six months full pay 
from her employer  if she became unwell. And so it follows that the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to the means she already had in place  from work.  
Ref: DRN11924833Ms D also told us that she had some  savings she could have used to pay her mortgage if she was out 
of work.  But as this mortgage was secured on her home, it was at risk if she fell behind  with her 
payments. And so I think she could have used her savings on her other essential  expenditure  at what 
would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. 
In the initial PPI questionnaire  and again  in the response to our adjudicators  view, Ms Ds 
representatives said she had alternative insurance policies to cover  her if she was out of work. And 
its disappointing  that we havent had a reply. As this could affect the outcome of her complaint, it 
would be helpful if the representatives could supply  the information we have  asked for below.  But in 
the absence of any information about an alternative insurance policy, I cant  say that the potential 
existence of another policy would make the PPI Lloyds sold unsuitable for her. 
Ms D told us that she didnt have any medical  conditions when PPI was sold to her. So I dont think  
shed have been caught by any of the policys exclusions  about medical  conditions. And I havent  
seen anything  unusual about  her employment  circumstances that would have stopped her from 
making a successful claim if she needed to. With all of this in mind, I think the cover probably was 
suitable for her needs.  
Lloyds also had to give Ms D enough information  about the PPI so she could decide  for herself if it 
was a good fit for her. I accept it is possible that Lloyds  didnt  tell Ms D everything it should have done 
about the cover. But I dont think more or better information would  have put her off taking it out. I say 
this because although Ms D doesnt probably now remember, I think she chose to buy PPI at the time.  
And Ive set out above how I think PPI could have been helpful for her if she couldnt work. 
It follows that based on the information I currently have, I dont think  this complaint should be upheld. 
However, that could change depending on any additional  information the parties  are able to provide. 
Further information required 
To help my consideration of this complaint, it would be helpful for Ms D and those representing  her to 
provide additional information about the additional insurance policy they say Ms D had. In particular:  
a)What did the policy cover?  
b)How much was the consumer covered for by the policy? 
c)How long would a successful claim  pay out for? 
d)Was there a deferral period  if yes, how long. 
A copy of any policy documents  would  also greatly assist.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information I receive  from the parties, I dont currently intend to uphold this 
complaint. I encourage  Ms D and her representatives  to respond to the request we have made  for 
further information. I now invite all parties to submit  any further evidence or comments they wish me 
to consider by 8 March 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1192483