K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time)  mis-sold
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to Lloyds throughout the complaint, although Im 
aware that they were trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time.
In summary,  I didnt think Lloyds mis-sold the PPI to Mrs L for the following reasons:
I thought Lloyds made Mrs L aware she had a choice  in taking PPI, and she 
subsequently chose to take it.
Lloyds say it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs L. So it needed  to make sure 
the policy was suitable for her  and I thought  it was.
Lloyds also needed to give Mrs L enough information about the PPI so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted it. I thought it was possible that the information  
Lloyds gave Mrs L about the PPI might not have been as clear as it should  have. But 
I didnt think clearer information wouldve  stopped Mrs L from buying the PPI, given 
her circumstances at the time.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision,  so Ive assumed  it doesnt have anything 
further it would like me to consider.
Mrs L responded to say that she didnt agree with my provisional findings  and made  the 
below main points.  I have explained most of these  points in my provisional  findings, and so I 
wont explain  why these  specific  points  dont make a difference to the outcome. But I will 
explain some  of the other points Mrs L has raised  in more detail.
Lloyds didnt get her consent before adding the cover. And she was not offered a 
choice in taking  the cover. She says this is further  shown because she didnt claim 
when she could  have.  And she didnt cancel  is when she became self-employed.
PPI wasnt on her mortgage statements. 
Mrs L says she would have got six weeks full pay from her employer if she was sick. 
Shes said that this is not longer than the PPI and she would  have had no way to pay 
the mortgage.
She had PPI with a different mortgage and it didnt cover the mortgage costs so she 
wouldnt have agreed to take out this cover.
She couldnt afford the PPI payments  and she had other debts she wanted to pay.
Lloyds didnt tell her that they got commission for selling the PPI and it didnt tell her 
she could make a claim on the cover. 
Ref: DRN13338452my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs L. But Ill 
provide more explanation  into some of the points shes raised below.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, theres very little information  available  from the 
sale for me to know what happened when this policy was sold.  So its difficult  to know how 
the PPI was presented to Mrs L. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I cant  fairly say 
that Lloyds didnt give Mrs L a choice in buying PPI  or it was added  without her consent.
The PPI policy was separate  to the mortgage  itself, so its possible that it wasnt  on her 
mortgage statements. And I cant say that Lloyds has done anything  wrong  in the PPI policy  
not showing on her mortgage statements.
Ive taken into account what Mrs L has said about her sick pay. And having done so, the PPI 
policy would have paid out for a longer period of time than her sick pay would. So I think the 
PPI could have  provided a useful benefit to Mrs L if shed have been off work sick for a 
while.
Mrs L has said that she wouldnt  have  agreed  to the PPI because she had a policy to cover a 
different mortgage  and it didnt cover her mortgage costs  so she wouldnt have chosen to 
take it out again with this mortgage.  I cant comment  on what happened with Mrs Ls other 
PPI policy. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I think its more  likely that Mrs L chose 
to take out this cover. Based on the information  Ive seen,  it seems to me as though  this PPI 
policy would have covered Mrs Ls monthly mortgage repayments   so I still think  this cover  
could have been useful to her.
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think the PPI was unaffordable. I appreciate that Mrs 
L might have wanted to keep costs down, but this isnt the same as not being able to afford  
the cover. Ive seen a copy of a budget analysis form from the time  and this, in my 
opinion, doesnt  show to me that the PPI was unaffordable. The consequences of Mrs L not 
keeping up with her mortgage repayments could have been serious. So I think the benefit of 
the PPI policy  may have  outweighed the cost to her if something were to have  gone  wrong.
Mrs L complains  that she wasnt told about  the amount of commission Lloyds might have got 
for selling her a PPI policy.  But this doesnt change  my opinion of Mrs Ls complaint. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN13338453But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Lloyds has given me information that shows Mrs Ls mortgage was taken out in 1995 and 
ended in 2006. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
Id like to reassure Mrs L that Ive taken on board all of her comments when coming  to a 
decision on this complaint, but the points she has raised dont change my decision on the 
outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13338454copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading  as Cheltenham  & Gloucester at the time)  mis-sold
her a mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the PPI and it would have 
covered her for up to 12 months in the event that she couldnt work through accident, sickness or if 
she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint.  Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case. 
I dont currently think Mrs Ls PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This policy was sold a long time ago, and because  of this, neither party has been able to give much 
information about how this policy was sold. But I dont find this surprising or unusual given how long 
ago the sale took place.
Mrs L says she thinks it likely she was sold the PPI in 1997  when she transferred the equity of the 
property into her sole name. Lloyds also agree that this was likely  to be the case. 
Mrs L says she didnt  know  she had a PPI policy. Lloyds say it would have got Mrs Ls consent before  
it added the cover  and it would have made it clear to her it was optional.  Because neither party 
agree on this point, I have  to base my decision based on what I think is most  likely to have happened.
Because there isnt much  evidence to support what Lloyds has said, Ive also thought about  what  I 
know about how Lloyds  generally sold policies around this time, and having done so, it would  have 
normally made the optional nature of the cover clear  and it would have got consent before adding the 
cover. I havent seen  anything to make me think that Lloyds didnt  follow its normal  sales process  on 
this occasion.
Ive also thought  carefully about what Mrs L has said;  in that the cover was added without her 
knowing about it. But for me to be able to agree with what Mrs L has said about the sale, I have to 
think it more likely that someone at Lloyds deliberately  added the PPI without her knowing about it. 
Although I agree this is possible, I dont think its more likely. Ive also given thought  to the fact that 
the PPI was sold many  years ago, and although I dont dispute that Mrs L may not remember  the sale 
of the PPI, memories  can and do fade with time.
So having thought about  everything Ive read and been told, on balance, I think its more likely that 
Lloyds gave Mrs L a choice in buying PPI. And I think  she chose to take it. 
Lloyds say it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs L, so it had to check  it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
Ref: DRN13338455Mrs L was eligible for the PPI. And I havent seen anything to make me think  that she would have 
been affected  by any of the main things  that might have made it difficult  for her to make a successful 
claim on the cover.
Mrs L said she would have got some  sick pay from her employer if she was unwell.  Shes  also said 
she wouldnt  have had any other ways  of being  able to make  repayments to the mortgage  if she 
wasnt working. The PPI policy would have paid out on top of Mrs Ls sick pay. And based on what  Ms 
L has told us about her sick pay, I think the PPI would have  paid out for longer than her PPI would 
have lasted.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mrs L, so its possible it could have dont this 
better. But I havent seen anything to make me think the PPI was unaffordable  to Mrs L when she 
took it out. Or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. And given that the PPI was 
designed to protect what I presume would  be one of Mrs Ls most  valuable  assets, her home, I think 
she could have found the PPI a useful benefit. So I dont  think better  information about the cost of the 
cover would have put Mrs L off taking it.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mrs L. Lloyds also had to make sure it gave her enough 
information about the PPI so she could decide for herself if she wanted to buy it. I agree  that its 
possible the information might not have been as clear as it should have been.  But given what Ive said 
about the cover being suitable for her, I dont think better information  would have put her off buying 
the cover.  
Ive taken into account Mrs Ls comments, including what shes  said about  having  an operation and 
being too sick to work  shes also said she was made redundant. Mrs L says she would  have made a 
claim on the policy had she known it was in place. I agree that these  actions might show that Mrs L 
wasnt aware she had the cover in place at the time these events  took place. But I cant agree that 
this means the PPI was sold  it could be that Mrs L had forgotten the sale taking  place, given  that 
buying an insurance policy isnt a particularly memorable experience.
Mrs L has also said she was unhappy that Lloyds  didnt tell her she could make a claim on the cover. 
But Lloyds didnt have  an ongoing obligation to let Mrs L know she had cover in place. So I still cant 
fairly say Lloyds did anything wrong  here.
Mrs L says she also became self-employed  after she took out the cover, so it might have been difficult 
for her to make a successful  unemployment claim on the cover. But she became self-employed after 
the PPI was taken out, so I dont think Mrs L becoming self-employed after the sale means  that the 
cover was mis-sold. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I explained above, Im not intending  to uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
I now invite  Mrs L and Lloyds to give me any further information they want me to consider before 
I make  my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 26 March  2019.
Ref: DRN1333845