K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank plc failed  to make reasonable adjustments  to take 
account of her disability.  She says shes paid excessive overdraft fees as a result.  Ms M also 
complains about  poor service from HSBC in its communications  with her.
background
Ms M was diagnosed  with a disability in 2014,  which shes told us affects her ability to 
manage money. She applied to HSBC for an overdraft, but was turned  down  by the bank.  
HSBC then charged Ms M unarranged  overdraft  fees, which  she considered was unfair. She 
wants HSBC to either give her an arranged  overdraft  or stop charging unarranged overdraft 
fees. Ms M also considers HSBC should  refund fees shes paid and pay compensation.
Ms M raised her complaint with HSBC but says she struggled to get any meaningful 
response. She considers  the banks communication with her has been poor.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
HSBCs assessments  of Ms Ms overdraft applications were carried out correctly,  and she 
didnt consider it was unfair for the bank to turn them down.
The adjudicator wasnt able to reasonably conclude that HSBC was aware of Ms Ms 
disability when she first applied for an arranged overdraft.  But even if it had known about her 
condition, the adjudicator  wasnt  persuaded that HSBC wouldve been  obliged to 
accommodate Ms Ms disability by offering an arranged overdraft or removing unarranged 
overdraft fees. 
The adjudicator was also satisfied that the unarranged overdraft  fees had been properly 
applied in line with the accounts  terms and conditions. She thought  HSBC  had treated Ms M 
fairly by refunding  some of the charges when she told it about the financial difficulty  she was 
experiencing.
The adjudicator acknowledged there had been  a lot of correspondence  between Ms M and 
HSBC when Ms M had raised this issue. She considered the bank had tried various  forms of 
communication to make sure Ms M received its messages, and had apologised when its 
efforts fell below expectations. So the adjudicator didnt think  HSBC needed to do anything 
else. 
Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions. She said, in summary,  that she 
considered HSBC had discriminated against her under the Equality Act 2010. She 
considered the banks  actions had allowed it to charge excessive  unauthorised  overdraft  
fees. 
Ms M also referred  to a recent  report by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which  
identified vulnerable customers as paying a disproportionate amount of unarranged overdraft 
fees. Ms M considered the FCAs report meant  HSBCs charges were illegal.
Ms M said she hadnt received the banks messages, and that it had failed to properly 
investigate this when  shed told it about  the problems she was having. 
Ms M asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN19560572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms M has said throughout  her complaint that she considers  HSBC  discriminated against her 
under the Equality Act. She says its failed to recognise her disability and make reasonable 
adjustments to accommodate it.
As the adjudicator has explained, its not our role to say whether a business  has breached 
the Equality Act. Thats a matter for the courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
To decide that, I have to take a number of things  into account including relevant law and 
what I consider is good industry practice.  This includes, amongst other  things, the Equality 
Act. So although its for the courts, rather than our service, to say whether or not HSBC has 
breached this Act, Im required to take it into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. That includes thinking about what a court would  likely  decide if Ms M were  to 
make a discrimination claim  under  the Equality Act. 
Ms M says she applied for an overdraft in late 2014,  but was turned down. She says she told 
the bank about her disability in January 2015 when  she took a copy of her disability  
assessment to an HSBC  branch. Ms M says she applied for an overdraft again at that time, 
but this was also turned down.
HSBCs records  suggest Ms M applied for an overdraft  in 2013 and 2016. In addition, the 
bank says it doesnt have a record of the disability assessment  Ms M says she provided in 
2015. Its provided records of the contact it had with Ms M during 2015. 
From what  Ive seen and been  told, there isnt enough evidence  for me to safely  say that 
HSBC was aware of Ms Ms condition in early 2015.
As Im not persuaded that HSBC was aware of Ms Ms disability in 2015, there are no 
reasonable grounds on which I can find the bank failed to make reasonable adjustments to 
accommodate her condition at that time.
In May 2016  Ms M contacted HSBC and said:
Also, Ive repeatedly  approached HSBC to give me a small overdraft, but have been 
refusedCan you pleaseadvise me as to exactly why you cannot  provide me with a small 
overdraft? Im unsure  why its okay to charge me GBP60  worth of fees over two months,  
whilst refusing to give me a GBP100 overdraft for emergencies. 
Again, I cant  see that Ms M made HSBC aware of her condition at that time.  So Im not 
persuaded that the bank  was at fault for failing to make  reasonable adjustments  for her 
disability.
Ms M wrote to HSBC  again in April 2018,  after shed  been notified  about charges on her 
account. She said:
Ref: DRN19560573I have asked for a GBP500 overdraft you are fully aware  of this. Thirdly you currently  
supply me with an unauthorised overdraft of GBP500 knowing that I will need this buffer  
and that my need  to access it on occasion  will result in considerable earnings for you. This 
practice is very underhand and clearly  focused  on exploiting my situationyou are aware 
that I am [disability] and that my disability requires you to make reasonable adjustments  
particularly with regard  to communicating clearly and fairly with me
As a result of Ms Ms message HSBC refunded charges of £65, but said it wouldnt  refund 
any future charges  unless  there  was a bank error.
I think at this point it was clear that Ms M had made  HSBC aware of her disability.  So Ive 
thought about what it wouldve been  reasonable for the bank  to do in light of the relevant 
legislation, the information it had, and whether  that wouldve made any difference to Ms Ms 
position.
the Equality Act
The Equality  Act says that people with protected characteristics mustnt  be discriminated 
against. The protected characteristics include disability. 
Ms M says her disability  means she has difficulty managing money. She considers  HSBC 
shouldve provided  her with an arranged overdraft,  as this wouldve helped her manage her 
money without excessive fees. I can see why Ms M might  reach  that conclusion, particularly 
in light of the FCA report shes referred  to.
If Ms M brought a claim of discrimination  against HSBC, I think its unlikely that a court  would 
decide the bank had directly discriminated against  her. Thats because even where a 
customer is suffering from a disability, Im not persuaded  that alone means a bank is obliged  
to provide an  overdraft.  
An overdraft is a form of credit,  and its appropriate  for the lender to carry out a full review  of 
a customers circumstances to decide  whether the lending  is suitable. HSBC would need to 
carry out that review,  whether or not the customer has a disability. 
It seems  from the available evidence that HSBC couldnt offer Ms M an authorised overdraft  
as she didnt meet its lending  criteria. From what Ive seen and been told, it seems as though 
there may have been problems with her credit history.  I can see Ms M told us shes had 
problems with her credit  rating before. So this would have  affected  her ability to get further  
credit, such  as an authorised overdraft - irrespective of her disability.
Overall, Ive seen nothing to suggest  that HSBC  didnt  assess Ms Ms overdraft applications  
fairly when  she applied in 2013  and 2016. And in light of my comments  above, Im not 
persuaded that it was unreasonable for the bank not to offer her an overdraft when it 
became aware  of her disability in 2018.
Ms M says that alternatively, HSBC shouldnt  have charged unarranged overdraft fees. The 
terms and conditions of Ms Ms account  meant she was charged when she used an 
unarranged overdraft. I understand why Ms M is unhappy about those charges, but Im 
satisfied that they were  properly applied in line with the terms of the account.
Ref: DRN19560574The only way Ms M couldve stopped  those charges completely wouldve been if HSBC 
suspended them or if it converted her account to a basic bank account with no overdraft 
facility (whether arranged  or unarranged). But it was under no obligation to refund or 
suspend interest and charges, even if it was aware of Ms Ms disability and her financial 
difficulties. And converting her account  to a basic bank  account would have an impact 
beyond just stopping  interest and charges because of the type of account  it is.
 
I cant say if a court might consider HSBC discriminated against Ms M. But if that was the 
case, that doesnt automatically mean I have to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I have to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking relevant  law, amongst other things, 
into account. One of the other  things  I have to take into account is what I consider  to be 
good industry practice. In Ms Ms circumstances, good practice may have been to move  her 
to a basic bank  account.
But had it done  so, HSBC wouldnt have been  able to make payments on Ms Ms behalf  if 
she didnt have enough money in the account. In those circumstances its possible Ms M 
wouldve been charged by the intended  recipients for failed payments. Or she might not 
have been able to complete transactions that were necessary for her day-to-day living  - such 
as transport costs. Again,  this would be the situation  irrespective of Ms Ms disability.
But when Ms M contacted  HSBC in 2018,  in addition to making the bank aware of her 
disability, I consider she also made it aware  that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So 
the bank shouldve treated her positively and sympathetically while she tried to manage her 
finances. 
The bank refunded some of the overdraft charges shed paid when it became aware of her 
circumstances, to help her break the cycle of charges. I think the bank acted positively and 
sympathetically by making  the refund, and I think its actions were  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Im not persuaded that the bank was obliged to do anything more.  
Ms M considers the FCAs report means  HSBCs  charges are illegal. But Im not persuaded 
thats the case. The report suggested banks need to move to a different charging structure, 
but it didnt say that previous charges were  illegal. The FCA didnt say banks had to refund 
previous charges, and it didnt suggest that any required  action was retrospective. So I dont  
consider the FCAs  report means HSBC has to refund  further charges to Ms M.
HSBCs communication  with Ms M
Ive noted everything  Ms M has said about HSBCs communication with her, and I can 
appreciate her frustration  when she felt the matter  was being ignored.  I can understand why 
she might  consider HSBC  should  fully investigate why she wasnt receiving its messages.
I dont doubt Ms M when  she says she didnt receive  all the banks  communications.  But like 
the adjudicator,  on balance  Im satisfied that HSBC did what  it could to correspond  with her 
and that its letters and messages were sent. I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to 
hold HSBC responsible for Ms M not receiving them. That means I wont be asking the bank 
to investigate the matter  further as Ms M would like.
Im aware that Ms M has put time and effort into her complaint, and I realise  that my decision 
will be disappointing  to her. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that there 
are any reasonable  grounds on which I can uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN19560575my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1956057