K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) isnt willing to extend  her interest only 
mortgage which ended in December 2018.  She would like more  time to be able to sell her 
property in order to pay off her outstanding mortgage. She also says that her mortgage  was 
mis-sold to her.
background
Ms M has an interest  only mortgage with BOI. This mortgage was due to be repaid in 
December 2018.
Ms M has said she has been trying to sell her property since March 2018 and says she has 
been doing all she can for this to happen.  But she says she believes the current climate is 
causing slow sales in her area.
Ms M contacted BOI and spoke to one of their advisers. They  said they wouldnt recommend 
that Ms M proceeded  with an official two year extension as she would need to take a new 
interest rate and if she sold her property within that period of time, she would pay an early 
repayment charge  (ERC).
But they did say they would give Ms M a six month grace period so that Ms M can try and 
sell her property.  They  said they would monitor the situation on a monthly basis  and would  
possibly extend  the period of grace after the six months if Ms M still hadnt sold her property. 
They said they would also like to be given  authorisation to speak to the estate agent  in order 
to keep up to date with how the sale of the property was progressing.
Ms M wasnt happy with this as she is still worried that she may not sell her property within 
that time and she wanted BOI to give her a longer period  of grace which  would give her 
some peace  of mind. As she wasnt happy, she brought the complaint  to our service  where  it 
was looked at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator thought that BOI should give Ms M a period of grace for 12 months  from 
when the term ended.  He also pointed out that Ms M had some health conditions  which  
should be taken  into account. Our investigator didnt  think that BOI speaking  to the estate 
agent was unreasonable  and suggested that both BOI and Ms M kept in touch with each 
other while the sale was going through.
BOI didnt  agree.  They said they agreed that they would  provide a period of grace for six 
months but believed that a 12 month period  of grace  wasnt necessary or a reasonable 
adjustment. They said they were aware  of Ms Ms health conditions but didnt believe this 
would affect her ability to manage the sale of the property. 
BOI did confirm that they would continue to work  with Ms M to reach  an amicable solution 
and would find it unreasonable for them to take any further action against her while she was 
trying to sell the property. However, they said that if the mortgage isnt repaid, it is a breach 
of contract  and they would continue to monitor the situation, but that they reserved the right 
to take any action they believed was necessary.
As they disagreed with what the investigator  had said, they asked  for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been  passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN18610642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly  looked into Ms Ms concerns that the mortgage was mis-sold. Ms Ms mortgage 
was taken out on a non-advised basis which means  that BOI didnt have to check that the 
mortgage was suitable to her needs. It would  have been up to Ms M to consider the type of 
mortgage she wanted to take out based on her circumstances at the time.
Ive reviewed the mortgage application form that Ms M signed  when she took out the 
mortgage in 2008 along with BOIs underwriting notes. The application  form shows  that 
Ms M had a reasonable  income and that shed been  in her job for a while. And based  on 
how much  the property was worth  and how much of a mortgage she was taking out, the loan 
was equal to around 35% of what the property was worth.  
Ms M also signed a declaration to confirm her income when she completed the mortgage 
application. Under the applicable rules at the time, BOI didnt need to do any additional 
checks on Ms Ms income  if it was happy with what shed said in the application.
So overall, based on what Ive seen, I cant say that BOI mis-sold the mortgage  to Ms M.
With regard to the term of the mortgage  itself,  this ended in December 2018. I contacted BOI 
to establish if Ms M was now on a six month grace  period and BOI confirmed  that she was. I 
explained to BOI that Ms M appears to still be having some issues  selling her property and 
whether they would re-consider what our investigator had said,  and offer a 12 month period 
of grace  for Ms M to sell her property. 
BOI said they feel that their six month period  of grace and their reassurance that the matter 
will be reviewed  sympathetically should  a sale not be achieved within that period,  is 
sufficient. And they say its in line with how they would normally  treat customers in a similar 
position.
While I appreciate that BOI have given Ms M a period  of grace for six months,  I dont think  
this gives her enough reassurance that no action will be taken against her, if she doesnt sell 
her property within that period of time. This is something that BOI have said they are entitled 
to do, which  I understand. And even  though  BOI have said they will review the situation after 
the six months and possibly agree  another extension,  this doesnt put Ms Ms mind  at rest 
that no action  will be taken against  her.
Ms M says her property  was valued at £650,000  originally and I can see that its currently  on 
the market for £620,000. I would expect  her to take advice  from the estate agent who would 
be familiar with the current  climate  and can help Ms M with anything else she needs  to do. 
Ive seen various adverts to show which sites the property is being marketed on and believe 
that Ms M is doing everything she can to try and sell her property.
Ive thought about what BOI have said about  not being able to extend Ms Ms term officially 
unless she goes onto a two year product.  And that fact that if she does, she would need to 
pay an ERC to come  out of it - which undoubtedly  she would need to do because  wed hope 
that she would sell the property within that two year time period.
Ref: DRN18610643But BOI dont need to put Ms M on a new two year product. Her mortgage was on a tracker  
rate which ran to the end of the term. So if the term is extended formally, I think the current 
tracker rate could continue too. This would mean  that Ms M wouldnt need to pay an ERC 
when she pays off her outstanding  balance.  So I think this would  still be an option for Ms M if 
BOI were to consider it.
However, Im not asking  BOI to extend Ms Ms term by a further two years  because I do 
think they have  been sympathetic to her circumstances, but I dont agree that six months is 
long enough. I appreciate  Ms M has already been  trying to sell her property since March  
2018 and I understand why she might be concerned that it wont sell within  the next six 
months  because based on how things  have been going, I think  its likely it could take 
longer than that. So I agree with the investigator  that Ms M should be given 12 months 
period of grace to try and sell her property.
BOI have confirmed that Ms M is currently on a six month period of grace on the existing 
tracker that she was on. This means  Ms M isnt currently on a standard  variable rate (SVR) 
mortgage, which I know she was worried about. So while I appreciate that BOI have  
arranged this for six months  for Ms M, I think they should arrange this for 12 months  on the 
existing tracker.
I think Ms M has a credible plan in trying to sell her property and shes actively  taking this 
forward. Given the market  conditions I think its reasonable to allow a little more time for that 
plan to be realised  rather than the possibility  of taking action to bring the mortgage to an 
end.
Ive also considered the health issues that Ms M has and while  I appreciate things might be 
a little difficult for her at times,  I dont  think this would prevent her from being  able to try and 
sell her property in the meantime.
Ms M thinks that there would be a conflict of interest by allowing BOI to liaise  with the estate  
agent and is worried  that this could  comprise her data protection  rights.  She thinks  this 
breaches the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance so has concerns with BOI 
doing this. She is willing  to ask the estate  agent  to provide her with written monthly updates  
about the sale which she said she would then pass onto BOI.
I dont think this breaches ICO guidance as all we would  expect  is the estate agent to keep 
BOI updated with how the sale is going.  Although this would involve disclosing Ms Ms 
personal information to BOI, the estate  agent would be able to do that with Ms Ms 
agreement. I think  its reasonable for BOI to liaise with the estate agent  so that they can be 
kept updated with how the sale is going and it would  also be sensible for Ms M to take any 
advice from the estate agent on selling  her property. I think its fair for BOI to make the 12 
month extension conditional on Ms M agreeing that it can discuss the sale with the estate 
agent.
I appreciate that Ms M has said she would ask the estate agent  for monthly  updates which 
she would  sent to BOI, but I dont think it needs to be as formal  as that. BOI would just want 
to be kept up to date with how the sale is going and there is nothing  to say that they would 
want this information  monthly - just for them  to be kept up to date. I would encourage both 
parties to keep in touch  while the sale is going  through.
Ref: DRN18610644my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to provide Ms M with a 12 month term extension, subject 
to Ms M agreeing that it can liaise with the estate agent. The mortgage should  continue on 
the existing tracker rate during this time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1861064