K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is unhappy because he says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has changed the name  
and address on two of his accounts without  his authority, provided poor service and not 
properly investigated  a fraudulent withdrawal from one of his accounts. 
Mr Ss sister (Ms S) is representing  him on this complaint. 
Background
Mr S has two US Dollar  (USD) Currency Deposit Accounts with Barclays.
On 11 February 2019 Mr S says he downloaded a statement for one of his accounts and 
noted his address had been changed,  a joint account holder was added  and $160 had been 
withdrawn from his account without his consent. Mr S thought  the changes  and withdrawal of 
funds were as a result of fraud. Ms S reported  the issues to Barclays  in branch on 
13 February 2019 and again on 15 February  2019.  On 15 February she was told the bank 
would respond  in eight weeks, but it didnt. They received a response from Barclays on 
6 May 2019.
Barclays said Mr Ss address was changed when the joint account  holder  notified it of a 
change of address,  and it then amended the address for all her accounts. It didnt say when 
the changes had been made. It also said both accounts were set up with joint consent.  In 
relation to the withdrawal of $160,  Barclays said a member of staff had made an error, but 
there was no fraud. It credited the $160  and added interest for the days  the amount  wasnt in 
Mr Ss account. Barclays accepted it hadnt  set up a complaint when it should have in 
February 2019. In recognition of its errors Barclays offered to pay Mr S £200. 
Mr S didnt accept Barclays explanation  and offer. He said Barclays  was covering  up 
fraudulent activity, had not completed adequate security checks, and had taken too long to 
investigate Mr Ss concerns. He also said hed been into a branch many times to confirm 
accounts should be paperless  and in his sole name. They referred  the complaint to this 
service.
The investigator who looked at the complaint  said shed seen evidence the accounts were  in 
joint names. She said Barclays changed  the address for all the joint account holders 
accounts when  notified of the change and noted $160 was withdrawn in error and had later 
been refunded.  Taking everything into account  the investigator thought  the £200 award 
made by Barclays was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion and has asked for a final decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. Ms S explained  Mr S hasnt been with the joint account 
holder named on the statement for over ten years and no accounts  should be in joint names. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Barclays inappropriately changed the name and address on the 
accounts, whether  the withdrawal was carried out fraudulently and whether Mr S had been 
treated unfairly.
Ref: DRN18980082Name and address  on the account
Ms S says, in February 2019,  Mr S noticed a change  of address from Richmond to London 
and an additional  name had been added. As Ms S says the accounts are in Mr Ss sole 
name and have always shown his address in Richmond  and not London, Ive looked  at 
Mr Ss account histories. Barclays  has also provided  statements for the accounts. Having 
done so, I can see that both of Mr Ss USD accounts are in joint names and have been at 
least since 2012. The earliest statement for one of these accounts dates to 2012.  All the 
statements are in joint names and show the London address. Mr S says this address is the 
joint account holders  and not his. Theres no evidence to suggest  a change of name or 
address happened on either of Mr Ss accounts around February 2019  although  I 
appreciate hes said this was when he noticed the change.  Given  this Im not persuaded the 
address and account holder name had changed  around February 2019 but had been that for 
several years. It seems Mr S only noticed the names  and address  on the accounts in 
February 2019. While  Mr S says the changes happened without his consent and 
fraudulently, theres  nothing in the evidence  to persuade me this was the case. The accounts 
were on a joint basis with his ex-wife and consent  is also on a joint basis.  Barclays says the 
address was changed when Mr S ex-wife changed the address on her other  accounts.  I 
cant see any reason why she couldnt do this as the consent on the account  was on a joint 
basis. Theres no evidence therefore the name or address changed on the account was 
carried out fraudulently  and Im not therefore  persuaded this was the case.
In response to the investigators opinion Ms S has provided a statement in Mr Ss sole name. 
This statement is for a different account, so I havent  considered  it as part of this complaint.  
$160 transaction
Mr S thinks  $160 was taken from his account  fraudulently. Barclays  has explained $160 was 
taken from one of Mr Ss accounts in error  when  a staff member  used the wrong account 
number. I havent  seen anything to suggest this wasnt the case,  or that the amount was 
taken fraudulently. Barclays has refunded the $160 taken out of Mr Ss account in error, 
added interest and taken the distress caused into account when it awarded compensation. In 
doing so I think  it has acted reasonably. 
Service provided
Its clear Barclays  didnt  set up a complaint from Ms S when it should have, meaning they 
had to wait longer than expected for a response.  Barclays has accepted it made an error in 
the money being incorrectly taken from Mr Ss account and that it could have provided better  
service. In recognition  of this, it made an award of £200. I appreciate  these mistakes have 
led Mr S to worry,  but Im satisfied Barclays has done enough to put things right and has 
acted reasonably. 
Ms S has asked our investigator how Mr S can now request  for the changes  to be made  so 
his account can be in his sole name. Im afraid I cant  comment  on this as each bank has its 
own procedures in this regard. Mr S should  therefore approach Barclays  directly if he wishes  
to do this.
Conclusion
Barclays has made mistakes,  but Im satisfied  it has properly investigated Mr Ss concerns. I 
havent seen anything in the evidence provided  which suggests a name was added to 
Mr Ss account and his address changed fraudulently in February 2019, or that a withdrawal 
was made  fraudulently. Im satisfied Mr Ss accounts  were  set up in joint names  and there 
has been no change  since at least 2012.  Given the available circumstances of this case,  I 
Ref: DRN18980083think the £200 offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable. I dont think Barclays  needs  to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC. I think the £200 offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombusman
Ref: DRN1898008