K821x#15Complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he received to transfer  his pensions into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited (SLS).
Background
In September  2018, Mr H met with SLS for pension advice. SLS completed a fact-find  
recording that Mr H was 51 years  old and that he wished to retire at 60. It stated he was 
employed as a business development manager  earning a salary of £120,000. Mr H had 
three pension arrangements. He had a personal  pension with a business Ill call A, which 
had a value of around £64,500 and he was making contributions of £500 per month  towards 
it. He had an Occupational Pension Scheme  (OPS) with a former  employer  which had a 
transfer value  of around £170,000 (OPS1) and another OPS with a former employer which 
had a transfer value of around £196,000 (OPS2).
SLS completed a suitability report  on 6 September 2018 advising Mr H to transfer all three of 
his pensions into a SIPP with a business Ill call J. He was also advised to invest his monies 
into a portfolio to be managed by a discretionary fund manager in line with his medium  
attitude to risk. Mr H was expected to continue making contributions  of £500  per month to 
the SIPP, but it appears he decided instead  to make  these contributions to his offset 
mortgage account. This was to ensure hed be in a position to repay the mortgage in around  
five years.
Following the advice, Mr H changed his mind  and attempted to cancel the pension transfers. 
Mr H managed to stop OPS2 from being  transferred, however both the pension  with A and 
the benefits held in OPS1 were transferred to the SIPP. Mr H paid a fee of 3% of the transfer 
value of these  pensions to SLS,  around £7,000. The pension with A was returned  following 
the SIPP receiving  the cancellation notice, however the OPS1 benefits could not be returned 
and the funds remained in the SIPP as cash.
Mr H complained about the suitability of advice he received, stating that SLS should  not 
have advised  him to transfer his pensions  to a SIPP. SLS didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint as 
it thought the advice  provided was suitable as it allowed Mr H to achieve his objective of 
retiring at 60. Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators upheld the complaint.  The adjudicator  thought Mr H shouldve been 
advised to remain  in both of his OPSs due to the guaranteed benefits they provided and 
because he was unlikely  to be better  off if he transferred. The adjudicator also said the new 
pension had higher charges in comparison to the previous pension  Mr H had with A. The 
adjudicator added that Mr Hs pension with A was already invested in line with his risk 
profile, so a fund switch  shouldve been  considered instead.
Overall, the adjudicator considered the advice Mr H received to transfer his pensions  was 
unsuitable. He recommended Mr H be put back into the position  he wouldve been  in if hed 
been advised against transferring his OPSs  and pension with A. He also recommended SLS 
pay £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Mr H thought that the fees hed paid SLS for the advice and the SIPP fees hed paid should  
be refunded. He said hed also had to pay a new adviser for advice about where to invest  the 
funds he couldnt  return to the OPS,  which wouldnt have been necessary if hed received 
suitable advice.  Mr H added that the funds returned to A, and the funds held in the SIPP  had 
Ref: DRN18160012lost out on growth  as a result of the poor advice, which he thought he should  be 
compensated for.
SLS didnt agree and asked for a final decision. It said not enough consideration had been 
given to Mr Hs desire  to retire at 60 with an income of £2,400 per month, which  he couldnt 
have achieved if hed kept his existing  arrangements.
An investigator was asked to follow up on the points Mr H had made about the adviser fees 
and SIPP  fees.  He said if SLS had advised Mr H not to transfer  his existing pension 
arrangements, Mr H wouldve most likely paid a fee of £1,500, as per the client agreement.  
However, he thought  Mr H should be refunded any initial advice fee he paid to the new 
adviser, as this wouldnt have been  necessary but for the unsuitable advice.
The investigator said he didnt think Mr H should be compensated for the time he had left his 
funds in the SIPP cash account  because  Mr H knew he couldnt  return  the funds to the OPS, 
and so knew they would have needed to be invested elsewhere. He thought  Mr H ought to 
have mitigated his loss here. The same applied  to the funds returned to A, which he 
understood also hadnt been invested.  In any event, he thought  due to market  movements 
Mr H may have  actually gained from leaving his funds in cash,  and set out how SLS could 
factor this into the proposed redress. The investigator explained that the SIPP fees were 
factored into the regulators  defined benefit pension redress. 
Mr Hs new adviser  made further  representations  on his behalf,  saying that Mr H shouldnt 
have had to pay any advice fee to SLS whatsoever. He added that hed asked Mr H to pay a 
reduced fee because of his circumstances, but the cost of providing the advice was much  
higher, which  his firm had had to absorb,  and which he felt was unfair.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion on the matter as he was satisfied 
SLS wouldve  charged Mr H for the advice even if it hadnt recommended  he transfer  his 
pensions. He also said he could  only ask SLS to refund fees Mr H had actually  been  
charged for the new advice and any reduction in the fee provided couldnt  be taken into 
account.
SLS didnt agree for the reasons already  given,  so the matter was referred  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  given  by the adjudicator and more  recently,  the investigator.  Ill 
explain why.
According to the file note provided by SLS, Mr H was seeking general advice about  the 
position of his existing pensions  he wanted  to know whether he should leave them as they 
were or move them  to a new arrangement  that may better suit his circumstances.  Mr H had 
two OPSs and a personal pension. The benefits  held in the two OPS, around £366,000,  
represented the vast majority of Mr Hs retirement  provisions.
I know that Mr H was also advised to switch his personal pension,  which  had a value  of 
around £65,000. But I dont think he wouldve proceeded  with the switch of this plan alone if 
he hadnt been advised to transfer  his OPS  benefits.  So, for the purpose of this decision, Ive 
focused on whether  the advice to transfer  out of the OPS was suitable for Mr H.
Ref: DRN18160013The rules  about  transferring  benefits  from an OPS requires firms to start from the 
assumption a transfer will not be suitable.  A firm should only then consider a transfer  or opt-
out to be suitable if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence, that the transfer 
or opt-out is in the client's best interests  (Conduct of Business Sourcebook COBS 19.1.6). 
This guidance reflects the fact that defined benefits, offering guaranteed, inflation-proof 
income for life, are extremely valuable. It follows that in order  for a transfer, involving 
irreversible loss of the benefits, to be suitable,  there  must  be significant advantages in favour  
of transfer, sufficient to outweigh  the significant disadvantage of loss of guaranteed  benefits.
The following  regulation  is also particularly relevant here:
COBS 19.1.7
When a firm advises  a retail client on a pension  transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients  attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved  to replicate the benefits  being given up.
SLS recommended Mr H transfer  out of his two OPSs to a SIPP  for essentially the following 
reasons:
to take a higher amount of tax-free  cash at age 60, which Mr H would live on until he 
reached age 65;
so Mr H could start drawing an income of £2,400 at age 65 and have the flexibility to 
reduce this after he reached  state  pension age;
to pass on 100% of his pension to his family in the event of his death.
But as per the above rules and guidance,  the transfer needs to be in Mr Hs best interest  and 
any advantages  of transferring should  outweigh the disadvantages of giving up the 
guaranteed benefits. 
When a firm considers recommending a client transfers out of a defined  benefit scheme, the 
regulator requires  it to carry out a calculation to establish the investment  performance  
required by the new pension in order to match the benefits available  from the transferring
scheme. This is known  as the critical yield.
The advice was given  after the regulator  gave  instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could  calculate future  discount rates in loss assessments where a 
complaint about  a past pension transfer  was being  upheld.  Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were  published  by the Financial  Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses werent  required to refer to these  rates when  giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been  considered  
reasonably achievable when the advice was given  in this case. 
For OPS1, which had a normal retirement  age of 60, the critical yield was quoted as 10.1% 
per year. However, Mr H said he wanted  to take the maximum tax-free cash at age 60, 
which reduced the critical yield to 8.92%. The closest discount  rate to this time which Im 
able to refer to was published by the Financial  Ombudsman Service for the period before 
1 October 2017, and is 3.5% per year for 8 years to retirement.
For OPS2, which had a normal retirement  age of 65, but allowed  Mr H to retire  at 60, the 
critical yield was quoted as 8% per year. If Mr H took the maximum tax-free cash, this 
Ref: DRN18160014reduced the critical yield to 4.52%. As above,  the closest discount rate to this time which Im 
able to refer to is 3.5% per year for 8 years  to retirement.
So, the critical yields quoted required Mr Hs investments to grow by more  than the 
comparable growth  rates available just to provide the same benefits in retirement.  For OPS1, 
it required growth significantly above this. It would also require growth  far in excess of the 
industry standard projected mid-rate  of 5%, which is a relevant consideration given  Mr Hs 
balanced or medium attitude to risk. To achieve  a higher return  than the mid-rate, closer  to 
the critical yields quoted,  Mr H wouldve needed  to take significantly more  risk, which  SLS 
recognised at the time he couldnt  take.  So, I think it ought to have been made clear to Mr H 
that he would most  likely be worse off if he transferred out of his OPS to a SIPP.  However, 
the recommendation letter said this level of growth was potentially  achievable,  and I think 
this statement was quite  misleading.
SLS says that the critical yields only become relevant if Mr H intended to buy an annuity. 
And based on the information it gathered, this wasnt important to him. But having reviewed 
the fact-find, there are a number of important  questions  in the Retirement  Options & 
Pension Unlocking section left unanswered. For example,  the sub-section entitled  Annuity 
Purchase, which asks whether  Mr H wanted a guaranteed income, is left blank. So, I dont 
think SLS properly  explored whether Mr H wanted  a guaranteed income in retirement. Given 
the same  form noted that Mr H was fairly risk averse, I think  it was important to consider  
this fully. I note the form does say that Mr H wanted flexibility.  But I think given the choice 
most customers would  opt for flexibility. However, what isnt clear is whether Mr H wouldve 
prioritised flexibility over having a guaranteed, inflation-proof income,  when the future 
performance of the pension couldnt be guaranteed.
In any event, SLS says that the critical yield required to match Mr Hs OPS  benefits shouldnt 
be considered  in isolation. It said Mr Hs primary objective was to be able to retire at age 60. 
SLS said it carried out extensive modelling to show how Mr Hs objective would be met by 
transferring all of his pensions to the SIPP. It said this would allow  him to take 25% of the 
entire fund tax-free,  which wouldve been a higher sum than he couldve taken from his 
existing arrangements. It said he could live off this amount  until age 65 and then take income  
of £2,400 per month and adjust this income when he received his state  pension.  SLS says 
Mr H couldnt have  achieved that if he left his existing arrangements  as they were as the two 
OPSs wouldve only provided £13,400 gross per year (£1,117  per month)  and he needed  
£2,400 net per month.
SLSs initial file note shows that Mr H said he would love to retire at 60 and that his wife, 
Mrs H, who also had an OPS, would like to retire  at a similar age. The note shows that the 
household expenditure  was around £4,000  per month, of which  £1,500 was a mortgage 
repayment and £500 was a regular pension contribution Mr H made  to the plan with A. Mr H 
stated the mortgage would  be repaid in five years and the pension contribution would cease 
on retirement, so the households  total expenditure in retirement would be around  £2,000.  
The note explains this amount would allow Mr and Mrs H to maintain their lifestyle  in 
retirement.
However, the note then states that Mr H would  like to have £2,400  per month.  It isnt clear 
how this higher figure had been arrived at, particularly  as Mrs Hs retirement  income or tax-
free cash  entitlement hasnt been  factored in. If this was the basis for the calculation, then it 
appears to be flawed as Mr H wouldve been  taking  higher income than he needed from his 
pension. And contrary to what SLS says, I cant see that it was Mr H that proposed he take 
the maximum tax-free cash and live off this until he started taking a regular income  at age 65 
Ref: DRN18160015(which he couldnt  do if he remained in his OPS). Instead, this appears to be a solution 
proposed by SLS in its recommendation report.
I dont doubt that the figures  presented to Mr H seemed attractive to him at the time. But 
ultimately, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits of the former scheme was very 
limited, especially considering Mr Hs attitude to risk. And whilst I appreciate  that Mr H 
expressed a desire  to retire at 60, SLS still had an obligation to act in his best interests and 
ensure that its advice  was suitable.  So, if Mr Hs existing arrangements  didnt support his 
wish to retire at 60, or the level of income  he wanted, SLS shouldnt have recommended  he 
transfer out of his OPS simply to meet that objective  when this would be dependent  on 
investment returns and it was likely he would be worse off as a result. It follows that I dont 
think the advice  to transfer out of Mr Hs OPSs was suitable for him.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs desire  to pass on 100% of his pension benefits to his family in 
the event of his death. But I dont think this desire  outweighs the clear disadvantages of 
transferring his OPS  benefits. If Mr H wanted to ensure  funds were  available to his family on 
his death, SLS couldve  explored  supplementing the spouses pension available under his 
OPS with life assurance. This wouldve  achieved  Mr Hs aims by taking less risk with his 
pension funds.
As I dont think Mr H shouldve been advised to transfer his OPS benefits, it follows that 
I dont think he wouldve switched over the pension he held with A. This is because  the SIPP  
charges were higher, and his funds  were already invested with A in line with his attitude to 
risk. This means that Mr H has paid a larger initial advice fee than he wouldve paid because 
of the unsuitable advice.
The client  agreement suggests  that Mr H wouldve paid a flat fee of £1,500 if the advice to 
remain in his existing  schemes was given.  So, this should be factored into the redress 
calculation set out below.
Mr H also needed to pay a new adviser  for advice on where he should invest the funds he 
couldnt return to the OPS.  Mr H has told us that he paid £750  and I think it would be fair for 
SLS to refund this sum as this advice wouldnt have been required if SLS had given Mr H 
suitable advice.  Ive taken into account Mr Hs new advisers comments that Mr H was 
charged less due to his circumstances but in reality, the advice cost his firm more. But Im 
satisfied that it is reasonable to only compensate Mr H for the extra  sum he actually paid for 
the advice.
Putting things  right
OPS transfer
A fair outcome would  be for SLS to put Mr H, as far as possible,  into the position he would 
now be in but for the unsuitable advice.  As explained above, I consider he would  have 
remained in the occupational scheme. So, SLS should therefore undertake  a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review  methodology, as amended  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
I would recommend that the calculation is carried out by an appropriately qualified individual,
such as an actuary with experience of the Pensions  Review calculation method. The cost 
should be met by SLS.
Ref: DRN18160016This calculation should  be carried out using the most  recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual  calculation.  SLS may wish to contact  the Department  for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
The calculation should assume that Mr H would  have paid a £1,500 fee for advice.
Rather than comparing  the discounted value of the lost benefits to the actual value of the
transferred benefits,  the comparison should  be made to the higher of:
a)The sum transferred  to the SIPP, less the initial charge on that sum,  with growth in 
line with the FTSE Private Investors Income  Total Return index from the date of 
transfer to the SIPP  provider  to the date of calculation;
b)The sum transferred  to the new pension provider arising  from the defined  benefit 
transfer, with growth in line with the FTSE Private Investors  Income Total  Return 
index from the date of transfer to the new pension provider to the date of calculation.
This accounts for the fact that Mr H left the transferred sum in cash until the recent  switch,  
and for the fact that Mr H may have gained as a result. If hes lost out as a result of that 
decision, SLS will not compensate for that loss; if hes gained, that gain will be accounted 
for.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid into Mr Hs
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So, making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
Pension plan with A transfer
My aim is to put Mr H in the position he would be in now, but for SLSs error.  I consider it 
reasonable to assume that, with suitable  advice, Mr H would have remained in his plan with 
A and in the same fund. Any contributions Mr H made to the SIPP  (if he made any at all) 
would instead  have been made to this plan.
To resolve  this aspect  of the complaint,  SLS should  pay Mr H compensation of C, where:
A.The notional transfer value of the original plan at the date of calculation, assuming 
that Mr H would  have  remained invested  in the same fund and made  the same 
contributions to this plan as he did to the SIPP,  as explained  above;
B.The higher of:
Ref: DRN18160017a)The notional value  of the sum returned  to A following cancellation, had it been 
reinvested in the previous fund on receipt  and had Mr H made the same  
contributions as he did to the SIPP, at the same date of calculation;  or
b)The sum transferred  to the new pension provider arising  from the initial transfer  
from A and any contributions, with growth in line with the FTSE Private  Investors  
Income Total Return index from the date of transfer  to the new pension  provider  
to the date of calculation.
C.A  B, representing the loss to the date of calculation;
If the calculation  results in a loss, the compensation amount  should  if possible be paid into
Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, the 
sum should be paid direct  to Mr H as a lump sum less a deduction of 15% (as above). If the 
calculation results in a gain, SLS can set this off against the OPS transfer redress. This 
should be done by combining  gross with gross  or net with net.
Other factors
SLS should refund to Mr H the £750 he paid to his new financial adviser  for advice.
SLS should pay Mr H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate.  Where  I consider that fair compensation requires  
payment of an amount that might exceed  £150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold  the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated  as set out above.
I require Smith, Law & Shepherds  I.F.A  Limited  to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Ref: DRN18160018Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited pays  Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Smith, Law & Shepherds  I.F.A  
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Smith,  Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept  my decision and go to court  to ask for the balance. 
Mr H may want to consider getting independent  legal  advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1816001