K820x#14complaint
Mr M, complains on behalf of his business  which Ill call LB  that National Westminster 
Bank Plc has not renewed  the overdraft facility. 
background
LB had an overdraft  facility of £4,000 with NatWest that expired in September 2018. Mr M 
was told to contact  it, if it wanted  the overdraft renewed. He was asked to complete and 
income and expenditure form for the business. Due to the level of income and outgoings the 
business didnt  meet NatWests lending criteria for the overdraft  to be renewed.  And so its 
request was declined.  NatWest asked the business to get in touch  with proposals for 
repayment of the outstanding balance. 
Mr M wasnt happy about the overdraft not being renewed and complained. NatWest didnt 
uphold the complaint as the business  hadnt met its lending criteria.  It again asked for 
repayment proposals. But as none  were forthcoming  it gave notice to Mr M that the business  
account and other accounts he held with it in other  capacities were  going to be closed. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  Our investigator explained she couldnt  look into 
the closure of the accounts as a complaint hadnt been made to NatWest  about that. And 
she didnt uphold the complaint about the renewal of the overdraft  facility  as she was 
satisfied NatWest was acting fairly when declining the renewal. 
Mr M has asked  for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. He is unhappy with the 
renewal fees and says now theyre under scrutiny the easy way out is to close  the account.  
He feels there was a mis-sale and fees should  be refunded.  The investigator explained these 
werent matters we had considered but Mr M still wanted referral  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. 
Its quite common for overdraft facilities to have  a limited time period or for them  to require 
renewal, particularly business  overdrafts.  LB was notified in advance of the expiry  period that 
applied and that it could be renewed  subject to a review. 
Lenders have an obligation  to lend responsibly and to ensure that any borrowing  is 
affordable. So I dont find it was unfair for NatWest  to undertake a review  when the overdraft 
expired. It considered  the income and expenditure information provided which showed the 
business didnt  have any disposable  income; in fact, it had more expenditure than income. In 
such circumstances, I dont find NatWest  was acting unfairly when deciding LBs turnover 
wasnt sufficient to continue extending the same level of borrowing.
I do understand Mr M is very disappointed with this. But I can see from the information  
provided that NatWest  offered to put Mr M in touch  with other  organisations that might be 
able to help.
Ref: DRN11091962Im also aware that NatWest has sought repayment proposals for the outstanding balance.  
As this is money owed  by LB, Mr M and NatWest  will need to work together to come to a 
mutually acceptable repayment arrangement. 
Finally, I note that Mr M is unhappy his accounts are going to be closed and with the amount 
of renewal charges.  I havent been provided with any evidence NatWest  has had a chance  to 
consider these complaints, and so this isnt something I can consider here. If Mr M is still 
unhappy he will need to complain to NatWest first. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
LB, to accept or reject my decision before 18 August  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1109196