K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly cancelled his car insurance policy 
without giving him reasonable notice.
background
Mr G held a car insurance policy with UKI and says he contacted them  on 31 July 2018 to 
say that he wouldnt  be able to pay his premiums  that month due to difficult  life 
circumstances. He says UKI told him to cancel his direct debit, and that it was agreed  
beforehand that he wouldnt be making a payment  that month. Mr G cancelled  his direct 
debit and the payment was rejected.
Mr G complained when  he received a letter from UKI on 17 August 2018 which informed him 
that his policy had been cancelled due to the latest missed payment. UKI said theyd sent a 
notice of cancellation letter on 3 August 2018, which gave 14 days notice of the policy 
cancellation, but Mr G says he never received  this letter. As a result, he did not know his 
policy had been  cancelled until he received the cancellation letter,  by which  time he had 
been driving his car around uninsured for five days.
Mr G says UKI should have called  or emailed him to chase the payment  before cancelling  
his insurance. He also complains that the cancellation has now made  it harder and more  
expensive for him to obtain another insurance policy, so he wants  UKI to reinstate his policy 
and compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. UKI declined to reinstate 
Mr Gs policy  as they say they cancelled it in line with their terms and conditions,  as it was 
the third payment that had been rejected that year. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. She thought UKIs decision to cancel his 
policy was fair and in line with their terms and conditions, and she didnt consider that any 
agreement had been made  for Mr G not to make a payment that month.  The investigator 
also thought it was likely the notice of cancellation  had been  sent,  so she didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Gs policy state:
If we have  been unable  to collect your premium on the date it is due, we will write  to you in 
order to give you the opportunity  to make the payment.
If the payment remains unpaid by the date we set out in our letter,  we will give you 14 days  
notice that we will cancel  your policy and inform you in writing when this cancellation has 
taken place.
So the policy  terms and conditions permit UKI to cancel an insurance  policy  if theyve been 
unable to collect a payment,  provided they give 14 days notice, so Ive considered  whether  
UKI have  acted fairly in cancelling Mr Gs policy in line with this term. 
Ref: DRN10030392Mr G called UKI on 31 July 2018  to tell them that he wouldnt be able to make his next 
payment due to the difficult circumstances he was experiencing.  Ive listened to this call, and 
I appreciate that Mr G did in fact say this to UKI. But all the insurer said was that the request 
had already been sent to the bank, so there was nothing they could  do until the payment 
was rejected, and that it was up to Mr G if he wanted to cancel his direct  debit so that he 
didnt pay it. So UKI didnt actually agree to Mr G missing the payment.
Although the policy terms allow UKI to cancel an insurance contract  if a payment is missed, 
the insurer says that in practice they actually allow for two rejected payments. But once there  
is a third payment  rejected, this will trigger their cancellation process.  Ive reviewed Mr Gs 
payment history,  and I can see that he has had three rejected payments over the space of a 
year. 
The first rejected payment occurred on 5 January 2018, at which point  UKI sent a letter  
asking for payment, which also contained a warning  that the policy  may be referred for 
cancellation if the premium remains unpaid, but Mr G subsequently made this payment on 
18 January 2018.  His second payment was rejected on 4 May 2018 where a further letter  
was sent explaining that any further rejections may result  in the policy  being cancelled.  The 
third rejected  payment occurred in August 2018 when Mr G cancelled his direct  debit, at 
which point UKI wrote  to him on 3 August 2018  to explain that he was in breach of the terms 
of his credit  agreement, and that his insurance would be cancelled  if his outstanding 
payment was not received  within 14 days. But UKI did not receive a response to this letter, 
so they wrote to him on 17 August 2018  to say that his policy had been cancelled.
Given that Mr G had received two prior warnings  that his policy may be cancelled if he 
missed another  payment,  I dont  think UKI have acted unreasonably by deciding to cancel 
his policy  following the third rejected payment. They had written to him as required, and no 
response or payment was received in response  to their letter of 3 August 2018. And as Ive 
set out earlier,  I do not accept that Mr G had reached any sort of agreement  with UKI to not 
pay his premiums in August. 
Mr G says that he didnt ever receive UKIs  cancellation notification  of 3 August 2018.  He 
says he was not living at his previous address that UKI had on file, following a dispute with 
his housemate which saw him move back into his Mothers property. But Mr G says he still 
had access to his previous  address  even  though  he was not residing there, and that he was 
collecting his mail.  He concedes, however, that he had not informed  UKI of his change  of 
address.
I appreciate its possible  that Mr G may not have received the cancellation  notification. But I 
have to weigh up what is most likely in the circumstances, and I have to take into account 
that the vast majority of mail that is correctly addressed is received by the intended recipient. 
I can see that UKI sent the letter to the address which they had on file, which was the most 
recent address  Mr G had provided. And given that he had received other items of 
correspondence from UKI  such as the cancellation  letter of 17 August 2018  I consider its 
more likely than not that the letter wouldve reached  his address. And given  that he hadnt 
informed UKI that he was no longer  residing  at his previous address, they wouldnt have 
known that it might  not have reached Mr G, although it still should have given that he was 
still collecting his mail. I also havent  been  made  aware of any issues  with the postal  service  
that were present in Mr Gs area at the time. So on balance,  I think its likely the letter was 
delivered correctly, and that he ought to have  known that his policy was due to be cancelled 
within 14 days if he didnt make a payment. And it follows that I dont think UKI have acted 
Ref: DRN10030393unfairly by then choosing to cancel his policy when they didnt receive any response  or 
payment within  that time. 
Mr G doesnt think  its fair that UKI only sent a letter, and that they didnt attempt to call or 
email him for payment  before cancelling his policy. But I cant  see that Mr G had ever told 
UKI to expressly contact  him via these methods. And I think  its fair for an insurer  to expect  
that correspondence sent via post would be safely received if a policyholders address is up 
to date, particularly  given that this was how theyd previously contacted  Mr G when he 
missed his previous  payments. I also note that Mr G doesnt appear to have made any 
attempt to get in contact  with UKI himself  during this period to inform them of when he might 
be in a position to make his August payment. 
Mr G says that UKI failed  to provide him with adequate support during a period  of difficult  
circumstances. I appreciate that Mr G did inform  UKI of his circumstances, and I sympathise 
with the difficult  situation  and bereavement  he was going through.  But the insurer  was not 
obliged to waive his payments in these circumstances, and Mr G also didnt tell UKI when he 
might be in a position to make his next payment. Given that this was the third payment that 
had been rejected in the space of one year; I dont think  it was unreasonable  for UKI to have 
cancelled his policy even  though hed informed them of his situation. 
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome, and that he is now having  to pay a 
lot more for his insurance as a result  of the policy being cancelled.  But UKI have acted  in line 
with their policy terms and conditions, and I dont think theyve done so unfairly in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1003039