K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Emergency Cash Limited,  trading as wizzcash.com (ECL) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  ECL provided to Mr C between March  2015 
and October 2016.  Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Mr C has said he should not have been  given  the loans due to a gambling  addiction. He had 
large amounts of debt  including other payday loans. Mr C has said ECL did not lend to him 
responsibility as he is in more debt now. He has said if proper affordability checks  had been 
done, it would have seen his true financial situation. 
ECL has said it carried  out the relevant credit and affordability assessments - which  included  
purchasing two credit reports to verify  Mr Cs information. ECL believe the use of two leading 
real time credit reference agencies provides us with enough information in relation to extent 
and scope of Mr Cs existing debt. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought  loans 2 and 3 should not have 
been given. ECL disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
ECL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that ECL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 19/03/2015 29/05/2015 3 £300.00 £130.52
2 19/10/2015 22/08/2016 12 £400.00 £61.15
3 07/10/2016 31/01/2017 3 £500.00 £259.99
Ref: DRN14992372the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ECL was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C hasnt disputed our adjudicators findings about loan 1 so I wont be considering this 
loan any further  because it is no longer in dispute. 
ECL says the information it received  from its credit  checks didnt suggest Mr C would have 
difficulty repaying the loans. But ECL was required to establish whether Mr C could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan repayments were affordable. 
I think ECL should have asked for more detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances and ask for evidence (which could be bank statements) to support what he 
said. I say this this because Mr C applied for loan 2 five months after loan 1 was repaid. Mr 
C made three loan applications between repaying  loan 1 and taking out loan 2  they were 
all declined.  And Mr C returned for a larger loan to be repaid over a significantly longer 
period of time. 
Mr C has provided his bank statements from March 2015, August 2016  and September 
2016. The bank  statements show that Mr C was taking out a number of payday  loans  with 
other providers, as well as showing Mr Cs history of gambling  which he has told the 
service about. And so I dont think further borrowing was sustainable. 
Loan 3 was taken two months after loan 2 was repaid with one loan application being 
declined in between. Mr C had asked for £1,000 but ECL only approved an amount of £500. 
Mr C told ECL his monthly income  was £1,750.  ECL increased Mr Cs monthly expenditure 
to £1,092 based on information from its credit checks. 
Ref: DRN14992373Whilst loans 2 and 3 werent taken out immediately after the previous loan was repaid, I 
dont think the breaks  between  Mr Cs loans were  enough for ECL to be reasonably sure 
there wasnt a possible  problem here, such  as dependency on short  term loans or financial 
difficulties. I say this because Mr C often made applications shortly after a loan was repaid, 
he had applications  declined and ECL should have known he had taken out other short-term 
loans from other lenders.
I think ECL was wrong to continue to provide Mr C borrowing for loans 2 and 3. These loans 
had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive 
credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. I also think his use of 
these loans was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
putting things right  what ECL needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;  and
remove any negative  information about  loans 2 and 3 from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ECL to take off tax from this interest.  ECL must give     
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Emergency Cash  
Limited, trading  as wizzcash.com, should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499237