K820x#14Complaint
Miss L1 and her sister Miss L2 complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have not fully 
settled their cancellation claim under their travel  insurance policy  as they have  not paid them 
for the cost of the refer a friend discount  which was used to purchase their holiday.  
To keep  things simple,  anywhere I refer to AXA,  I include their agents, intermediaries  and 
claims handlers.
Background
Miss L1 and Miss L2 bought an annual travel insurance policy  underwritten  by AXA in early 
2018. They  booked  a holiday in April 2018  and were  due to travel in January 2019. In June 
2018 the holiday company (who Ill refer to as B) applied a refer  a friend discount  of £160 
to the booking against Miss L1s name.     
In November 2018 Miss L2 was advised  by her specialist that she should  not travel  due to a 
medical condition.  Miss L2 contacted AXA and B in late 2018 to cancel the holiday. B 
refunded Miss L1 and Miss L2 in line with their cancellation  policy  and Miss L1 and Miss L2 
then submitted a claim to AXA for the rest of their costs. 
AXA accepted and paid the claim but have refused to pay the value of the refer a friend  
discount as they said it was not a cost incurred by Miss L1 and Miss L2. AXA suggested that 
Miss L1 and Miss L2 contact B to ask if the discount  could be transferred to another  booking. 
Miss L1 and Miss L2 were unhappy  with AXAs decision and asked  for the complaint to be 
considered by our service. Our investigator thought that AXAs decision was fair, but Miss L1 
and Miss L2 disagreed  and asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman.
Miss L1 has since  told us that she contacted B to ask if they would honour the discount on a 
future booking. B said they are unable to offer a replacement discount due to system  
limitations and suggested  they should  claim for this amount on their travel insurance policy.
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I realise  Miss L1 and Miss L2 will be disappointed  with 
this outcome and Ive explained my reasoning below.
AXA have said that they will not cover the cost of the refer a friend  discount  as it was 
deducted from the final amount paid at the time of booking and it isnt a cost that the policy 
covers.
However, Miss L1 and Miss L2 claim  that they have suffered a financial loss as they cant  
use the £160 discount on another  holiday  as B are unable to provide  them  with a 
replacement refer a friend discount.
The refer a friend discount  is a promotional voucher offered by B which, when used,  
provides a discount on the full cost of the holiday. The loyalty  programme through which the 
discount is offered  is free of charge  to join and the refer a friend  discount can be obtained 
following a booking made from a referral.  
Ref: DRN15666042The travel insurance policy says, We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule  
of benefits for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused  travel and accommodation 
costs and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together  
with your proportion  only of any reasonable additional travel  expenses incurred...          
So, it covers  the policyholder for costs they have actually incurred. 
I therefore do not think that it would be fair to ask AXA to refund the cost of the refer a 
friend discount as Miss L1 and Miss L2 have not suffered  a financial loss. I appreciate that 
they consider  the discount to hold monetary value as they say they cannot afford to book a 
similar holiday at the full price. However,  this is a promotional  discount offered by B and I do 
not consider it to hold monetary value in the same way for example that a supermarket 
points scheme would, as it is not built up from eligible spending.  Its also not the same  as 
Miss L1 and Miss L2 paying the £160 and now not being able to get that back.
Based on the terms of the travel  insurance policy, I think AXA have  been  reasonable in what  
they have paid to date.  
I do sympathise with Miss L1 and Miss L2 but having  considered  all the evidence and 
arguments presented,  I dont think AXA has treated them unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining this part of the claim, so Im not going to ask them  to do anything further.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L1 and     
Miss L2 to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1566604