K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his home  emergency  insurance 
policy with Acromas Insurance  Company  Limited.
background
Mr H made  a claim under his policy on February 2018, as his boiler had stopped working. 
Acromas sent out a engineer who apparently diagnosed that a new fan was needed. This 
was fitted two days later and the boiler  was apparently left working. However,  Mr H says the 
boiler was faulty  again a couple of days later.  
There was also some extremely  cold weather in early  March 2018, which resulted in a burst  
pipe in the loft space  above the boiler. Acromas attended on 6 March 2018  to repair  that but 
while the engineer was in the loft space doing this, he slipped and fell part way through  the 
ceiling. 
Mr H says that this created a large hole in the ceiling above the boiler, and caused a 
significant amount  of water (which had leaked  onto the floor of the loft space from the burst  
pipe) to fall onto the boiler below  and the carpet. Mr H says his boiler was deemed  to be 
beyond economic repair due to this water damage. 
Acromas says its engineers elbow  went through the ceiling and accepted  responsibility  for 
the damage to the ceiling and to the carpet below. However, it says the boiler had frost 
damage, as it had been out of action for days prior to its arrival. There was no water in the 
pipes, as various fittings had burst due to the bad weather and it was not responsible for the 
damage to the boiler. 
Mr H had to replace the boiler at a cost of £2,000. Acromas paid a contribution of £250, 
which it says is all it is required to do under the policy.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that it be upheld,  as 
she thought the evidence  (including photos and video  provided by Mr H) wasnt enough to 
establish that the boiler was beyond  economic  repair due to the contactor coming through  
the ceiling. The investigator said there had been evidence of water on the boiler before 
Acromass engineer worked  on the pipes in the loft space; and that the boiler  casing and 
seals were in tact but there was water  damage to internal  components of the boiler (which 
would not therefore have  come from outside  the boiler).  
Mr H doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been referred to me. In 
response to the investigator, Mr H has also said that the leak was caused  by poor 
workmanship by Acromas. 
Ive summarised Mr Hs submissions (made in support of his initial complaint and in 
response to the investigator) below: 
On 5 March 2018  his own engineer stated there  was "no water  inside the boiler"
The Acromas engineer was in a rush and went into the garage roof space without 
appropriate ladders and soon  after crashed  through  the ceiling making a large hole, 
bringing down  surface  water  which got into the boiler.
He made  several repairs  to the burst pipes. The mains water was then turned back 
on and he left saying  another  heating engineer would  attend in the afternoon  to sort 
Ref: DRN17499532out the boiler. A few hours later a boiler engineer came, took one look at the boiler 
and declared it beyond economic repair as there was too much  water inside. He did 
not even switch the boiler on.
His own engineer  came out again  that evening. He told him that Acromas  had not 
carried out some repairs properly. In particular it had used compression joints, which  
he says are not advised for this kind of repair, one of which were found  to be loose 
and another had been tightened  too much. This was right behind  the boiler,  so when 
it was turned on the water would leak from that pipe and go directly  onto the boiler. 
Thats the only explanation of why the water would have got into the boiler  in such  a 
short space of time. As soon as the engineer  had turned  the water  on they had 
leaked into the boiler, so by the time the second engineer came  out on 6 March  
2018, it was full of water. Theres no other explanation given it was dry the day 
before. 
He provided a report which said gas engineer should always  cut broken pipe and 
solder new pipe for perfect repair compression is DiY- not engineering standard"
The policy  provides repairs up to £1,000 and so Acromas  should have exhausted  this 
limit first by replacing parts, to see if it could be repaired before declaring it BER.
The investigator asked  Acromas about  the compression joints. It said these are a recognised  
and approved fitting method, commonly used  in loft spaces due to the risk of fire from 
soldering fittings in an enclosed  space  with flammable insulation  materials  present. The 
investigator didnt  think  this changed anything, as she said there was still no substantive 
evidence that directly linked the water damage  in the boiler to anything done  by Acromas. 
Mr H says his engineer felt because the boiler was in an open  space and unrestricted, there  
was no danger of fire and so this type of repair should not have bene used; and in any event 
they had not been  done  properly. Mr H also said that compression joints  might be 
acceptable if done properly but these werent.
As the investigator  has been unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a copy of an independent engineers  report dated 5 March 2018, which 
says:
frozen pipes to the rear of the boiler
the boiler was clean  and dry
heat exchanger - slight crack - pressure  dropping  on start up
seals (appliance  case etc.) - water on top of casing but seal good, no ceiling water  found 
inside of boiler  fan(s)  needs replacing
I understand he was appointed to determine  why the fan had been  fitted  by Acromas and the 
boiler would  not start. 
This confirms that pipes  behind the boiler had frozen and that some  water from the burst  
pipes in the loft area had fallen onto the boiler but also that none had entered  the boiler.  
Ref: DRN17499533Acromas came back out on 6 March  2018  to repair the burst pipes and the boiler. The 
engineers report  says: 
Arrived to find boiler isolated and water  on garage ceiling. Due to weather several burst  in 
void above garage ceilings and pipes  had come out of compression fittings under boiler. Ive 
made various repairs to pipework, put water back on and ok. Boiler  wont  pressurise due to 
damages. Boiler wont turn on either  due to water damages.  Gas SE is attending. Unable to 
test boiler. Cold water  supply on. CR aware  of damage to ceiling.
The engineer also said that by the time he arrived  the pipes were dry- i.e. the water  had 
drained out of them  - and the ceiling  above  the boiler (and through  which the engineer fell) 
was saturated.  This report also says that there  were  compression joints under the boiler  
which had come out (presumably due to the frozen water inside the pipes) and water 
damage having already occurred. There is no evidence available to me that Acromas fitted 
those joints. 
After the incident,  another Engineer  visited the property and the report stated:
"Pipes had frozen and burst  in roof space above boiler  in the garage,  a  plumber has been 
out to repair  the pipe work today, however the boiler is severely water damaged with many 
components requiring replacement...boiler has been  confirmed  as BER. Note, plumber has 
damaged celling in garage."
Mr H says his own engineer came out again that same evening, as the secured pipe was still 
leaking, and recently  produced a report from him dated 6 March  2018. This was not provided 
previously; in earlier correspondence  Mr H says he got his engineer out but  he  didnt make  
an official report he just confirmed that the boiler  did look worse for wear but preferred to turn 
the boiler on & test properly, the circuit  board main  pcb was now wet but could easily be 
replaced none of which  was [Acromas] prepared  to do or even attempt It was as it was 
easier to just deem the boiler  Ber.
Mr A did not provide  this evidence before but says it is just his engineers  notes from the 
attendance on 6 March 2018  rather than a formal report. This report says:
Tradesman fell through loft space came to repair frozen pipes. He made DIY compression 
repair found 1 loose fitting hence water goes into the boiler!!!  (1 possible overtighten  new 
olive fitted)  we retighten the repair and informed customer the repair is poor[Acromas] to 
revisit and check water  main to house, as boiler is isolated if leaks  are done properly water  
should be able to switch back on without issues.
Gas engineer should always cut broken pipe and solder new pipe for perfect repair,  
compression is DIY- not engineering standard.
While this refers to poor compression fittings,  Acromass engineer had said these had come 
apart and caused  water  to enter the boiler  by the time he arrived. 
 
Acromas came out again on 10 March 2018:
"water was on and no pipes were leaking, all ok noticed boiler had been  switched back  on 
even though had label  on it saying  dangerous and not to, also water  all inside pcb from 
original leak so switched  it back off also checked  rest of plumbing in case of leak somewhere 
else no leaks found unable to contact customer to ask reason as to why he had called us out 
again but no leaks found in house."
Ref: DRN17499534Acromas came back out again on 12 March 2018 to check  all the work done on 6 March 
2018, including in the loft space and confirmed they were all okay  and there were no leaks. 
Having taken all this into consideration, I am not persuaded that there is enough evidence to 
establish that Acromass  engineer caused the damage to the boiler. Pipes had burst  in the 
loft space above the boiler and behind the boiler.  The pipes that Mr Hs engineer  has 
referred to as having been poorly  repaired appear to be the same ones that Acromass 
engineer said had come apart due to freezing behind the boiler.  And he said there was 
already water damage to the boiler.  
Mr H has also said that the water damage may have been  caused by Acromass  engineer 
falling through  the ceiling. The photos and other  evidence provided clearly show that the 
hole created by the engineer is not directly above the boiler.  Water  had already apparently  
come through the ceiling the day before  when the burst pipe emptied itself of water.  Mr Hs 
engineer had also found the leak from the pipe above had caused  water to pool on the top of 
boiler casing. Therefore,  I dont accept that the hole made  by Acromass engineer could 
have damaged the boiler directly, even  if there  was a significant amount of water  sitting on 
the floor of the loft space (which is disputed).  Mr H says Acromas  has accepted the damage  
to the carpet and so it must also accept the damage  to the boiler.  The carpet is below the 
boiler but water will spread in a carpet so even if the carpet directly below the boiler  was wet, 
this doesnt mean the water came  from directly above it. But in any event it also doesnt 
meant that water got into the boiler  that way.
I am not therefore  persuaded that him falling through the ceiling  in an area not directly 
above the boiler  caused water  to flood the boiler  and damage  internal  components  and 
render it beyond repair.  
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I am not satisfied that it has been 
established that Acromas  caused the boiler  to fail and be beyond economic repair. There 
was at least one burst pipe (caused by freezing weather) above the boiler and frozen  pipes, 
which had come apart,  leading to the boiler.  It seems to me more likely that these were the 
cause.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1749953