K822xComplaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited has provided misleading information  
about the bonuses applicable  to his pension plans.
Background 
Mr C holds three pension  plans with Aviva   references to Aviva  include the previous 
pension plan providers.  In August 2015 Mr C received a letter from Aviva in relation to plan P 
which concerned  the final bonus  available to him under the plan. The letter  said Aviva 
expected the extra  final bonus  to increase his policy benefits by up to 7.5%,  but this could 
change. It said the extra  final bonus would be worked out when he took his benefits.
Mr C was in touch with Aviva throughout 2016 and 2017 about  a number of issues,  which  
were the subject of other complaints. In September 2017 Mr C was arranging  to take a 
payment from plan P. He asked Aviva  about the final bonuses  payable on his plans. Avivas 
representative told Mr C the 7.5%  bonus  had been added to plan P in July 2015.  
Mr C queried this and asked why the letter had been sent in August 2015 if the bonus had 
been applied  in July 2015. He also thought this was inconsistent with the letter, which said 
the bonus was applied  when he took benefits. He said he still hadnt had an answer about 
whether this applied to his other  plans.  Mr C didnt  receive a satisfactory  response, so he 
complained.
Aviva responded explaining the increase to the final bonus would be applied  when he took 
his retirement benefits. It didnt think the letter sent in August 2015 was unclear about this. 
Mr C remained  unhappy and referred his concerns about this to our service. He didnt  think 
Aviva had addressed  the information hed previously been given about the bonus having 
been added  in July 2015.
Our investigator agreed that the communication Mr C had received on this point in 
September 2017 had been a bit misleading. He thought that Aviva ought to have  been  
clearer that the earlier response hed been given about the bonus having been  applied in 
July 2015 was a mistake. He recommended Aviva should  pay Mr C £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  He thought  this sum was reasonable as Mr C had received a satisfactory 
answer about when  the bonus was payable on 22 September 2017.
Aviva accepted this. Mr C ultimately  chose not to accept  the offer. He thought a higher sum 
of compensation  was due. He said Aviva hadnt actually logged his complaint, hed had to do 
it through our service. He also didnt agree that the 22 September 2017  response was clear.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the compensation 
recommended by the investigator is reasonable. So, Im not going to be asking Aviva to 
increase it. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN17851582I first wish to say that having  read the letter sent to Mr C in August 2015, I think  it clearly 
explains how the increased final bonus  would  be applied to plan P. But I can see why Mr C 
had questions after he was told by an Aviva representative that the increase had already 
been applied  in July 2015. That information  wasnt consistent with the letter. So, I think  it 
was reasonable  for Mr C to follow this up.
Mr C received a response on 22 September 2017, which affirmed the information provided in 
the letter of August 2015  the final bonus would be added when he took his pension  
benefits. I think this email clearly explained  the correct position. I know Mr C thinks using the 
word terminate was misleading. But in the email Aviva said:
As this is an additional  increase to the Final  Bonus,  it will only be applied  when you
terminate your pension  i.e. should  you transfer  or take your retirement  benefits  from this.
So, I think Aviva  made it clear what it meant by terminate here. And this was consistent with 
the message given  in the August 2015 letter.
I think Aviva  couldve acknowledged that the earlier information provided  to Mr C was 
incorrect, although I think this was implicit. But Im not persuaded this wouldve made much 
of a difference to Mr C as, in his view,  this was one of many mistakes Aviva  had made.  It 
seems to me he had lost faith in Aviva  by this point  and was finding it difficult  to trust any of 
the information it provided. So even  if Aviva had directly acknowledged  the mistake, I still 
think Mr C wouldve pursued the matter.
I accept that the mistake  caused Mr C some trouble and upset. But I think the £150  
recommended by the investigator fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. I say this 
because Mr C was told the bonus had been applied in July 2015  in an email  dated 
6 September 2017. This was put right just over two weeks later. So, I dont think  it had a 
significant impact.
I appreciate Mr C was unhappy  that his concerns werent originally treated as a complaint. 
But complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity  and I cant recommend compensation for 
poor complaint handling alone. Ive considered  the level of service  Aviva provided, and how 
long to took to address the concerns  Mr C raised.  But overall, I think £150  compensation 
reflects the magnitude of the mistake and the impact it had on Mr C.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has agreed to pay Mr C £150  for the trouble and upset  
caused by its mistake.  I think  this sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr C £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1785158