K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  payment  protection  insurance
(PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 2003.
I know that when  PPI was sold to Mr P, BOS was trading  as Halifax.  To keep things simple,
Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision.
background
A provisional  decision was issued in this matter on 25 February 2019. It was re-issued on 29 
March 2019 after a clerical error was noted  by Mr Ps representative from when the decision 
was processed.  
In that provisional  decision, I explained  why I didnt  intend to uphold  this complaint. I asked 
the parties for their comments and I invited  those representing Mr P to provide me with some 
further information about his medical  condition. No reply has been received from either party. 
 
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of this final decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding
this case.
Neither party has provided me with any further information or evidence  to consider. On that 
basis, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, I havent upheld Mr Ps complaint about BOS. I dont require it to 
take any further action in respect of this complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to him 
alongside a mortgage  in 2003. 
I know that when PPI was sold to Mr P, BOS was trading as Halifax.  To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
BOS for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Ref: DRN11006142Mr P disagreed with that view. And so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
Ive thought carefully about  all of the evidence  before me, but as things stand, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below. 
Mr P told us that he couldnt  remember how the PPI was sold to him. From the paperwork that BOS  
sent to us, it seems  likely that it was sold over the telephone.  I havent been given a call recording.  
Thats not unusual  and I wouldnt expect BOS to keep  such records for over 15 years. As Mr P 
doesnt remember what happened when the policy  was sold, Ive looked at the paperwork to help me 
decide whats  likely to have  happened. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr P would have known  the policy was optional  and he 
didnt have to buy it if he didnt want  it. As I said above,  Mr P told us he couldnt remember  what 
happened during the sale. But then in his response to our adjudicator,  he said hed been told just to 
sign the paperwork and return it to BOS. 
As the policy was sold over the telephone, for the cover to be set up, Mr P had to sign a document  to 
say that he wished to proceed  with the application for PPI. I think its clear from that document that 
the decision about whether to go ahead with the insurance was 
Mr Ps. And if he didnt want to buy the cover,  he could have decided not to return  that acceptance 
slip. As the paperwork makes it clear that Mr P had a choice about whether to buy the cover, I think 
the person selling it to Mr P would have also made that clear to him. 
BOS told us that it advised Mr P to buy this PPI cover. So it had to make sure it was suitable  for Mr 
Ps needs. To help me decide whether  it was suitable, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions  of the 
cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr P told us about his circumstances at the time.  
I can see that if hed had to make a claim  under this policy, Mr Ps mortgage repayments would  have 
been covered for up to 24 months for each claim  if he became unwell or if he lost his job. He told us 
that he would have received six months full pay and six months  half pay from work if he was unwell. 
So I think the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer  than the means  he already had in 
place from his employer. 
Mr P also told us that he had some  savings  he could have  used to repay  his mortgage if he was out of 
work. But with PPI, Mr P would have been able to use that money on his other essential expenditure 
at what  would  have no doubt been a very stressful time if he couldnt work. 
Ive also considered whether  Mr P would have been affected by any of the policys  exclusions.  With 
regard to medical  conditions, I can see that Mr P told us he suffered  from back pain and that condition 
was diagnosed in 2003.  
Our adjudicator looked  at this and said that she thought that such  a condition would have been 
covered by the PPI policy. With respect to our adjudicator, I dont  think  thats right.  The terms of the 
policy say that Mr P wouldnt  have been covered for a medical condition  that hed suffered from at the 
policys start date or in the 12 months before that time. 
As I said above, Mr P told us that he was diagnosed  in 2003. And I dont doubt that what  hes told us 
is what he honestly remembers about that diagnosis.  But I also have to take account  of the fact that 
its difficult to remember  precisely what happened such a long time ago. 
Ref: DRN11006143I can see that when Mr P applied for PPI, BOS recorded that he told them  he hadnt been diagnosed 
with a medical condition. So while I accept Mr P has told us accurately  when he thinks he was 
diagnosed, I dont think BOS  would have recorded that he didnt have a medical condition  if hed said 
he had. 
If I am wrong in making this assumption, I would  welcome further evidence from Mr P. In particular, it 
would be helpful if he could provide me with the following  information in response to this provisional 
decision: 
When in 2003 was he diagnosed with a back  problem? 
What was the nature  of that diagnosis?  
How was he treated  (for example, medication, physiotherapy,  specialist referral)? 
How did the back problem affect him in 2003? 
Had he taken any time off work because of this medical condition?  
I would also welcome any written medical  evidence  Mr P has to support that he was diagnosed with a 
medical condition in 2003. 
I havent seen anything unusual  about Mr Ps employment circumstances  that would have stopped 
him from making a successful  claim  if he needed to. And subject to any further information Mr P 
provides about his medical condition  in 2003, I think the recommendation for PPI was probably 
suitable for him at that time. 
BOS still had to give Mr P enough information about  the PPI policy so he could  decide for himself 
whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information  had to be fair, clear and not misleading. Its 
possible that BOS didnt tell Mr P everything it should have done about  the PPI. But I dont think more 
or better  information about the cover would  have put him off taking it out. Ive set out above how I 
think the cover  could  have been helpful if he couldnt work. And although I appreciate he doesnt now 
remember, I think Mr P probably  chose to buy PPI at the time. 
So taking all of this into account,  I currently  dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill look at any further 
information the parties send to me. But if that doesnt change my mind,  BOS wont need  to take any 
action to put things right for Mr P. 
my provisional  decision
Provisionally, I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 29 
April 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1100614