K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about post sent by Link Fund  Solutions Limited (Link) not reaching him and 
he believes  his pension  fund has been mis-managed.
background
Mr J had a pension with Link. In March 2018 Mr J was asked to complete  a Lifetime 
Allowance Declaration. He did so and this was received  by Link.  Link sent an 
acknowledgement to Mr J but he didnt receive  this. As Link didnt hear back  from Mr J, it 
didnt take any further action.
Mr J contacted Link again in June 2018  to request a retirement pack. Mr J says he was told 
one had already  been  sent, but as he hadnt  received this, he was told another  would be 
sent that day. Mr J didnt  receive it so he called  Link again a couple  of weeks later to ask for 
another pack to be sent. This one was received by Mr J.
Unhappy with this experience, Mr J complained to Link. He said it had put his information at 
risk by not sending post using a secure method. Mr J also complained that he believed  his 
fund hadnt grown  at the rate it shouldve done. He said he thought  this was due to the 
number of times the administrator had changed.
Link didnt agree the fund had been  mis-managed  or that Mr J had been charged each time 
the administrator  changed. It agreed it hadnt sent out a retirement pack  when Mr J first 
requested one, and apologised  for this. Mr J didnt accept this and referred his complaint to 
us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He didnt think  that the value of fund was 
due to changes  in the pension administrator.  He explained the first retirement pack  Mr J 
requested was never sent, so it hadnt in fact been lost. He also said Link wasnt required to 
send things using  a recorded service, and he thought the apology for not sending  the first 
retirement pack was sufficient. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So its been passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why and Ill address the two issues  
separately.
missing post
When whats happened is in dispute, and there is no firm evidence either way, I have to 
make my findings on the balance of probabilities. That is what I think  is most likely given the 
evidence I do have.
Ref: DRN19428932Mr J thinks at least two pieces  of post have gone  missing  the acknowledgement  of the 
Lifetime Allowance Declaration and a retirement pack. Ive seen copies of the first letter  Link 
sent to Mr J. The vast majority  of post that is correctly addresses reaches its destination. It 
was correctly addressed,  so it seems this was most likely lost in the post.  Thats very 
unfortunate for Mr J, but isnt something I can hold Link responsible for. I know  Mr J thinks  
Link should use a more secure method when  sending him information,  but I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Link to use standard post and not recorded delivery in these 
circumstances.
Ive also noted  Mr Js concerns about being  at risk of identity theft. But as Ive said,  Ive seen 
a copy of this letter,  and its brief and doesnt  contain any confidential information. So I think  
any risk to Mr J is low.
Link has told us the reason  Mr J didnt  receive a retirement pack  when  he first requested  it 
was because it failed  to send it. Ive not seen anything to suggest this isnt the case. And I 
have no reason to suspect this is anything other than human error. Link has apologised for 
this, which  I think is sufficient in this situation.
Ive been provided  with transcripts of the calls Mr J made to Link.  The only piece of post he 
was told has been sent and hasnt  been  received is the acknowledgement of the 
Lifetime Allowance Declaration. He asked for the retirement pack  and this wasnt received, 
when he called to chase this, he was told this would be sent again. I can understand why he 
feels he was led to believe  that this mustve been lost as well and I think Link couldve been 
clearer in confirming the first hadnt  ever been sent. But Link confirmed this wasnt  actually 
sent so I cant say this has put Mr J at risk of identity theft.  
the value of Mr Js pension funds
We dont normally look into the performance  of funds. I say this because  it wouldnt normally 
be appropriate for this service to become involved in disputes about  the legitimate exercise 
of a business reasonable exercise of its commercial  judgement in managing a fund, unless 
we had concerns  that a fund had been  mismanaged. 
I understand Mr J is unhappy  with the growth of the fund, but Ive seen nothing  to support 
Mr Js belief his funds  have been mis-managed. He is correct that the administrator has 
changed a number of times but he hasnt  provided any evidence  to support his belief these  
changes incurred additional charges. And Link confirmed this hasnt attracted further  
charges other than the annual management  charge which has always  been  applicable.  So I 
dont think the change of administrators has had a detrimental effect on the overall value of 
his pension fund.
Ref: DRN19428933my final decision
I know Mr J feels  very strongly about this, but my final decision is I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1942893