K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H (the partnership) complain about the consequential losses they say they have 
incurred as a result of being mis-sold  a base rate collar by HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
background 
The partnership brought a complaint within the FCA led review regarding the sale of the 
base rate collar.  HSBC  agreed to put the partnership  in the position as if theyd taken a 
replacement product (a cap) instead.  HSBC  offered to refund them over £117,000 plus 8% 
simple interest.  
The partnership accepted this basic redress. In respect of their claim for consequential loss 
HSBC offered to refund  the partnership £2,471 plus 8% simple interest for bank charges and 
accountancy fees. All other consequential  loss claims were rejected.
The partnership didnt  think  this was fair so referred  their claim to our service  for 
consideration. The partnerships key heads  of claim are as follows  
1.Loss of property value  between 2008  and 2012  
2.Loss of funds due to the forced  sale of the family home
3.Moving costs 
4.House rental funds paid over several  years
5.Additional HSBC charges levied relating to the relevant period 
6.Credit card interest  paid during the relevant period 
An adjudicator has already looked at this matter.  He didnt feel this was a complaint which he 
could uphold.
Unhappy with the adjudicators findings,  this matter  has now been passed  to me to consider. 
I can assure both parties that Ive looked at all the evidence which  has been submitted. 
Ultimately I have focused on what I consider to be the key issues  in dispute.  Just like the 
adjudicator I have only focused  on the losses potentially incurred by the partnership,  rather  
than any other separate legal entities.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to say that I too am unable to 
uphold this complaint for reasons in line with those already  expressed  by the adjudicator.
In order to uphold  the partnerships consequential loss claim  I need  to be satisfied  that the 
losses were caused  by the mis-sale  of the base rate collar. Im afraid Im just not persuaded 
that the base rate collar  caused the partnership to suffer the above  stated  consequential  
losses. Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think the material  events which eventually 
took place would have been  any different  if the replacement cap had been in place from the 
start. 
Just like the adjudicator  I still think their business would have entered into the CVA around 
June 2012 if the replacement cap had been sold at the outset.  Even accounting for the base 
rate collar  overpayments, HMRC debts  were substantial around that stage. From the 
Ref: DRN10869662evidence Ive seen  it seems financial difficulties pre-dated the base rate collar being taken 
out by the partnership. It does appear  profits werent  generated as hoped going  forward.   
HSBC has already offered to refund the partnership £2,471 plus 8% simple interest in 
respect of bank charges and accountancy  fees.  HSBC has agreed  to bring the interest 
calculations up to the date of settlement. If HSBC  believes  it is legally obliged to deduct  tax 
from the interest, it should send a tax deduction certificate with any payment. From the 
evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied this is sufficient and fair in the circumstances. Im therefore  
not minded to make any award.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the partnership  to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 October  2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1086966