K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and its 
representatives have  handled their buildings  insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs S made a claim after they noted cracks in their property. RSA appointed a 
structural engineer  to investigate the cause and nature  of the damage.  The engineer  said 
there had been  subsidence, which had damaged an extension. He didnt think it had 
damaged some bay windows.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with the handling  of the claim and with the conclusion  the 
engineer had reached. Amongst other things, they referred to conflicting reports. They 
wanted RSA to appoint an independent  structural engineer in order to protect their interests. 
RSA agreed that the reports conflicted. But it felt the claim was progressing correctly  and it 
wasnt prepared to pay for another engineer. 
Mr and Mrs S continued to dispute  the engineers findings and continued to ask RSA to 
appoint an independent engineer. RSA didnt change its position. Mr and Mrs S eventually  
got a report from their own structural engineer, who disagreed with RSAs engineers 
findings. In summary,  said the bay windows had been damaged  by subsidence  and that the 
property hadnt  been shown to be stable. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  get a response from RSAs engineer so they again complained to RSA 
about the handling of the claim. RSA agreed  that Mr and Mrs Ss claim journey hadnt been 
smooth. It also accepted  the claim for the bay windows and offered to reimburse Mr and 
Mrs S for the cost of their engineer. It further agreed  to re-instate the monitoring of the 
property and to carry out a CCTV survey on some drains.
There then came a period  when the claim didnt  progress  as correspondence went  back  and 
forth between Mr and Mrs S, RSA and RSAs engineer.  Mr and Mrs S raised various  issues  
with the engineer about their handling of the claim.  The engineer responded but Mr and 
Mrs S werent happy with the response so they raised issues  with the engineer  again. This 
cycle continued  until RSA told Mr and Mrs S the engineer wouldnt correspond  further  with 
them about  past mistakes. Mr and Mrs S then raised various issues with RSA (including 
them not wanting to deal with the engineer anymore) which RSA responded to. In summary:
it would  continue using the engineer and its representatives
it would  agree to pay for a CCTV survey  of the drains and for further  monitoring before 
repairing the damage
builders needed  to draw up a scope of repairs to include the bay window.
Mr and Mrs S agreed in principle to the CCTV, monitoring and another  builder assessing the 
damage. But they raised further queries  over the contractors RSA proposed  using for the 
CCTV and monitoring.  They  again raised  the issue of RSA paying for an independent  
structural engineer.
RSA maintained its position so Mr and Mrs S complained to us. They pointed out several 
parts of the claim they felt had been mishandled by RSAs representatives. Because  theyve 
lost trust in RSAs representatives they want RSA to pay for a structural  engineer  and a 
solicitor to ensure  that things are done correctly going forward.
Ref: DRN14266542Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt RSA had tried to 
accommodate Mr and Mrs Ss requests  and had agreed to move the claim forward  in line 
with Mr and Mrs Ss engineers report. Although he noted Mr and Mrs Ss concerns with the 
work going forward, our investigator was satisfied that RSA was entitled  to carry on using the 
representatives that had already been appointed. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our 
investigators conclusion  so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  provided a detailed  submission outlining  what  has happened throughout 
their claim. Ive read through that and noted everything theyve said.  But Im not going to 
comment on each and every point theyve made. Instead Ive looked at their dissatisfaction  
with RSAs (and its representatives) handling of the claim as a whole in order  to decide 
whether its proposal  to move the claim forward is fair.
Id also like to explain that I dont have any authority over RSAs representatives directly so I 
cant comment on what they should and shouldnt do going forward. Having said that, RSA is 
ultimately responsible  for the representatives it appoints so Im able to consider how its 
representatives have  handled things as part of my overall review  of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  used words such as cunning,  deceive, well-planned, deliberate  and 
bullying to describe RSAs representatives  actions, and its clear  theyve lost faith in the 
structural engineer  and the contractors RSA wants to use. I can see why theyre of that 
opinion  for example, there  are three  arboricultural appraisal reports that are slightly  
different in what they say and its not clear to me why the writer changed  the reports  (it looks 
like it was due to what the engineer said rather than the writers own observations). Theres 
also the fact that Mr and Mrs Ss engineer  reached  a different conclusion to RSAs engineer.
I havent seen  anything which persuades me anything underhand was going on. RSAs 
liability under  the terms of the policy is to pay for the cost of repairing  damage caused by 
subsidence. Ultimately  its Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to show how much that cost is  its 
not RSAs job to work that out for them. However, as is often the case  for this type of claim, 
RSA got various  experts to help ascertain what that liability  was. Mr and Mrs S obviously 
disputed that, but once  RSA had decided how much it felt it was liable for, it was for Mr and 
Mrs S to dispute that by proving otherwise.
RSA is entitled  to appoint whoever it wants to handle the claim  on its behalf. I dont think  its 
decision to continue using  the same engineer and contractors going forward is unfair. Mr and 
Mrs S are of course entitled to appoint  whoever  they want to handle the claim on their behalf 
and/or to represent  their interests.  But Im not going to make  RSA pay for that. Its also 
obviously Mr and Mrs Ss home  so they can allow, and refuse entry to, whomever they 
want. But if RSA wish to use the same  engineer  and contractors, and Mr and Mrs S frustrate 
that by not allowing them into or onto the property,  the claim wont move forward.
Mr and Mrs S have  made various  complaints and raised various concerns throughout the 
claim. Some of those have been justified (eg the bay windows  are now being  covered as 
part of the claim),  but I think others (eg the continued request  for RSA to appoint  an 
independent structural  engineer and/or a solicitor)  have only led to the claim being  delayed. 
Ref: DRN14266543Whilst I accept  the responses may not have been acceptable to Mr and Mrs S, Im satisfied 
that on the whole RSA adequately addressed Mr and Mrs Ss complaints and concerns. And 
its proposal that Ive outlined above in order to move  the claim forward  is fair and reasonable 
in my opinion. Im not therefore going  to make RSA do anything  more to resolve this 
complaint or to move the claim  forward.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1426654