K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained about an instalment loan he took out with Elevate Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny). 
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr F and Sunny had told us about this loan. Our 
adjudicator thought it was fair, given  this was Mr Fs first Sunny loan application,  that at this 
stage in his borrowing Sunny relied  on the information Mr F provided.  Taking  into account 
the loan amount, what Mr F had told Sunny about  his circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender, she didnt think Sunny lent irresponsibly to Mr F. So she didnt uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
Mr F mainly says that he received constant  emails and phone calls from Sunny  about 
borrowing money and he didnt decline due to being  in trouble financially. He says checks  
werent done and he wasnt asked if he had a debt problem  which  he did. To resolve his 
complaint Mr F would like Sunny to pay him money   including  an amount for stress and 
inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide  this 
complaint.
Sunny provided  Mr F with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use. Sunny needed to 
make sure that it didnt  provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr F could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Fs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F took out this loan for £500 in August 2016.  The loan was due to be repaid over a period 
of around six months. I understand that Mr F repaid the loan early. Before lending  to Mr F, 
Sunny asked Mr F for information on his financial  situation, such  as his monthly income and 
his outgoings.  It also asked about any other credit commitments and carried out credit 
checks. 
Ref: DRN18477652Sunny says it agreed to Mr Fs application  after carrying  out all the proper checks. And it 
relied on information Mr F provided about  his monthly income and expenditure as well as 
information obtained from credit reference  agencies. It says the information Mr F provided 
showed that hed be able to comfortably make the loan repayments. And in these 
circumstances it was reasonable  to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr F and Sunny have said.  
This was his first loan with Sunny. So I think Sunny could potentially  rely on information Mr F 
provided. Looking  at the monthly repayment  amounts of around £164,  and the loan term, 
and taking into account the information  it seems Mr F told Sunny about his monthly  income 
and what he was paying out, this repayment amount looked comfortably affordable for Mr F.  
Im sorry  that Mr F had a problem with debt and that repaying the loan was difficult  for him. 
I accept that in reality  Mr Fs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either  in 
the information he provided, or the other  information  Sunny says it obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Sunny couldve only decided  Mr Fs lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time.  And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Sunny to ask Mr F to prove 
what he was declaring or check  other information  sources to verify  what  he had told them (or 
omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Sunny to lend  especially as there  wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information  it had, to suggest Mr F wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
Mr F has mentioned that hes unhappy  with the way Sunny spoke to him during phone calls 
when he told Sunny about his difficulty paying  the loan. Ive listened  to those call recordings. 
In the first call, Sunny cancelled  the automatic payment arrangement  that was set up to stop 
any further money being taken out of Mr Fs bank account to pay the loan. Sunny also put 
the account on hold for thirty  days which meant the balance  was immediately frozen and no 
further interest was charged to the account.  Sunny also passed on to Mr F details  of a 
charity which  provides free debt advice - StepChange (www.stepchange.org). When Mr F 
called Sunny a second time,  he said he was getting help from StepChange and he just 
needed the loan details   which  Sunny  provided.  Sunny also said it would keep  the account 
on hold, continuing  the freeze on the loan balance,  to allow  time for StepChange  to get in 
touch.
I can appreciate that Mr F mightve found these difficult calls to make. But I think  Sunny 
responded helpfully when he made contact. And although I understand hes unhappy at 
whats happened, I dont consider theres  sufficient reason to award Mr F compensation for 
this.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr F has said,  including  
the comments made in response to our adjudicators  view. I appreciate he feels  strongly 
about this complaint. I understand  that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. In my 
decision Ive dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome  of this 
complaint. I hope  that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached 
my decision.
Ref: DRN18477653my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1847765