K820x#14complaint
Ms P and Mr H complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires hasnt 
assisted them with the difficulties that they have repaying the mortgage. Ms P would like 
assistance from BM in her financial difficulties that would  allow  her to keep the property.
background
Ms P and Mr H have a repayment mortgage  with BM on a property.  They are separated. 
Ms P continued to live there with her daughter.  But in 2016 Ms P inherited  a property from 
her aunt which she moved in to. Ms P let out the property for £695 per month and the 
monthly mortgage payment is £670.  Since October  2018 Ms Ps benefit payments ceased  
and Ms P asked for the mortgage to be transferred to interest-only  for a short period. BM 
didnt agree because the arrears were about £14,000.
BM had an order for possession on 10 May 2010 and on 26 March 2019  got an order 
allowing it to enforce its order. Ms P believes that in this time of her financial difficulties that 
BM wont assist her. Ms P wants to keep  the property but BM has told her she needs  to 
increase her monthly  payments to £767.46  to pay off her mortgage by the end of the 
mortgage term which she cant do. Ms P and her daughter have health issues.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he didnt feel that 
BM had done  anything wrong.  Ms P disagreed  and asked  for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P and Mr H have a serious arrears problem  with the mortgage on this property. They  
have separated and Ms P is the one who is involved in the property. Ms P is in financial 
difficulties and is not receiving benefits.  Ms P has asked that BM put the account on interest-
only to give her some breathing space. The problem with that is it has been tried before but 
the result  was that the arrears  increased.  
Ms Ps problem is that she is in serious arrears and on top of that she has no income. 
Realistically at this stage  Ms P cant make  a reasonable  proposal  to clear the arrears and 
simply delaying dealing  the matter would seem  to make the situation worse for her as her 
arrears and debt to BM will increase.  In the absence of workable proposals I can understand 
why BM took the step of applying to court  to renew  the possession  order. 
Ms P isnt happy  with the actions of BM. I understand that she has health issues since 2010. 
Part of Ms Ps complaint  is that BM didnt contact her about the arrears for some time.  There 
is evidence that BM sent out letters and tried to contact  Ms P but given the growing size of 
the arrears - now in excess  of £14,000  - I would have expected Ms P to have been aware of 
them. Ms P would also have got annual mortgage  statements  setting out the position of the 
mortgage.
 In any case, given Ms Ps lack of income I cant see how she would have been able to make  
a satisfactory payment  plan that would  address the arrears. I see that these arrears were  
Ref: DRN15229842about £3,000 in 2011 and obviously climbed in the meantime. This would indicate  that BM by 
withholding from enforcing the 2010 court order has been sympathetic to Ms P throughout 
this period.
The court made an order in March 2019. Ms P has issues with how that order was obtained 
and her lack of opportunity to challenge  that order. But its not our role to interfere with the 
operation of the court processes and Ms P should  direct any queries she may have about 
that order to the court  offices.
I am sorry  to hear that Ms P has health  issues but note that she hasnt been living in the 
property that is subject to the mortgage. There is a serious arrears  situation on the 
mortgaged property. I hope Ms P may be able to sort out her issues as regards benefit  
payments. That hopefully may assist her day to day living. But the problem will remain  with 
this mortgage  if she still wants  to continue with it. I have a great deal of sympathy with Ms P 
because of all the issues affecting her. But given the circumstances I dont believe that BM is 
doing anything  wrong in the way it is managing her account. So, I cant  fairly uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1522984