K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr K to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Mr Ks complaint is made, on his behalf,  by his representative. 
background
During 2013, Mr K was put in touch  with AFFS by an unregulated  third party.  It seems  the 
third party had told him about  investing his pension in store pods. So he spoke to AFFS 
about this. An adviser from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  It then advised  
Mr K to transfer his existing personal  pension plan to a SIPP. This was so he could then 
invest in store pods,  an unregulated investment. 
The SIPP was opened in November 2013. Mr Ks existing pension  of £21,665.91 was 
transferred to the SIPP early the following month.  In January 2014 £15,000 was then 
invested in store pods. In March 2014 AFFS advised  Mr K to invest a further £4,747.28 in a 
Nucleus portfolio. This investment  was made  a couple of months later. The store pods now 
appear to be illiquid. Mr K is worried hes lost the value  of his investment. 
So in November 2016 Mr K complained, via his representative, to AFFS about  the advice 
hed received. In brief,  he said: the advice was unsuitable for his circumstances; AFFS 
hadnt followed the relevant rules and regulations; it had tried to restrict the advice it had 
given; the assessment of his situation  and of his attitude to risk wasnt adequate; his attitude 
was wrongly stated as adventurous;  and, the high SIPP  fees alone made the transfer 
unsuitable. So Mr K wants compensation for the money he says hes lost. 
AFFS rejected his complaint. Again in brief, it said: the SIPP  was recommended so Mr K 
could access his tax free lump sum; he expressly  asked for no advice on the store pods 
investment; and, he ignored  the warnings given  by AFFS about the investment, but still 
chose to go ahead with it. This meant  AFFS wasnt responsible for any loss Mr K might  have 
suffered. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with the response from AFFS. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. He thought  the complaint should be upheld  as the 
SIPP wasnt  suitable for Mr K. In summary, the adjudicator said:  AFFS needed  to have 
assessed the suitability of the intended store pods  investment; Mr K wasnt happy with the 
level fees on his current pension  and it wasnt made clear to him that the SIPP  fees would 
be significantly higher;  Mr K didnt have  an adventurous attitude to risk; and, he didnt  have 
the capacity for his pension to lose its value. The adjudicator went on to explain what AFFS 
needed to do to put things  right. 
In reply, Mr K, via his representative, didnt make  any further  comments about his complaint. 
No response at all was received from AFFS or its representative.  As AFFS hasnt agreed 
with the adjudicators view, this complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN10737032First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
was AFFS advice to Mr K to transfer  his existing pensions to a SIPP  suitable?  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill now turn to our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative for AFFS argued 
that the store pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a designated  
investment. This meant the advice to invest in store pods didnt fall within  the relevant 
regulations  and even  if it did, AFFS had adhered to the expected  standards. 
But that isnt the activity  Im looking at. Im looking at the advice to Mr K to open  a SIPP.  That 
is a regulated activity.  It doesnt matter whether or not the store  pods investment was a 
specified investment  or a designated investment. 
The rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice given  
to Mr K needed to take into account the relevant rules. This was irrespective  of whether or 
not the store pods investment was a regulated  product.  The regulations required the advice 
given to Mr K to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get enough  information  about his 
circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr K. This was signed by him in October 2013. It recorded 
some of his personal  circumstances. But not much detail was included. For instance,  it didnt 
include Mr Ks outgoings.  While it stated  that he owned two properties and two cars no other  
details were included.  For example, its not clear how much  the properties  were worth, if they 
were mortgaged or owned outright,  if they were rented,  or if they were  jointly  owned. 
Similarly with the cars, theres no mention of their value, if they were on finance or owned 
outright, and if Mr K owned them both or if one was his wifes.  Also,  there was no record of 
Mr K having  any other assets, savings or other  investments apart from his existing pension 
plan. 
The fact find stated that while Mr Ks existing pension plan was of value, its benefits didnt 
represent a significant proportion of his financial wealth. But its not clear  at all how this 
conclusion was arrived at. As Ive just said, theres incomplete information about  his other 
assets, savings  and investments. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment values  will fluctuate according  to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
Underneath was a handwritten note:
Ref: DRN10737033Although I would not consider myself  a high risk investor in regards to my overall  assets. I 
understand that to achieve  my goals in retirement and would have to take higher risks with 
my pension.[sic]
The following  was also ticked:
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
This was also followed  by another handwritten note:
I have very little understanding of investment markets.  But I like the idea of a fixed return  
offered by alternative  investments.  They  have  been  explained to me and make more sense 
than traditional pensions.
Again, Im not sure how this position was arrived at. Theres no detail on how Mr Ks attitude 
to risk was assessed. In the complaint letter to AFFS, it states his attitude to risk isnt 
adventurous. The available evidence points to him having very limited  investment 
knowledge, if any at all. Mr K certainly  doesnt seem  to have invested  in high risk speculative 
products before. Other than his existing pension,  theres nothing to show he had any other 
investments whatsoever. So I dont think I can rely on the fact find recording his attitude to 
risk as adventurous.  
Im satisfied that given  Mr Ks lack of investment experience, he was relying on AFFS to give 
him suitable advice.  Whatever his actual attitude  to risk was, it was also important for AFFS 
to look at Mr Ks capacity to actually  take that risk. I can see from the fact find that his yearly  
income was around  £30,000. I can also see his wife worked part time, but was expecting 
their first child the following year. As Ive said above,  the fact find states Mr Ks existing 
pension wasnt a significant proportion of his financial  wealth. But Im not satisfied this was a 
realistic record  of his situation. 
Mr K had relatively modest income, and an apparent  lack of any other savings or 
investments, Also, he and his wife had a child on the way. So I think its more  likely than not 
that his existing pension was a very significant  part of his financial wealth. Im satisfied Mr K 
could ill afford for his investment  to fall in value,  or be lost completely. 
In a section which asked if Mr K was intending to invest in an unregulated or alternative 
investment, the answer Store First was given. This section went on to say that Mr K 
thought the alternative investments seemed more straightforward. Hed become disillusioned 
by his existing  providers lack of service  and performance invested in mainstream bonds. 
Again, with Mr Ks lack of investment experience, Im not satisfied this was an accurate 
record of his actual  situation. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  Ive assumed this was provided to Mr K after 
the fact find was completed. The copy Ive seen isnt signed or dated. It said Mr K especially 
liked the control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active  role in 
choosing what he deemed  were suitable  investments  rather  than the traditional  funds in his 
existing plan. 
The investment strategy section stated Mr K sought advice from AFFS about the intention of 
investing in commercial property, storage pods in particular. It said he hadnt sought  advice 
about the suitability of this investment and had stated he was an experienced investor  who 
understood the additional risks associated  with such an investment. But this is directly 
contradicted by the fact find. As Ive already said, this stated Mr K had no, or very little, 
Ref: DRN10737034experience or understanding  of investment markets. The beginning of the financial planning 
report also said he had limited knowledge of investments although  he understood the basics. 
Even after the risks were  explained to Mr K, with his limited knowledge of investments, Im 
not satisfied he would  have had a good  enough understanding  of the risks to adequately 
judge the suitability of the store pods investment. He would have been heavily reliant on 
AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pod investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mr Ks pension  assets bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Ks fund shouldnt be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I can see that a couple  of months after Mr K made the store pods investment, AFFS did 
recommend that he should make an additional investment in a Nucleus portfolio. This was 
for £4,747.28. This investment went ahead in the middle of May 2014. 
While dealing with this complaint, Im very aware that the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Mr K. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said: 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating .
Im satisfied it wasnt possible  for AFFS to advise  Mr K on the suitability of the SIPP  without 
also considering  how he planned to invest. Its very clear  to me that AFFS knew all along  
that Mr K intended to invest in store pods. With this in mind, I dont think it was suitable to 
advise Mr K to transfer his existing pension into a SIPP to allow him to make  this investment. 
 
AFFS says it did set out some risks of investing  in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk. 
Ref: DRN10737035The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return. 
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnoccupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees,  service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees. 
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity. 
 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company. 
As Ive already  said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I dont think this goes  far enough. There  was no warning to Mr K that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk. Given Mr Ks limited  investment experience,  Im 
not satisfied he realised the extent of the risk he was taking with his existing pension. AFFS 
should have been much clearer  in its warnings to him. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I think it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  with 
Mr Ks low capacity  for loss. AFFS identified this type of investment as inherently illiquid. The 
available evidence doesnt show me that Mr K was fully aware of the risks involved in 
investing in store pods. Im satisfied the investment wasnt suitable for him  and thats what 
AFFS should have  told him. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also dont think  transferring Mr Ks existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. On the fact find, Mr K was asked how happy he was with 
the level of charges on his current pension plan. On a scale of one to five, with one being not 
at all, and five being very, an answer  of one was given. 
The annual charge on Mr Ks existing pension  was 1%. When he transferred to the SIPP  he 
was had to pay £1,200  to AFFS. This was on top of the initial scheme  fees of £859.99 and 
solicitors fees of £571. Together, these fees were more than 12% of the amount Mr K 
transferred to the SIPP. If Mr K wasnt happy  with the 1% fee on his existing pan, 
transferring to the SIPP wouldnt have  helped in any way at all. It only increased what  he 
needed to pay. 
Ive also thought about AFFS statement in its response to Mr Ks complaint that the SIPP 
was recommended so he could  access his 25% tax free lump  sum. I dont accept this was 
correct. The facts and evidence simply dont back this up. Mr K was 40 years old when  the 
advice was given.  Theres nothing to show there was any reason or need for him to take a 
tax free lump sum. Subsequent events  showed that he invested store pods. Then AFFS 
Ref: DRN10737036recommended that the rest of his money  was invested in the Nucleus portfolio. He didnt 
take any tax free cash. 
Im satisfied that given  a realistic assessment of Mr Ks attitude  to risk as balanced, or 
medium, a standard  personal pension would have been suitable for his needs. I think  the 
extra charges normally associated with a SIPP werent justified.  I think  suitable advice 
should have been not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been  given,  I dont see any 
reason why Mr K would have transferred his existing pension  to the SIPP.  There would 
simply have been  no need for the SIPP. So the advice  to open a SIPP  was unsuitable for his 
circumstances. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr K into the position  he would likely now be in had he been given suitable 
advice. I think if Mr K had been  given  suitable  advice, he would have kept his previous 
pension. 
AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mr Ks previous pension plan, 
assuming it hadnt  been transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP investments, 
including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the current 
notional value of Mr Ks previous pension plan. 
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Ks pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
I think its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Ks pension  plan. If 
thats the case, it should pay the amount  direct  to him. But if it had been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income when Mr K takes  the benefits. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ks marginal rate of tax in retirement. I 
think hes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mr K would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Since the store pods investment is now illiquid  it cant readily be sold on the open market   
its value should  be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS 
to Mr K. AFFS  can then arrange to take ownership of the store pods investment. If thats  not 
possible, then Mr K can sign an undertaking that he will pay AFFS any future  disbursements 
he may get from the store pods investment. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP.  AFFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. 
I think its very likely  Mr K will have to maintain  the SIPP for a period of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
Ref: DRN10737037to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Mr K five years  worth 
of SIPP  fees to compensate him for these costs.  
AFFS should also Pay Mr K £250  for the disruption  caused to his retirement  planning. This is 
around the amount our service typically awards in these situations. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple  
format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr K how much has been  taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr K a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr K as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1073703