K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card in October 2002.
background
The policy was added  to Miss Ss credit card account when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
She said, in summary,  she didnt  need  PPI because  she couldve made  her repayments out 
of her sick pay. She said if shed been told PPI was optional, she wouldve declined it. She 
also said she wasnt told about the costs and benefits of the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think Egg made Miss S aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. Ive seen 
a copy of the screenshots that were in use at the time Miss S applied for her credit card.  
Miss S wouldve had to select the Yes to PPI or No to PPI option  to move forward with 
her credit card application. Both boxes were  equally prominent. Ive seen a copy of the 
banks records from the time of sale. These  show that Miss S selected the Yes box for PPI. 
Its understandable  that Miss S doesnt remember that now, so long after the event. But, on 
balance, I find that Miss S probably knew at the time she had a choice about  protecting her 
card repayments and she chose to do so. So, I cant fairly uphold  her complaint on this 
ground.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
But, it still had to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading about  the policy 
so she could decide for herself if she wanted  to buy it.
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Miss S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  see that this wouldve made a difference  to her decision to take 
out the policy. I say this because on the on-line  application, after the section where Miss S 
was asked to decide  about the PPI, the cover was broadly described. The cost was set out 
and there  was information about  the benefits  offered.
Miss S was eligible to take out PPI.  I think Miss S couldve have benefitted from everything 
the policy offered.  So, I dont think  having  better information about  these things wouldve put 
her off taking  it out. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Miss S was too ill to 
work or she was made unemployed.
Miss S said she wouldve got benefits through work and had some  savings, so didnt need 
PPI. The PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits. And it wouldve allowed 
her to use her savings to meet other household expenses. She said her parents couldve  
helped with her repayments  too. I havent  placed  any reliance on this, because help of this 
Ref: DRN10419202kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes. So I think PPI wasnt inappropriate, 
in her circumstances
I think, the costs  couldve been explained more clearly. Miss S was told that she would be 
charged £0.74 per £100 of the monthly balance. So, I think  it likely that she considered  the 
cost affordable. And, looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss S, I think  it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information  had been provided on 
the costs. On balance,  I think  shed still have  taken out the policy.  
This means  Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss S 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss S about that. Because 
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Miss S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1041920