K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them an Plus 
packaged bank  account in 2009.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and didnt think HSBC had mis-sold 
the Plus account.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision in more  detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr and Mrs W was given a clear choice in taking this 
account. At this point,  it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened.  When  the parties to a 
complaint disagree  about what happened  (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from 
the time,  I have to think about what I have been  provided with, what I do know and the wider  
circumstances at the time. In other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened having weighed  up what  both Mr and Mrs W 
and HSBC have  been able to provide  me with.  
  
Mr and Mrs W upgraded to the Plus account  from a free one. So I think Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve known HSBC  did free accounts.  Overall and having weighed  everything up, I think 
its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W agreed to upgrade to the Plus account after they were 
provided with a fair choice. 
When Mr and Mrs W were sold the Plus account  the main  benefits it included were  
preferential overdraft rates, fee free overseas cash withdrawals  and travel  insurance.         
Mr and Mrs W had an overdraft which they used.  So the preferential  overdraft rate is likely to 
have been useful for them. 
Ive seen what Mr W has said about  not travelling abroad. But the questionnaire initially 
completed by Mr and Mrs W said they travelled at least once  a year.  And it also said that 
they bought separate  travel insurance  as Mr W already had a medical condition. I dont think  
that Mr Ws condition was excluded  from cover. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W couldve  
got some  benefit  from the travel insurance.  And while Ive seen what  Mr and Mrs W have 
said about Mr W being a vehicle technician, I think that they couldve found the breakdown 
cover useful as it provided a recovery service. 
Ive seen what Mr and Mrs Ws said about  having  other insurance.  But I think  its likely       
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  been told about most, if not all, of the benefits on the account in 
order to make it appear as attractive  as possible. After all HSBC was trying  to persuade 
them to take a fee paying account  when  he most  likely knew he didnt have to. 
Ref: DRN14405632The best way to do this wouldve been by telling them about what theyd get for the monthly 
fee. As Mr and Mrs W would more likely than not have  been told what  the account included, I 
cant hold HSBC responsible if Mr and Mrs W paid for other cover elsewhere.
Overall I think  that Mr and Mrs W did use some  of the benefits included on the Plus account 
and they were eligible for and couldve benefitted from some of the others too. Given  all of 
this and while I acknowledge  Mr and Mrs W might not have  been  told absolutely  everything 
they needed to know about  all the benefits, I do think they were told enough to know  what 
they were agreeing to. 
Mr and Mrs W may believe they didnt benefit as much  theyd  initially  hoped and expected to. 
And given  what they mayve since read and heard about packaged  accounts  and Payment  
Protection Insurance (PPI), I can understand why they may believe their account  was mis-
sold. But I think they chose to take the account  while having a decent  understanding  of what  
it included. So I want to reassure Mr and Mrs W that having looked  at everything provided  
and thought about what theyve said, I dont think the Plus account was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1440563