K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich)  has poorly handled a claim she made  
under her travel insurance policy. 
background
She has been represented  when  bringing  this complaint to our service. So to keep things 
simple, Ill refer to her and her representative  collectively as Mrs D unless specified.  
Mrs D has complained to our service about both her airline and her insurer. To avoid any 
confusion, I want  to be clear that I have only considered a complaint  against Zurich. The 
airline itself is not within the scope of what our service  can consider, so I wont  comment on 
its actions any further within  my decision.  
In April 2019 Mrs D was travelling abroad flying from the UK. While at the airport and being 
assisted onto the plane, Mrs Ds cabin bag, containing important medicine, was left behind. 
Mrs D reported the lost bag to her insurer (Zurich). Zurich said it wouldnt be able to assist 
with the return  of Mrs Ds bag, but it said the insurance policy  did provide cover for the 
replacement of essential items, subject to certain conditions.  So it asked for supporting 
documents and said it would  consider the claim.  
Following some back and forth correspondence  by email Zurich  considered  the claim and 
agreed to cover the cost of the replacement medicine Mrs D had purchased.  But it said it 
wouldnt cover  any costs  related to sending the bag to Mrs D as this wasnt  covered by the 
policy. And it said Mrs D should instead claim this from the company that was responsible for 
her transportation  the airline.
Subsequently one of Mrs Ds relatives tracked  the bag to the lost property department  of the 
airport, and had this sent to her via courier. Mrs D then complained to our service. She said 
her relatives had gone to great  lengths  and personal  costs (around £130) to send her bag to 
her. Mrs D said these costs shouldve been  covered, and she asked for compensation to 
account for the inconvenience.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ds concerns and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said Zurich had settled  the claim fairly. Mrs D disagreed and said she should be awarded  the 
policy limit (£300) of the cover, alongside  compensation.  And she said we should consider 
replacement costs to include the associated costs of sending the item to her. Because 
Mrs D disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Like most insurance policies Mrs Ds travel policy covers her for certain insured events. This 
includes cancellation cover, emergency  medical  assistance, travel delay and others.  The 
aspect she has claimed under is for personal possessions delay. For this, the policy says:
Ref: DRN10458932We will pay up to the limit for replacement of essential items if your personal possessions 
are temporarily lost on the outward  journey. 
Zurich has accepted Mrs Ds claim and that her medicine was an essential item. So it agreed 
to cover the cost of the replacement medicine  (around £20).
Mrs D has asked Zurich to cover  the cost of transporting her luggage to her. Having read the 
policy carefully Im satisfied it doesnt provide  cover  for this situation. So while Mrs D and her 
relations may have  incurred costs related to transporting her bag, I wouldnt  expect  Zurich  to 
cover them. 
Mrs D said Zurich should increase its settlement to the full value of the policy limit (£300). 
But from what Ive seen  it has already settled the cost of the replacement medicine at the 
price it cost Mrs D. So I see no reason for it to provide her with anything  above this. 
Mrs D said it would  be fair to consider the definition of replacement in this situation  to 
include the relevant  transport  costs of the bag. But I disagree with her interpretation.  And I 
dont think it would be fair to direct  Zurich to cover costs related to an uninsured event.
So overall Im satisfied Zurich has acted  fairly  and reasonably  when settling this claim, and 
Im not directing  it to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1045893