K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr T says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him the MPPI.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint  as Mr T didnt agree, the complaint  has 
been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr T says that had he known hed taken out an MPPI product he would not have proceeded 
with the policy.  Santander isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and businesses  arent  required to keep 
records indefinitely. But because of the lack of information, I dont have enough to say that 
Santander didnt  give Mr T a choice in taking  out the MPPI, so I cant uphold his complaint  
for this reason.
Santander probably recommended the MPPI to Mr T, so it would have  had to check  that the 
MPPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
MPPI and he seems to have had a need  for the cover
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr T about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI  to Mr T.
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments, but these points dont change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1941178