K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their loan.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs M took out a loan with Halifax - which later became part of Bank of 
Scotland. At the same  time Mr and Mrs M took out PPI to cover Mr Ms income  and protect 
their loan payments  in the event Mr M couldnt work through  accident, sickness or if he lost 
his job.
The policy cost £17.10 a month and it provided  a benefit to approximately match  Mr and Mrs 
Ms monthly loan payment of £182 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for accident or sickness  for up to 60 
months and for unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms loan and the PPI policy ended in 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate  
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs M disagree so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr and Mrs M 
with enough information about  the policy so they could make an informed decision about it. It 
also had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable  for them based on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in July 2000.  I dont  know what Bank of Scotland  said to Mr and Mrs 
M but I have the application form and agreement  for the loan and both show  the PPI as 
optional. And Mr and Mrs M have signed a separate box on the application form to say they 
want the PPI.
So I think it is more likely  than not Bank  of Scotland presented the policy as optional and that 
Mr and Mrs M chose  to have it. 
Ref: DRN19485122did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs M properly advised  
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs M lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
M. I also dont  know what information Mr and Mrs M were given about PPI. For example 
whether they were  told about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover or if the 
policys costs and benefits were made clear to them, though I can see the costs of the PPI 
were shown separately on the credit agreement. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs M agreed to 
take the cover out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if they received 
everything they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Bank  of 
Scotland recommended to Mr and Mrs M that they take out PPI to cover Mr M. I accept Mr 
and Mrs M may not have  been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and needs at the time,  I think  the 
policy cover  for Mr M was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs M would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Bank  of Scotland had given them  
more information.  My reasons are as follows:
Mr M was eligible for his cover and all its benefits
Mr M was employed and in good  health at the time, so it doesnt  appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr M had up to 6 months  of full time and 6 months part time sick pay entitlement  
from his employer, which could  have helped them make  the loan payments if Mr M 
was off work ill. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay and 
for longer  than his employer if necessary  up to 60 months for accident and 
sickness. Mr and Mrs M had limited  other  means to help them if Mr M lost his job and 
the policy provided their repayments for up to 12 months  for each  claim if he did. So I 
think Mr and Mrs M had a need for Mr Ms cover and that it would  have been  useful  
to them  if Mr M found he was unable to work. It could have helped  them  financially at 
what would be a difficult time.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have agreed to something without having some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £17 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs M may not have  been treated fairly and reasonably by Bank  of Scotland  in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr and Mrs M would have been  in the same position if Bank of 
Scotland had done more and properly advised and informed them  - I think  they would have 
still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs M have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their loan, so I make no award.
Ref: DRN19485123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1948512