K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs complaint is that Marks  & Spencer Financial Services  Plc (MSFS)  was wrong  to 
place a security block on a payment from her account, and thereafter provided her with poor 
customer service  in resolving matters. 
background
A payment Miss C tried to make  from her MSFS account in November 2018 was blocked for 
security reasons. MSFSs fraud team then tried to contact Miss C to discuss  and resolve  
matters, but was unable to. 
Miss Cs unhappy the block was placed,  and for the length of time it then took MSFS to sort 
matters out for her. She says during this time  circa two weeks  she had no access to the 
money in her account, and that this caused her worry and inconvenience. She also said 
MSFS failed to call her back when promised; took too long to respond to her urgent emails; 
and kept her on hold on the telephone  for unreasonable  lengths  of time  all while  she was 
under stress trying to deal with this urgent matter.
She complained to MSFS and it said it stood by its security decision to block the attempted  
payment, but it did acknowledge  it failed to call Miss C back  when it said it would, and didnt 
respond timeously to emails, thus providing  poor service. It paid her £75 in compensation for 
this. 
Miss C didnt think this was enough, so the complaint came to our service. 
Our investigator considered everything both parties said, and concluded that MSFS hadnt 
been wrong to follow its security processes  and place a block  on Miss Cs attempted 
payment. He also noted that after this, when the parties were  trying to resolve matters and 
Miss C says she didnt receive  a call-back  she was promised, or responses  to her emails,  
and kept on telephone hold for excessive amounts of time, MSFS did attempt to speak with 
Miss C on a number of occasions but was unable to. And that when  it finally did, Miss C 
failed to give the correct security  information  needed  to access her account  and have things 
put right.
He said he thought the £75 MSFS had already paid Miss C was fair compensation for what  
had happened  when she tried to get the block lifted, and that he couldnt uphold  the 
complaint.
Miss C still didnt think this was enough. She believed the experience  shed had warranted 
compensation of £300. While  our investigator  didnt  agree, he put the proposal to MSFS and 
it responded saying  it believed  what it had already  paid was enough. 
As the parties couldnt  agree, the complaints come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our adjudicator  that theres no evidence  to suggest 
MSFS acted wrongly or unfairly in placing the block on Miss Cs account,  and that its 
Ref: DRN17524302already acknowledged its poor customer service in the payment of £75 its made to her. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything more. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of Miss Cs account, which  allow it to place a payment 
block as it did here.  I believe,  given the circumstances, that MSFS acted  in good faith in 
placing the block on the payment, and that had matters thereafter  not become  so 
complicated with failed call-backs; repeated  attempts to speak with Miss C; and lack of 
correct security info given by her when  successful contact was eventually made, the block 
could and should have been lifted quickly  and easily. 
Unfortunately, thats not what happened. But that doesnt make the original block on the 
payment wrong,  nor does it make MSFS entirely responsible for the failure  to sort matters 
out expeditiously. I can see that it at least tried, and I think  its fair Miss C herself shares  
some of the responsibility  for this.
I should also add that while Miss C says she didnt have access  to her MSFS account during 
the time it took to resolve matters, Ive seen evidence to show that wasnt  the case,  and that 
she did use the account successfully. Only the attempted payment in question  was blocked - 
not the account itself. So I dont agree that Miss C was left in hardship without access to her 
funds, and use of her account. 
So for the poor customer service Miss C experienced after the block  was placed, in 
particular for failing to call her back when  promised, I think it was fair for MSFS to pay her 
£75 compensation.  But I think that sum was enough, and I wont  be asking for it to be 
increased. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing news for Miss C. I can see she feels  strongly about 
what happened, and that she was given the run-around by MSFS when she said she tried to 
contact it repeatedly to have the block lifted.  It was no doubt infuriating at the time. But, for 
the reasons Ive given, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask MSFS to do anything else. 
And my role is to reach a decision  thats fair to both parties  using all of the evidence  
available to me.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1752430