K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the compensation offered by Flairford Securities Ltd (Flairford) after 
things went wrong when they dealt with her payment protection  insurance (PPI) claims.
background
Miss G instructed Flairford in November 2018 to pursue PPI claims. Miss G signed a 
contract with Flairford agreeing to their fee of 20% plus VAT in the event of successful  claim.  
Miss G sent a copy of her passport to Flairford as requested by Lender N. This was received 
by Flairford on 2 January  2019. Lender N wrote to Miss G on 21 January saying that her 
claim had been  successful, and shed receive  £3,072.18. Flairford were also sent a copy of 
this letter.  On 24 January  additional ID was requested by Flairford even though it was 
already on file. 
 
On 28 January Miss G paid £300 as a deposit towards a family holiday. Miss G then found 
out from Lender N that shed only be getting half of the compensation amount  referred  to in 
their letter. Miss G complained to Flairford on 8 February about the information shed been 
given about the compensation shed receive.  
Flairford initially offered to reduce their invoice by 50% to reflect the reduced  compensation 
being paid to Miss G. On 5 April in their final response, Flairford agreed to waive  their 
success fee of £419.15  in full to try and resolve Miss Gs complaint. 
Miss G remained unhappy with the response from Flairford, and referred her complaint to 
this service for investigation.  The investigator  found  that Flairford  shouldve told Miss G that 
as the account  with Lender N was a joint account,  shed only receive half of the 
compensation amount referred to in the offer letter of 21 January. The investigator said the 
offer to waive the success fee was fair, and didnt recommend anymore compensation. 
Miss G disagreed with the findings. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved, its been passed 
to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Miss G initially  complained about Flairfords  overall  handling of her claims. I 
think the response provided  by Flairford in relation to the claims other than Lender N is fair. It 
doesnt look like these  claims have  progressed further than Flairford asking the lender to 
confirm if PPI was taken out. So I havent  commented anymore on Flairfords  handling  of 
these claims.
Miss Gs complaint largely  relates  to the work done by Flairford  on her claim concerning 
Lender N. Its not disputed that Flairford made errors  on this case. These errors include 
asking Miss G to provide  ID when this was already held on file by them, and not clearly  
explaining the amount of compensation Miss G would be paid directly. The dispute between  
Miss G and Flairford now relates  to the award of compensation that should be paid by 
Flairford in recognition  of what went wrong.  
Ref: DRN15376652I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Miss G. Having reviewed the case,  I 
agree with the investigators findings,  and I wont be recommending further compensation for 
this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss G but I 
hope my findings  go some way in explaining why Ive reached  this decision.   
I agree  that Flairford  shouldve told Miss G at the start of their process, and at least  at the 
time of sending their invoice, of the risk that as the account was a joint account,  Miss G may 
only receive 50% of the payment. Theres no dispute that Flairford made an error in failing to 
do this.
Miss G says the compensation amount should reflect the full trouble and upset shes  
experienced by having  to pay for her holiday and expenses in full, despite only receiving half 
of the offer amount she thought she was getting. I can appreciate this has been a really 
upsetting time for Miss G. But I dont  think it would be fair for Flairford  to pay the additional 
costs incurred by Miss G. The reason for this is because it was Miss Gs decision to continue 
with her holiday after being told of the reduced  compensation shed get. We wouldnt 
normally expect a customer  to spend money  that hasnt been  paid into their account. 
Flairford made an error, and I think its fair that they pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  But I think any compensation amount should be in reflection of the trouble and 
upset experienced  because  of what went wrong,  and the impact on Miss G. I dont  think  this 
reasonably includes  compensation  for the opportunities  Miss G was hoping for. 
In reaching this view,  Ive taken into account  that the complaint is not about the amount paid 
by Lender N, as this is correct. The complaint  is about the lack of information given to Miss 
G by Flairford about what Miss G would  receive. Flairford have agreed to waive  their invoice  
of £419.15 in recognition  of what went wrong. I think this amount is broadly in line with the 
compensation wed recommend for the trouble and upset caused  to Miss G because of 
Flairfords errors on the claim. This amount reflects  the trouble caused in having  to send ID 
when Flairford already  had it on file, and also the upset and shock  caused because Flairford  
failed to correctly  explain the compensation that Miss G would be getting.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because the offer Flairford Securities Ltd 
has made to Miss G is fair and reasonable. I leave it to Miss G to decide whether to accept  
this offer by the date specified below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.  
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1537665