K820x#14complaint
Mr B doesnt  think its fair for National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to use his payment  
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr B complained to NatWest in 2018 that he had been mis-sold PPI.
NatWest upheld Mr Bs complaint about PPI he was sold with two loans. NatWest  wrote two 
letters to Mr B offering  him compensation. 
Mr B accepted NatWests  offer. 
However, Mr B had previously been  in a protected  trust deed. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his creditors,  which  is 
administered by a trustee. 
NatWest used the compensation totalling £275.25 to reduce outstanding  monies  totalling  
£7,077.48 that it says Mr B still owed and hadnt fully repaid  - despite  being discharged from 
his protected trust deed. 
Mr B, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation brought  his complaint to our service.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld so the 
complaint was passed to me.
In October  2019 I issued  my provisional  findings  on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I thought  it 
was fair for NatWest to use Mr Bs PPI compensation to reduce  monies  owed and left unpaid  
when his trust deed came to an end.
NatWest has confirmed  that its received my provisional decision. It says it has nothing to 
add.
Mr B has not responded to my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor NatWest  have replied with any new evidence  or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
October 2019.
Ref: DRN15630412my final decision
I think its fair for National  Westminster Bank Plc to use Mr Bs PPI compensation to reduce 
the monies owed  and left unpaid when Mr Bs trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN15630413copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B doesnt  think its fair for National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) to use his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr B complained to NatWest in 2018 that he had been mis-sold PPI.
NatWest upheld Mr Bs complaint about PPI he was sold with two loans. NatWest wrote two letters to 
Mr B offering  him compensation. 
Mr B accepted NatWests offer.  
However, Mr B had previously been in a protected trust deed.  
A protected trust deed  is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called  sequestration in Scotland).  It is 
a legally  binding  agreement between  a consumer  and his creditors, which  is administered by a 
trustee. 
NatWest used the compensation totalling £275.25 to reduce outstanding monies  totalling  £7,077.48 
that it says Mr B still owed and hadnt fully repaid - despite being  discharged  from his protected trust 
deed. 
Mr B, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation brought  his complaint to our service.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B says that he was discharged from his protected trust deed which  Mr B says should have  ended 
any recovery  action in the future because he feels his debt no longer exists.    So Mr B says the 
compensation should be paid directly to him. 
NatWest say it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mr B hasnt fully repaid.
Ref: DRN15630414Is it fair for NatWest to use the PPI commission compensation to reduce  an outstanding amount owed 
 despite Mr B being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been some court  cases about  to who PPI compensation should  be paid when  a consumer 
has been discharged from a protected trust deed. 
In July 2018,  the Supreme  Court issued a judgment looking at what  should  happen  to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed  completed.  The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018]  UKSC  54.
In that case,  the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustee  for the 
benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
There is another case that is also relevant; this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  
SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly, the court said the business  couldnt  use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were  discharged  when the trust deed came to an end. However, this has been 
appealed by the business   so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have  taken into account,  the relevant law. But I must apply  an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for NatWest to use the compensation to reduce the monies Mr B 
borrowed and didnt fully repay.
When Mr B was discharged from the protected trust deed NatWest says the outstanding  amount Mr B 
owed was £7,077.48. While Mr B was discharged from his protected trust deed, this was still an 
outstanding amount that Mr B wont now ever have to repay. NatWest arent  seeking  to recover that 
amount  it is simply reducing the amount owed.
So the fact that Mr B entered into a protected trust deed and was discharged from his debt when his 
trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think  it would be unfair to tell NatWest to pay back the PPI compensation to Mr B,          when Mr B 
doesnt now have to pay back the thousands of pounds he borrowed. 
So it follows that I think its fair for NatWest to use the PPI compensation  to reduce  the outstanding  
amount that Mr B wont ever have to repay.
my provisional  decision
I think  its fair for National  Westminster Bank Plc to use Mr Bs PPI compensation  to reduce the 
monies owed and left unpaid when Mr Bs trust deed came to an end.
I invite both parties to respond by the deadline set out at the start of this provisional decision.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1563041