K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (then  trading as EGG) mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. The complaint 
was then passed to me to decide.  
In March 2019, I sent my provisional decision to both Mr C and Barclays.  Ive attached my 
provisional decision here for ease of reference.  And in it I said I was intending  to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint  in summary  I said that because: 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mr C, but it had to give him enough 
information so that he could decide for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs;
Mr C had a health condition which wouldve been excluded  under the policy  as a 
pre-existing condition;
Having considered what Barclays sent me about  the online  sales process Mr C 
wouldve gone through, I didnt  think it had sufficiently highlighted the significant 
limitations with respect to pre-existing medical conditions;
And had Mr C been given better information  about this, he probably  wouldve thought  
the most  likely reason  for him being unable  to work wouldve been because of his 
condition 
So if Mr C had been made aware  the policy wouldnt cover him for time off work 
caused by his pre-existing medical condition,  I dont think  hed have bought the 
policy.
Barclays disagreed  with my provisional  decision  in doing  so it has said: 
Mr C took out his credit card and PPI online.  The PPI wasnt  recommended to him, 
and so it was up to him to decide  if the policy was right for him;
The application process Mr C wouldve gone through  meant he was provided with 
information about the policy exclusions which included information about any existing 
medical conditions;
Mr C wouldve ticked a box online when making  his application that says I 
understand that by clicking on this box I confirm that I have read and agree to the 
terms of the repayment protection  policy
Mr C was presented with information that was clear, fair and not misleading  during 
this process  including about any exclusion; 
Mr Cs said his condition has led to him taking off a week  or so from work previously 
and that hes generally able to manage it with his prescribed medication;
As Mr C could  only make a claim on the policy for time-off work for an illness if it was 
for 30 continuous days or more. And given how long hed already  had the condition  
and as he was able to manage  it well, Barclays says the condition  would  have been  
unlikely to have  caused him to take extended  periods of time off work  of 30 days  or 
more.
I will now decide this complaint. 
Ref: DRN10702272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Cs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint   Ill explain why. 
Im still satisfied Mr Cs PPI was sold him online when taking out the card. Im also satisfied 
Mr C most likely followed the process  Barclays says he did. 
I havent seen  anything that suggests  Barclays recommended PPI to Mr C. But as I said 
previously Barclays had to give Mr C enough  information about the PPI so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs.  And that information had to be clear, fair 
and not misleading.  
Ive carefully considered  what Barclays have said about its online process, the information 
that wouldve  been presented to Mr C and that he wouldve had to tick a box to say he has 
read the policy terms and conditions.  But nothing  Barclays  has said in response to my 
provisional decision makes me think differently about this. To that end, Ill repeat what  I said 
here: 
As Ive said,  Barclays has given me a screenshot of what it says Mr C wouldve seen when
completing his application  online.  And having  carefully considered this evidence  I am not
satisfied that the significant limitations  with respect  to pre-existing medical conditions were
sufficiently highlighted  such  that it drew them to the attention of Mr C.
In saying this Ive considered that on the screenshot Barclays say the full terms and
conditions would be shown on the screen  and direct me to the wording of the policy to see
what was written. But given the amount of information this would have  contained, I dont
think the information about pre-existing medical  conditions was made sufficiently prominent
or clear  given how important a term it is.
While I note that Mr C wouldve had to tick a box to say hed read the terms and
conditions I am not persuaded  that the presentation of the policys  restrictions  was
adequate. As Mr C was on the website hoping to secure a credit  card,  rather than buy
insurance, I consider  that Barclays should have  provided information about the restrictions
and limitations of the policy  in a clear way which allowed Mr C to make  an informed decision
about buying the insurance. I do not consider  that it did so.
So this means  Im persuaded Barclays didnt give Mr C enough information so that he could 
decide for himself  whether it was a good fit for him. It follows  then that I need  to ask myself 
that had Mr C been given clearer information, whether he wouldve taken out the PPI. 
I still think Mr Cs medical  condition  is one that wouldve been excluded  under the policys 
terms and conditions should he have needed to make a claim because of it.  Neither  party 
has said anything about this in response  to my provisional decision to make  me think any 
differently. 
Barclays argue that given  what  Mr C has told us about how he manged his condition and 
because he only took a week or so off work because  of it, he wouldve  thought the PPI was 
still right for him. To my mind thats because  he would  never  have thought, given what  had 
Ref: DRN10702273gone before, that he would be off work for 30 days or more because  of his condition.  After all 
that is when the policy  would begin to pay out in the event of a successful sickness claim.
I can see why Barclays say this, and to my mind it is a strong argument in the context of the 
individual facts  of this case.  But I think this is a more finely balanced matter than might meet 
the eye. I say that because the policy says The Insurer will not pay benefits if. The 
Disability results, directly or indirectly,  froma  Pre-existing Condition.
This wording would mean that if Mr C needed to make a claim under the policy,  the reason 
for any sickness couldnt be related to his pre-existing medical condition. And given the very 
nature of Mr Cs condition, I think its likely Mr C wouldve decided not to take out the PPI. 
I say that because hes already told us it affected other conditions he had suffered from. And 
without explicitly setting  out what this condition is, it could quite feasibly be indirectly  linked 
to several other illnesses  that may materialise over time. I also think its likely that these 
could have rendered  Mr C unable  to work  for more than 30 days;  even if that hadnt 
happened before.  
In reaching my decision Ive had to weigh up what I think Mr Cs decision would most likely 
have been  given what we do know about  his condition  had Barclays  given him enough 
information about the significant term related to pre-existing medical conditions. 
So I think Mr C has lost out because  of what Barclayss did wrong  and it needs to put things  
right.
putting things right
Barclays has told us this account was closed and subsequently sold to a third party.
Barclays should put Mr C in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr C wouldve owed  when his credit card account  
was sold if the policy  hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when the 
account was sold and what he wouldve owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Barclays should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr C wouldve
owed when his account was sold, from when  it was sold until he gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when Barclays works out what Mr C wouldve owed each month  without PPI  Mr 
C paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Barclays should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mr C wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN10702274D.Barclays should tell Mr C what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If Barclays has already repaid Mr C any commission redress that relates to this PPI sale that
sum can be deducted from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN10702275provisional decision
complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (then trading as EGG) mis-sold him a payment  protection
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
background
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Cs case.
Im intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr C has said the PPI was sold to him over the phone. Barclays have given me information
from its internal  systems that show it was sold online. Based on what Ive seen,  I think its
most likely the PPI was sold online when Mr C took out his credit card.
Barclays has sent us a screenshot  of the information it says Mr C would have seen when he
bought the policy. I havent seen anything to suggest that this screenshot  isnt accurate. So
Im satisfied the information provided  to me is the same  as would  have been available to
Mr C at the point of the sale.
Barclays didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr C, but it had to give him enough  information  about
the PPI so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That
information had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr C has said that he had a medical condition since  a very young age. And it caused him to
have periods whereby  his health was adversely affected by it. He adds that as a result its
meant hes had to take time off work, and its been serious enough that hes had to make hospital  
visits. Mr C also say that if he had other illnesses, such as coughs and colds, then
this wouldve made his condition substantively more difficult. And that this too has led to
periods of work absence.
The policy Barclays has given me excludes a pre-existing condition.  And having read the
definition of it, Im satisfied that its most likely this wouldve meant Mr C would  not have been
able to claim  for anytime off work  for his particular  condition.
As Ive said,  Barclays has given me a screenshot of what it says Mr C wouldve seen when
completing his application  online. And having carefully considered this evidence  I am not
satisfied that the significant  limitations with respect to pre-existing medical  conditions were
sufficiently highlighted  such that it drew them to the attention of Mr C.
In saying  this Ive considered that on the screenshot Barclays say the full terms and
conditions would be shown on the screen and direct me to the wording of the policy to see
what was written. But given the amount of information this would have contained, I dont
think the information  about pre-existing medical  conditions was made sufficiently prominent
or clear  given how important a term it is.
Ref: DRN10702276While I note that Mr C wouldve had to tick a box to say hed read the terms and
conditions I am not persuaded that the presentation of the policys restrictions was
adequate. As Mr C was on the website hoping to secure a credit card, rather  than buy
insurance, I consider  that Barclays should have provided  information about the restrictions
and limitations  of the policy  in a clear way which allowed Mr C to make an informed  decision
about buying the insurance. I do not consider  that it did so.
I think  Mr C wouldve probably considered the most likely reason for him being  unable to
work was his condition. So if hed been  made aware  the policy wouldnt cover him for time
off work  caused by it I dont think hed have bought the policy.
Mr C has lost out because of Barclayss  did wrong  and it needs to put things right.
putting things  right
Barclays has told us this account was closed  and subsequently  sold to a third party.
Barclays should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.Barclays should find out how much  Mr C wouldve owed when  his credit card account
was sold if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those  charges.
Barclays should then refund  the difference between what Mr C owed when the account was 
sold and what he wouldve  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C wouldve owed 
when his account was sold, from when  it was sold until he gets the refund. The
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when Barclays works out what Mr C wouldve owed each month without PPI  Mr C paid 
more than enough  to clear his balance,  Barclays  should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C wouldve  owed 
Barclays something on his credit  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
If Barclays has already repaid Mr C any commission redress that relates  to this PPI sale that
sum can be deducted from the redress shown  above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN1070227