K822xcomplaint and background 
Mr M says Clydesdale Bank Plc led him to believe a payment into his account had cleared 
so he released an item he was selling. The payment was later recalled from his account. So 
he wants the bank  to make good  the £9,500 loss he says he suffered, and to pay £100 
compensation for the inconvenience this has caused  him. 
Our investigator said, in summary, she thought Mr M has been given enough information  on 
the call to make him aware the payment  wasnt showing as cleared funds. She said the bank 
couldnt explain why it initially suggested the refund  would be made. So, overall, whilst she 
found that the bank wasnt responsible  for Mr Ms loss, she said it should have provided 
better service. She concluded Clydesdale should pay Mr M £150 to compensate  him for the 
trouble and upset  its poor service had caused.
The bank accepted this and agreed  to make  the payment. But Mr M rejected the 
investigators findings. He said the bank is the expert  so it should have given clearer and 
more specific information regarding the cheque  payment. He referenced  two other decisions 
he feels are relevant to his case. And he asked for an ombudsmans  review.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint in part. I asked  Mr M and Clydesdale to let me have any 
more information  by 19 December 2019  before  I made  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale responded to my provisional decision agreeing  to settle the complaint as Id set 
out. 
Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision, saying he wasnt happy with the proposed 
resolution. Whilst he provided no new evidence, he raised a number of points and I have 
considered them all carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal  dispute  resolution 
service, I will comment briefly here on the aspects I consider relevant to the outcome. 
Mr M said the provisional decision indicated he would be happy  to accept an equal  split but 
this is not the case. However,  on his phone call with the investigator on 21 September 2019 
it seems he was considering joint responsibility  (albeit as his worst case  scenario), but 
making the point  that it would be unfair if they bank was absolved  of any responsibility.
Mr M says its unfair to say he should have taken more precautions, but he already accepted 
this in his call to the bank  on 22 August 2018  when he commented that he was at fault for 
releasing the item. He argues that the information  on the call was either incorrect or 
misleading. But this is in line with my provisional  finding where  I concluded that the bank 
hadnt given Mr M complete and clear information. So I remain  of that view that both parties 
must take some responsibility.
 
Mr M asks for another investigation into why the original decision to refund him was 
changed. As he knows, we have  already  asked  this question of the bank, and it couldnt 
provide any further  detail.  I would add that my interpretation of those calls is more that the 
Ref: DRN16605962adviser initially over-promised,  rather than the bank had reached a decision and then 
changed its mind. And whilst I agree this is not acceptable, my proposed  outcome 
considered this service  failure. I can find no grounds to believe that instructing the bank to 
investigate this further would yield any information  that would change  the outcome of this 
complaint.
Mr M also asked  why a fraud  case wasnt opened, but as Clydesdale indicated in its letter to 
Mr M when  it returned the cheque  he needed to take up the matter  with the drawer. It would 
be the drawers bank  that would need  to investigate the fraud. I understand he also reported 
the incident to the police. 
Mr M then put forward a final offer saying he would be happy to settle at £8,806  (the original 
cost of the item). Whilst I understand Mr M will be frustrated and disappointed, for the 
reasons set out above, I have found  no grounds  to change the outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision, particularly where the evidence on both sides  is not as complete as 
might otherwise be the case. It may be that Mr M wants  to take things further  through other 
routes. But my decision will bring  to an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute  with 
Clydesdale informally, can do for Mr M.
putting things right
Clydesdale Bank  Plc must credit Mr Ms account  with a total payment of £4,750 in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part and Clydesdale Bank Plc must compensate 
Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16605963copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M says Clydesdale Bank Plc led him to believe  a payment into his account had cleared so he 
released an item he was selling. The payment  was later recalled from his account. So he wants  the 
bank to make good the £9,500 loss he says he suffered, and to pay £100 compensation  for the 
inconvenience this has caused him. 
background
Mr M was selling an item through an online boot sale app. Once he saw online that the payment had 
reached his account, he called the bank to check that it couldnt  be recalled. Following  that 
conversation he gave  the item to the buyer, understanding the money to have cleared. Five days  later 
he was notified by text that the cheque  had been returned  unpaid and the payment was debited from 
his account.  
Whilst accepting hes been the victim of a scam, Mr M says it was the banks failure to provide  the 
right information that led him to release the goods,  so it should make good his loss. He adds  he was 
also told initially by Clydesdale that the money would be returned to his account, but it later said there  
would be no refund.  
The bank disagreed  that it was liable  for the loss Mr M has suffered. It said whilst its adviser could 
have been clearer, he said the funds were not immediately available and that Mr M should check his 
account in a few days.
Our investigator said, in summary,  he thought Mr M has been given  enough information on the call to 
make him aware the payment wasnt showing as cleared funds. He said the bank couldnt explain why 
it initially  suggested the refund would  be made. So, overall, whilst he found  that the bank wasnt 
responsible for Mr Ms loss, he said it should  have  provided  better  service. He concluded Clydesdale 
should pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset its poor service had caused.
The bank accepted this and agreed  to make the payment.  But Mr M rejected the investigators 
findings. He said the bank is the expert so it should have given clearer and more specific information  
regarding the cheque payment. He referenced two other decisions he feels are relevant to his case. 
And he asked  for an ombudsmans review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I note Mr M highlighted  two other final decisions he feels are relevant  
to his case, but we consider  each  case on its individual merits so I wont be commenting on them.
Im currently  planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
Ive listened carefully to the relevant calls.  Having done so, I think  both sides have to accept some 
responsibility for what has happened. In the call on 17 August 2018 Mr M didnt  respond to all the 
banks questions. It asked if it was a cheque that had been paid in, but 
Mr M gave no response  to that query.  But equally the bank didnt give Mr M clear  and complete 
information, as Id expect it to, allowing him to make a properly informed decision. Whilst  the adviser 
referenced the sixth day he didnt do so in the necessary  context given the purpose of Mr Ms call was 
very clear. At the start of the call Mr M asked so that cant be recalled  in anyway?. That was a very 
clear and direct question Mr M asked the bank. And by the end of the call I think the bank had failed 
to answer that question.  
Ref: DRN16605964Mr M accepts,  in his call to the bank on 22 August 2018, that hes at fault for releasing the item.  But 
equally he thinks the bank  must  take some responsibility, as he did so based on the incomplete 
information it gave. And I agree.
However, I dont think its fair to make the bank pay Mr M all of the money  hes lost. After  all, he 
admits he could have taken more precautions.  Deciding where the responsibility should  lie is very 
difficult in such circumstances. Here, I think  an equal split is fair, with each side being  responsible for 
£4,750 of the loss. I anticipate that neither  side may be entirely happy with this outcome. But thats 
the nature of cases where both sides  have  some  responsibility for whats happened.  Ive seen that Mr 
M has indicated this is something hed be happy to consider as an acceptable resolution to this 
dispute.
putting things  right
Clydesdale Bank Plc will have to credit  Mr Ms account with a total payment of £4,750 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I am currently planning  to uphold this complaint in part and will direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay 
£4,750 to Mr M.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1660596