K820x#14complaint
Mr S makes  a number of complaints about Vanquis  Bank Limited following unauthorised 
credit card transactions.
background
Mr S says there were  a number of unauthorised credit card transactions  on his credit card 
statement which meant he was being  asked to pay a higher minimum repayment amount. 
He says he spoke  to Vanquis  about this in June 2018 but it was more concerned about the 
payment and not in cancelling his card and protecting his personal data. Mr S says he made  
the required monthly payment but Vanquis  then charged him late payment fees and reported 
that to the Credit Reference Agencies  (CRAs). He would like Vanquis to rethink its approach 
about data breaches  and accept his payment was in time.
Vanquis accepts Mr Ss monthly  repayment increased by about  £16 as a result  of the 
disputed transactions  but Mr S ought  to have repaid his usual repayment  of £90. It has 
issued a number  of responses to Mr Ss complaints but in summary accepts it should have 
done more when Mr S told it about the transactions. Vanquis has paid £25 compensation for 
this and offered  a further £25 and apologised.  It says Mr S made  his June  2018  payment late 
and that is why it charged a late payment fee but its refunded  three late payment  fees.  
Vanquis says its correctly reported the position to the CRAs.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and two investigators have issued views. I will only 
summarise the second view. The investigator  thought Vanquis ought  to have acted earlier  
when Mr S told it about the disputed transactions but thought  it had paid and offered a fair 
and reasonable amount of £50 compensation in addition to its apology.  The investigator  
didnt think that meant  Vanquis had mishandled Mr Ss personal  data and thought Mr S had 
made his payment for his May 2018 statement after the correct  date. So Vanquis  hadnt 
made a mistake by charging a late payment fee.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says there  was a serious General Data  Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) breach and Vanquis is wrong  to say he didnt make the payment in time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the second investigator  reached  and for the same  reasons.
I can see that Mr S says he had similar  problems with his bank at the same time as the 
disputed transactions  appeared on his Vanquis credit card bill. I dont think that means that 
Vanquis was responsible  for what took place or that its possible  to conclude that Vanquis 
has mishandled  Mr Ss personal data. But I accept that Vanquis ought  to have acted quicker 
than it did and I can see that it accepts that and has paid and offered what I think  is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation. I dont  think Mr S suffered  any financial loss as a 
result of that short delay  before his account  card was cancelled.
I appreciate that Mr S says he then made a payment on time and shouldnt have been 
charged a late payment  fee. But I have looked  at Mr Ss account details and statements and 
Im satisfied that his May 2018  statement  required a payment by 18 June 2018. But that the 
payment was made after that date. Im satisfied that in line with the account terms and 
conditions which I think Mr S would have agreed  to when  the account  was opened that 
Ref: DRN13137242Vanquis was entitled to charge a late payment  fee. So I dont  think  Vanquis made a mistake  
or acted  unfairly  by doing so and by reporting  that information in line with its duties  to the 
CRAs.
I also appreciate that Mr S says his minimum payment  had increased  as a result  of the 
disputed transactions  and that was unfair. But I think in line with the account terms and 
conditions Mr S was obliged to continue making  monthly repayments even if there was a 
dispute. And I would  have  expected  him in those circumstances to have made a payment in 
line with what he thought he owed and within the required period that was on his account  
statement. 
I can see that Vanquis fairly refunded  a number of late payment fees in any event.  And as I 
think it has a duty to accurately report the account position to the CRAs I cant fairly order it 
to remove that information.
Overall Im satisfied Vanquis  has dealt  fairly  with this complaint and I will leave it to Mr S to 
decide if he wishes to accept its offer of further compensation. Im also satisfied this brings  
an end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally  can do to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Vanquis  Bank  
Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer of further compensation. Mr Ss acceptance of 
that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1313724