K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of company M, about misleading information given by Lloyds Bank  
plc (Lloyds), namely that:
i. Lloyds said the name on a business account  could be transferred into that of 
M;
ii. Lending from another business  could be transferred to M.
background
Mr B, acting on behalf of M, wanted to change the name on a business account  to M and 
wanted a debt from another company to be transferred to M. Mr B says he was told by 
Lloyds that this would be possible.  Mr B believed that Lloyds had begun  to arrange a new 
loan application  for M.
When the relationship  manager with whom Mr B had been speaking changed roles, M was 
advised that a new account would need  to be opened, as M was a new company and a 
separate legal  entity. Further, it would not be possible to transfer a loan from one company 
to another.  Any new lending  would  require a fresh application from M. Lloyds accept  it is 
possible that the loan application was overlooked and theyve offered £500 to compensate  
for any inconvenience caused.  They say it is open  to M to apply for a loan or overdraft. Mr B 
says that M has incurred  losses as a result of the misleading information  given.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Lloyds had done nothing  wrong  in 
saying that M needed to set up a new account.  This was more  than amendment  to a name  
on an account, as M was a separate legal entity  and the other business was later dissolved. 
Likewise M could not simply  take over the loan from another business,  Lloyds did nothing  
wrong in advising  that new lending would  need to be taken. But our investigator agreed that 
the notes from the time showed Mr B, on behalf  of M, believed that an application was being  
progressed. She took into account  Lloyds concession that this might have been  overlooked  
and agreed that their offer of £500  for inconvenience was fair and reasonable. 
Mr B does not agree with the view, he maintains that Lloyds should have paperwork to 
support what he was told at the time.  He also says M has had to cover payments from the 
other business, so the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
The businesses referred to by Mr B are separate legal entities. Mr B has also raised  
concerns about  his personal liability for a guarantee, our investigator  has explained why this 
isnt something we can consider. This complaint has been  brought  by M so my decision is 
specific to the complaint  brought by M and I will not be considering the guarantee further  
within this decision or any personal losses suffered by Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B refers  to discussions with an employee  from Lloyds,  unfortunately no records  or notes 
from any meetings have been  provided. As I dont have a record as to what was said at the 
time, Ive considered  this matter carefully  and made my decision based upon  the balance  of 
probabilities. 
Ref: DRN18670452Ive seen from later contact notes that Mr B, acting  on behalf  of M, wanted to change  the 
name on a business  account to M and move a loan from one business to M. Lloyds accept 
there was some miscommunication  around this. It seems  likely that a loan application  was 
overlooked.
I can see that this led to genuine confusion, however,  I cant  say that Lloyds did anything  
wrong in setting up a new account for M and explaining that new lending would need to be 
applied for. Thats because M is a different  legal  entity to the other  company and its financial 
stability would have  to be considered in its own right. Ive seen  that there was a period of 
overlap between the two companies operating and Im satisfied that Mr B wouldve been 
aware of this.
Lloyds accept that this matter could have been  handled better. Theyve offered M £500 in 
compensation. As M isnt an individual, were  not able to compensate  for any emotional 
distress so this amount  is to compensate the business for inconvenience.  Taking  everything  
into account, I consider  that is a fair and reasonable offer, so I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more. Its now a matter for M to decide  whether or not to accept the offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 20 September 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1867045