K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited, trading  as Northridge Finance  (Northridge), has not been of satisfactory  quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2020. I explained why I was planning  to uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr F took receipt  of a used car in May 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Northridge. At the point of supply the car had already completed about 
23,000 miles and was about two years old.
On the day he took receipt of the car Mr F took it back  to the dealership  as the instrument 
panel had gone blank.  He says they advised him to take it to a main dealership but efforts  to 
repair the fault in May,  July, September and November 2018 all failed.  Mr F therefore 
contacted Northridge  and asked them to allow him to reject  the car.
Northridge refused  as they said hed had the vehicle  for more  than six months  and hed been 
able to travel  over 7,000 miles in it. They thought the issue with the instrument panel did not 
affect his ability to drive  the car and they explained  that Mr F should have returned the car to 
them rather  than contact  the main dealer himself.
So Mr F referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided his opinion.  He 
thought there was evidence that the car was faulty when supplied and as it hadnt  been 
possible to repair the car he thought Northridge should allow Mr F to reject it. He didnt think  
it would  have mattered  if Mr F had referred  the matter to Northridge from the outset as he 
noted the main  manufacturing dealership had failed to rectify the fault  he didnt think  the 
situation would have been likely to be any different. He thought it didnt matter if the fault 
affected the roadworthiness of the car. The point was that there  was a fault and the fault 
hadnt been repaired.
So he suggested Northridge should take the car back and refund Mr Fs deposit and he also 
thought they should  refund  70% of the payments Mr F had made to them because he hadnt  
had fair use of the car. He said Northridge should add 8% simple  interest  to all refunds made 
from September 2018 onwards.
Northridge suggested an alternative settlement which Mr F rejected. They  provided no 
further comments so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view but I dont  currently agree with the way in which  hes 
suggested things  should be put right. Please  let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN18480172Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr F. The car here 
was around two years old and had completed about 23,000 miles so I would not think  a 
reasonable person would expect much  wear and tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Northridge to put this right. 
The relevant  legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply. It says:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Mr F says he reported the fault to the dealership  on the day it was supplied to him. I 
understand that Northridge dispute this. They question why, if that was the case,  he didnt 
report it to the main dealership until July 2018.  ve thought about that but regardless of 
whether the screen was faulty  on the day the car was received, its not disputed it was faulty 
a couple of months later, in July. As thats within six months the relevant legislation would 
still ask us to assume the fault was there  from the outset.
I think its understandable that Mr F would have wanted to return  his car the main dealership 
as he had a warranty  that allowed work to be carried out there.  I also think it is likely  the 
main dealer  would have  been better equipped  to handle problems with a car in which they 
were specialists. So I dont agree with Northridges suggestion the car should have been 
referred to them   I dont  think  it would have  been  likely to have changed the outcome.
The main  dealership have attempted several  repairs. The relevant legislation says that the 
business is allowed  one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at the point of supply. I 
think its clear  that opportunity has failed. In those circumstances it would now be fair to 
allow Mr F to reject  the car and to terminate  the finance arrangement  he has with them.  
Northridge say that the instrument panel hasnt affected the roadworthiness of the car. But I 
think the instrument  panel isnt a trivial component. Its a significant component that provides 
important information  to the driver.  I dont think a reasonable  person would think a car of this 
age, mileage and specification was of an acceptable standard if its instrument  panel  wasnt  
functioning. So I think the fault does  make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
putting things  right
The investigator suggested that Northridge should  refund 70% of the payments  Mr F has 
made towards his agreement as he said Mr F hadnt  had full use of the car. Mr F has been  
able to drive the car and has covered, pro rata, more than his contractual  mileage. Whilst I 
Ref: DRN18480173think his enjoyment of the car would have  been  impacted by the fault,  he has been  able to 
drive the vehicle and I think  the benefits  of driving  the car more  than outweigh the frustration 
of the failed instrument panel. So I dont currently agree with the investigators  suggestion  
that 70% of payments  should be refunded. I think 30% is more  reasonable. 
I would agree with the investigator  that Mr Fs deposit should be returned to him. The 
business should add 8% simple interest to the payment to compensate Mr F as he has been 
deprived of that deposit whilst financing an unsatisfactory vehicle.
Its clear that Mr F has been  inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to return his car on 
several occasions and I think  this complaint  could  have  been resolved earlier. The 
investigator didnt  suggest  any compensation was provided but, in the circumstances, I think  
Northridge should compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced. I 
think £200 would be reasonable.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell N.I.I.B.  Group Limited  to:
terminate the finance  agreement at no further cost to Mr F;
collect the car at no cost to Mr F;
refund  30% of all finance instalments to compensate Mr F for the lack of use hes 
experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
return Mr Fs deposit and add 8% simple  interest  per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr F £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Mr F thought I should ask Northridge  to refund more of the finance instalments and he also 
thought the award for distress and inconvenience should be higher.
Northridge didnt provide any further  information  to dispute my findings as they explained the 
pandemic was preventing  them from contacting the dealership. They  asked for our 
forbearance about any redress and explained that as the dealerships  werent open and 
neither were  the auction houses,  it would currently be impossible  for them  to take the car 
back or sell it. They  also explained  that as they were based in Ireland they had no ability  to 
store or uplift the vehicle during the current lockdown.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs arguments  that theres a reason to increase the refund of 
finance instalments  I was proposing. I understand he suggested an alternative approach 
based on pence per mile but Im not persuaded there was anything wrong with my 
provisional decision. I thought the benefits of driving the car more  than outweighed  the 
frustration of the failed instrument  panel. So I thought the refund should be quite a bit less 
than half of the payments made  under the agreement and I still think 30% was about right.
Similarly, Im not persuaded that theres a reason to change the compensation Ive 
suggested. I took all of the issues  into account when suggesting Northridge should pay £200 
and I dont think Ive been provided with any new evidence.
Ref: DRN18480174I can understand Northridges problems with carrying out any redress  Im ordering and Ive 
read Mr Fs helpful comments about that. 
It seems  that car auctions are now in operation  in the UK although  some  research suggests 
they are only selling on line. As the lock down  has now eased it also looks like dealerships 
may well open again  as soon as 1 June 2020. So I would hope  that Northridge  are now able 
to carry out the redress Ive suggested  in full. 
But in case thats  not possible, Ive modified the redress to explain that I would expect 
Northridge to collect the car as soon as it is possible to do so. But I dont think  theres 
reason to amend any of the other  actions  Im asking them to complete and Ive not seen a 
reason to change  my provisional decision on this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell N.I.I.B.  Group Limited  to:
terminate the finance  agreement at no further cost to Mr F;
collect the car at no cost to Mr F as soon  as it is possible to do so;
refund  30% of all finance instalments to compensate Mr F for the lack of use hes 
experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
return Mr Fs deposit and add 8% simple  interest  per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr F £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 Junel  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1848017