K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a car 
loan in 2008. The car was bought  through  a dealership but a company called Itc Compliance 
Limited (Itc) is responsible for this sale.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in June 2019,  setting  out why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.   And  I asked  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I therefore dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont  require Itc Compliance Limited  to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10490562copy  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr W complained he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy with a car loan in 
2008. The car was bought through  a dealership  but a company called Itc Compliance Limited is 
responsible for this sale. 
So Ill refer mainly to Itc throughout  this decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators  looked  into this complaint  a while ago and said it ought to be upheld.  They  
thought there  wasnt enough evidence to show Mr W had been  told about all the costs.
Im sorry that after this point theres been a bit of delay  which both parties  will have no doubt found 
frustrating. Some of the delay has been due to the company representing Mr W no longer  being 
authorised as a claims management  company.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im not intending to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I recognise  this will 
disappointing for him.
There are two main issues  I need  to consider in thinking about  this complaint. The first is the actual 
reason Mr W gave as to why he thought the policy was mis-sold. The second is about what  our 
adjudicator said about the full cost disclosure of the PPI to Mr W.
the complaint point made by Mr W
Mr Ws complaint  was that he was self-employed  and that the PPI policy  he was sold wouldnt have 
covered him in these circumstances. We do sometimes see situations where self-employed people 
can have difficulties in ever making  a successful claim, particularly for unemployment.  But although  
there were certain conditions on Mr Ws policy, such as having to wait for a while to qualify for making 
a claim,  I dont think Mr Ws work, on its own,  would have prevented him from actually  going on to 
make such a claim. 
In short, he was eligible  to make a claim  for unemployment and illness, so his employment  status  isnt 
a reason Id uphold his complaint on.
cost disclosure
The second  relevant issue is what our adjudicator noticed about  the cost of the PPI and how it was 
presented to Mr W. The adjudicator thought, for example, that the information Mr W was given about  
the total PPI cost wasnt entirely clear, mainly the interest element.
The type of PPI sold to Mr W was a single premium policy. This means  the whole  amount of the PPI 
had to be paid for up-front in one single  payment. So as well as his car loan, Mr W was lent the 
money to also pay for the PPI. And like his car-loan, the PPI part of the loan attracted interest over the 
48 month term. Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI interest part of the loan was made clear enough 
on the finance  agreement  which Mr W signed.
Itc said because Mr W hadnt specifically  complained  about  this issue,  we shouldnt be assessing it or 
using it to decide  whether  or not the policy  was mis-sold.  However, we do have an inquisitorial remit 
which allows us to look at all the aspects of the sale. And sellers of these types of policy  had a duty to 
Ref: DRN10490563provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. But there are other considerations I need 
to take account of.
For example, Im taking  into account  that Mr Ws main  complaint point was about something quite  
specific and this was unrelated to the policys cost.  I also take account  that when he complained Mr W 
was represented by a claims management  company which should have been able to identify the 
issues Mr W was unhappy about. And that issue was clearly  only about  his self-employment status, 
not the cost.
Like our adjudicator, I certainly think Itc could have done more to be completely clear  about  the 
interest element of the PPI policy. It was important  information that ought  to have been set out on the 
finance agreement. 
Nevertheless, I think Mr W knew about the overall  cost and was comfortable to go ahead. I say this 
because he was given  cost information elsewhere.  I note Mr W bought two other forms of insurance  in 
addition to the PPI. To me this indicates that he wanted protection against a number of eventualities 
which included losing his income, his car having unforeseen mechanical problems,  or being written 
off.  
Collectively, the documents we have from the sale also tend to show there was a reasonably lengthy 
discussion about all the insurance products he went on to buy, including the PPI. I think he would 
have been able to see that the overall insurance costs were  significant  amounts. This is because they 
added, considerably, to the overall cost he was being asked to pay and he would have been able to 
see this on the finance agreement he signed.
But I also note that because this was an advised sale where the various insurances were 
recommended to him, a demands and needs form was filled out during the sales meeting. Mr W 
signed this document. 
Looking at the demands and needs form carefully, Mr W was told the PPI was optional. I think  he 
would have also had access to the entire cost of the PPI on this form  i.e. the cost of the PPI policy 
plus the interest, albeit not broken down. Thats because it was set out on the demands and needs 
form, as £3,037.  The full costs of the other two insurance products were set out on this form too. 
So for me, the bottom line is that Mr W would  have been able to see the full costs of all the individual 
insurance policies he was buying.  I accept entirely our adjudicators point, that this should  have all 
been replicated on the finance agreement  and that this document  should  have shown  the PPI with 
and without the interest. Disappointingly, only the PPI without interest was shown on the finance 
agreement. But I note the interest  for all the combined  insurance products, together with the interest 
charges for all the insurances combined  was set out on the agreement. 
In summary, Itc could and should  have provided  clearer  information about  the total cost of the PPI on 
one composite document. But in this particular  case my view is that Mr W wanted and agreed to all 
these types of insurances. 
He would have also been able to see:
The total amount / cost of PPI being sought; and 
The amount of PPI without any interest added; and
The total cost of all the insurance, with interest, he had agreed to buy.
So I dont currently think theres enough evidence to for me to say that Mr W didnt  know the full cost 
of the PPI. I think the evidence shows there was a discussion about this and he knew all his insurance 
costs were going to push  up, considerably, what he needed to pay. Mr W would have known  the 
overall PPI costs although clearly there were some failings in the way they were broken down  on the 
individual documents he signed.
Ref: DRN10490564Even in accepting these failings,  the evidence  to me is clear that he both wanted PPI protection   and 
knew what the final bill for it would be.
I therefore  dont feel I can uphold  his complaint on the grounds of cost disclosure failings.
Finally, this brings me to the issue of suitability.  Mr W hasnt complained about this but Ive 
considered that as an advised sale Itc had a duty to make sure the policy was suitable  for him. Overall 
I think  it was.
I think  he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions we sometimes see 
in these policies.  He wouldnt have  received  a fully proportionate refund on the PPI if hed cashed it in 
early, but theres no evidence he would have been likely to do this and the costs for doing so were 
explained to him. In the event of a successful  claim,  the PPI could have been useful in helping to pay 
his finance commitments.  So I dont think the recommendation to take out this cover  was 
unreasonable in the circumstances  of this particular case.
my provisional  decision
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold  so dont think Ill be asking Itc Compliance Limited to pay Mr W 
any money back. 
However, Ill look very carefully at any other information, arguments or evidence either party wants to 
send me before I issue my final decision. This needs to be done by 11 July 2019.
Ref: DRN1049056