K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr M holds with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). Hed planned to sell his home and repay the mortgage, as part of a wider plan 
to retire abroad. These plans were  aborted when his buyer pulled out just before exchange 
and completion, leaving  Mr Ms financial arrangements severely disrupted. He believes the 
sale fell through  because  of delays on NatWests part. To remedy  the situation, he says 
NatWest should  buy his home, clear the mortgage,  pass the residue to him and pay 
substantial compensation for the damage  it caused him.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  and 
Ive used my own words to do so. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published. 
During 2018, Mr M was putting in place detailed  arrangements to emigrate in his retirement. 
Using money from his pension fund, he bought a new home overseas, and arranged to buy 
a park home  in the UK. His intention was to live in the former and rent out the latter as an 
income stream. Central to this plan was the sale of Mr Ms current  home; he aimed  to clear 
the NatWest mortgage  and use the remaining sale proceeds to clear all his consumer  debts 
and add to his pension fund.
Mr M had a buyer in place, but he wanted to keep possession of the garage. This meant  
splitting the title so that Mr M could retain the garage whilst selling the house and redeeming 
the mortgage. This required NatWests permission, and it took most of the summer  of 2018 
for this to happen,  and a plan to exchange contracts  in August had to be aborted.  It was only 
in later September 2018 that the parties  were in a position to work on a new date for 
exchange and completion.
Matters came to a head at the beginning  of October 2018; intense negotiations had been  
going on to agree a completion date,  and in the background,  Mr Ms solicitors were  trying to 
obtain a redemption statement from NatWest. A completion date of 2 October 2018 had 
been agreed, but no statement arrived from NatWest  this was later attributed  to a system 
problem. 
On 3 October 2018, the buyer pulled out of the purchase, leaving Mr Ms plans in disarray. 
Hed put his possessions into storage in preparation for shipping them abroad, and hed 
ended his utility  contracts, so now had no landline or broadband. He had to suspend the 
Ref: DRN15346552purchase of the park home and continue funding his income from his pension, which  
depleted it when  hed expected to be adding to it. Also,  he was unable  to repay his 
consumer debts.
When Mr M complained, NatWest offered him the following:
a six-month extension  of the mortgage  end date from February 2019 to August 2019;
a six-month interest-free period, starting  from the beginning of October  2018  and running 
to April 2019;
on production of relevant invoices, reimbursement of Mr Ms reasonable conveyancing 
costs relating to the aborted sale and the eventual  successful sale; and
£2,000 compensation for his time,  trouble and upset.
Mr M brought his complaint to us; he says that NatWests offer doesnt undo the financial 
and personal impact of him not being able to execute his plans. He says NatWest should 
buy the house off him and make good  all his other  losses.
Our case-handler wasnt persuaded NatWest should do more than it had already done to 
settle the complaint, so didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr M has asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments (including Mr Ms various  
responses - with enclosures  - to the investigators view) to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations before 
dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Im aware Mr M has raised concerns  about  how the case-handler has handled his complaint. 
We have a separate process for dealing with complaints  from consumers who are unhappy 
with the service weve provided, and Mr M has received a response  from the case-handlers 
manager. Here, my focus is the underlying complaint against NatWest.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also my judgement  to make 
on when we have  everything we need  to reach a fair conclusion.  This might seem an 
immensely complex affair on first glance;  actually, I think  its a simpler complaint than its 
been made to look. 
To find in Mr Ms favour and make the award of redress  hes seeking,  I have  to be 
persuaded on the balance  of probabilities that the sole reason Mr Ms sale fell through,  with 
no other factor contributing, is the combination of delays caused by NatWests handling of 
the title split and the redemption statement. Ive read all the evidence, and very simply, I 
cant fairly reach that conclusion.
Ref: DRN15346553Ive paid very close attention to the sequence  of emails from the first week  of October  2018  
that Mr M provided for me to consider. One or two in particular stand out; they were 
exchanged between Mr M and his conveyancing  solicitor on 3 October  2018.  At this point, 
its important, for context, to keep  in mind that two attempts to exchange contracts had 
already failed; one in August 2018  due to the delay in resolving the title split, and another 
just two days before,  apparently due to the delay in obtaining a redemption  statement.
At 10.58am on 3 October, Mr Ms solicitor  emailed asking Mr M to confirm if it was true that 
he now preferred to complete on 12 October  2018.  He replied around 40 minutes later 
saying that the buyer had pressed him to complete on 5 October  2018, but that he found  that 
impossible on a number of grounds.
Later the same day, Mr Ms solicitor emailed  him back with the news  that the buyer had 
pulled out. In that email,  the solicitor noted  that no reason had been given, and then said:
It does  sit oddly with me that the buyer  and their solicitor were patient and didn't push 
matters whilst the issue with NatWest was being resolved, yet the buyer now pulls out when 
we just need to agree  a completion date suitable to both you and them.
It sits oddly  with me too. Mr M may think now that his buyer had been  pushed too far by 
NatWests delays, but it seems to me that he cant possibly  have  thought that at the time. 
Otherwise why would he still have been  trying to delay completion himself  for a further week 
beyond the buyers  preferred date? 
Whatever the number of grounds for Mr M regarding completion on 5 October 2018 as 
being impossible  might have been,  any shortcomings on NatWests part cant have been  
amongst them.  A resolution to the problems with the title split had been found, and whilst the 
redemption statement still hadnt yet materialised, that cant have been  a reason for Mr M 
wanting to delay matters further.  I say that because the day before, on 2 October 2018, Mr M 
had said, in another email to his solicitor:
{F}, are you ready to go?  I know ideally you want to receive the redemption  statement 
from NatWest  first, but I am not so concerned  about this now.  With their Complaints 
department already on their back,  I am sure they will not want  another  complaint filed 
against them  in the unlikely even  {sic} they come up with an unjustified silly number. We 
already had a redemption  statement from them a few weeks  ago, and I've always been  up to 
date with mortgage payments.
That takes the absence of a redemption statement out of the equation. Mr M clearly had his 
reasons for not wanting to complete on the buyers  preferred date of 5 October 2018; and to 
be clear,  I dont need to know what they were. It was entirely Mr Ms prerogative to want  to 
delay matters a further week, but it was also his choice, and it introduces that other  
contributing factor that I alluded  to earlier. It introduces the very real likelihood  that the last 
straw that caused Mr Ms buyer to pull out was not NatWests delays but Mr Ms attempted  
delay. That is enough for me to conclude that Mr Ms underlying  claim that NatWest is to 
blame for his current situation has to fail. 
Im not unsympathetic  towards Mr Ms current situation; Ive no doubt whatsoever that its 
immensely stressful for him. But I dont find that hes in that position solely,  or even 
predominantly, because  of what NatWest did, or didnt do. Thats  not to say for one moment  
that NatWest is without fault.  But the bank has admitted  its shortcomings  and made  a 
settlement offer that, in all the circumstances, I regard as more than generous.   
Ref: DRN15346554my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1534655