K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs H hold with NRAM Limited.  The complaint 
originally had many strands to it, but in a jurisdiction decision  earlier  this year, an 
ombudsman colleague  concluded that we could only consider the following matters:
the arrears balance that accrued  since March  2015 hasnt been  calculated and 
applied fairly.
how NRAM has dealt with Mr and Mrs Hs financial difficulties since March 2015.  
the customer service Mr H received  from one of NRAMs  collection agents during a 
call in September 2017. 
the mortgage was transferred from Northern Rock plc to NRAM Limited.
background
Following the jurisdiction decision from my fellow ombudsman, the merits of the complaint 
was looked into by one of our investigators; he wasnt  persuaded to recommend any part of 
the complaint  be upheld.  By way of an email dated 9 July 2019, Mr and Mrs H asked that the 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs H. Ive come to much  the same overall conclusions as the investigator,  
and for broadly the same reasons.
Regarding the arrears  balance since March, the first point  to make is that we dont provide 
an auditing service for consumers; thats not our role or function. The second  point Id make 
is that the court has already made  a money  judgement on the amount of arrears. In an order 
dated 6 March 2018 suspending NRAMs eviction warrant, the County  Court  found the 
arrears to be over £39,350.  
Since that time, Mr and Mrs H have paid nothing themselves. This is despite a promise  from 
Mr H when bringing the complaint to us in January  2018 that he would clear  the arrears  in 
full with money provided by his former employer that had just re-hired  him. Meanwhile,  
contributions from the Department for Work  and Pensions stopped  in May 2018. As a result,  
the arrears had grown to over £59,650 by the time of the investigators view in June of this 
year. If Mr and Mrs H disagree with that figure, theyll need to commission  their own audit 
and present the resulting  evidence to the court in the event NRAM resumes  action to enforce 
its eviction warrant.
Lenders have a duty to treat consumer in difficulties sympathetically. Wed expect a lender to 
consider offering help to consumers going  through a temporary problem, especially in 
situations where it can be seen their situation  is likely to improve. The difficulty here is that 
Mr and Mrs Hs difficulty in getting  on top of their arrears  has been anything  but temporary. 
Theyve paid nothing to NRAM  themselves since March 2016.  NRAM has shown remarkable 
patience and lenience  towards Mr and Mrs H for a very long time. Its not obliged  to do so 
indefinitely.
Being in arrears,  and having to deal with a lender that is seeking to recover the money  owed 
to it, is an inherently stressful situation. It forces the parties into conversations that can, 
Ref: DRN15899362inevitably, become  confrontational. I dont imagine for one moment  that Mr and Mrs H wont  
have been distressed by being told on the phone in September 2017 they had one week  in 
which to demonstrate their ability to deal with the arrears. But everything has a context; and 
just because something is unwelcome, doesnt  make it unfair. 
Lastly, there is the question of the identity of the business involved here. Mr and Mrs H have 
long argued that because  they originally borrowed the money  from Northern Rock,  theres  no 
legal basis for them  to pay anything to NRAM. Im afraid theyre wrong. Firstly,  NRAM is the 
successor company  to Northern Rock; the transfer took place in 2010. Letters were sent to 
all borrowers in 2010; Ive no reason to believe Mr and Mrs H didnt receive their notification 
letter.
Secondly, by virtue  of the various court orders going  back  to 2012, the legal right for NRAM 
to recover money from Mr and Mrs H has already  been well-established.  Ive no power to 
overturn that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1589936