K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that AWP Assistance UK Ltd failed to provide roadside assistance when his 
vehicle broke down.
background
Mr A had a motoring breakdown insurance policy with AWP Assistance UK Ltd (AWP)  which 
covered his motor  caravan whilst he was travelling in continental Europe.
Mr A was on holiday in Germany with his family (including a small child)  when his motor 
caravan ran out of fuel. He called AWP for roadside assistance.
AWP failed to provide  assistance to Mr A. He was waiting on an autobahn  for assistance for 
more than eight  hours  after he called AWP, much  of that time in darkness. 
Eventually, he was assisted by the German police,  who put him touch with an organisation 
who arranged for the vehicle  to be recovered at a cost to Mr A of just over 281 euros.
Mr A complained to AWP. They admitted theyd failed to provide Mr A with the service 
promised. And they offered him £500 to both cover the cost of the recovery  and compensate 
Mr A for his trouble.
Mr A was unhappy with AWPs  response. He says theyve provided  an answer to only one 
element of his complaint. And he thinks the compensation offered is inadequate.  On that 
basis, he complained  to us.
Our investigator looked into and upheld the complaint. She thought AWP should pay Mr As 
recovery costs  at just over 281 euros   and pay Mr A £300  in compensation for his trouble 
and upset.
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. He still believes the 
compensation to be inadequate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP have admitted that they were at fault in this case  and that Mr A and his family spent a 
stressful and uncomfortable eight hours  plus at the roadside when they could and should 
have been assisted much  sooner.
AWP explained to Mr A that theyd wrongly  directed the request for assistance  to their 
Austrian team, despite the fact that Mr A was in Germany  and nowhere near the Austrian  
border. They also said their Austrian  team  had then not referred  the request to their agents 
in Germany  which they should have  done. This led to four hours  delay before the German  
team even began  to respond.
It also seems  the German team initially instructed an agent who was a considerable distance  
from where Mr A was waiting, which caused  further  delay.
Ref: DRN19505192Mr A is also aware that the agent who eventually  attended did not have the necessary 
equipment to tow Mr As vehicle  despite  the fact that AWP knew what  Mr As vehicle was 
when they received his call.
AWP were trying to arrange  for another agent to deliver some  fuel to Mr A when the police 
intervened and Mr As vehicle was recovered by another  agency altogether. If the Police 
hadnt helped  Mr A, it would appear  his family would have been waiting longer at the 
roadside for AWP to provide assistance.
The policy specifically says that motor caravans and similar vehicles below a certain size 
and weight  which Mr As vehicle was  can be covered. And its a policy specifically 
designed to cover travel in continental Europe.
So I cant see any excuse for the poor standard of service provided to Mr A. To be fair, AWP 
have admitted this and have advised  Mr A that theyve taken steps  to try to ensure theres no 
repetition of these failings in future.
So, the question  for me is simply whether the compensation offered to Mr A by AWP is fair 
and reasonable.  
AWP offered  £500 in total. Theyve since told us that this includes £253 (equivalent at the 
time their offer was made to just over 280 euros) to cover the recovery costs Mr A incurred. 
So, thats a further £247 in compensation for Mr As trouble and upset.
Our investigator thought AWP should  pay the recovery costs. And add £300 in 
compensation. That would come to a total of around £550  depending  on exchange rates at 
the relevant time.
I can understand Mr As frustration about  what must have been a very stressful  experience. 
And as Ive said, I cant see any excuse for AWPs failings in this case.
However, I think the award  suggested  by our investigator is fair. It goes  without saying that 
AWP should cover the recovery costs  Mr A paid  at current exchange rates.  The further 
£300 for trouble and upset is in line with the kinds of awards we make  in these 
circumstances.
I have to ask Mr A to accept that our role is to compensate him and not to fine or otherwise 
punish AWP. So its not for us to set awards  at a level that will definitively discourage AWP 
from erring in this way again, as Mr A may think we should. 
Mr A has also suggested that the policy allows for a replacement vehicle to be provided  if 
the vehicle has not been repaired within eight hours.  And also requires  AWP to consider 
providing overnight accommodation  for the vehicles owner and passengers.  
Hes pointed  out that neither was offered in this case. And that either or both would have 
cost significantly more  than the compensation AWP offered  him  and indeed, the amount 
we think is fair.
Whilst I take Mr As point, I dont think in all fairness that AWP should have considered 
providing a replacement vehicle when the problem was simply that Mr As motor  caravan 
had run out of fuel.
Ref: DRN19505193AWP have accepted that they caused the significant delays Mr A experienced, but I dont 
think they can have  been expected to pre-empt  any problems at the outset by offering Mr A 
overnight accommodation. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied that the compensation suggested by our investigator is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint.
AWP Assistance UK Ltd should  pay Mr A:
the equivalent in pounds sterling of the costs in euros Mr A incurred when his vehicle  
was recovered  (at the exchange  rate available at the time the payment is made); and
£300 compensation for his trouble and upset.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1950519