K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Clydesdale Bank  Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) didnt  do 
enough to help them when they fell victim to a scam.  They feel Clydesdale could have done 
more to prevent  the payment going through, or to recover the money from the scammer.
background
Mr and Mrs D had found a van they wanted to buy on an online auction site, and the seller  
asked them to pay via bank transfer.  So, on 29 September  2018  Mr and Mrs D made  a 
payment of £1,950 from their Clydesdale current account to pay for the van. They went to 
pick up the van on 30 September,  but when  they arrived at the location theyd been told to 
go to there  was no van, and no seller. They were also unable  to reach the seller using the 
contact details theyd  previously been given.  It was at this point they realised that theyd 
been the victims  of a scam. 
Mr and Mrs D contacted  their bank, Clydesdale, straight away to tell them what had 
happened, and to see if there was anything they could do to help. Clydesdale  contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  to see if any of Mr and Mrs Ds money could be retrieved, but they 
confirmed that no money  remained in the account.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with how Clydesdale handled things, so they referred their 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked at what had happened,  he explained to Mr 
and Mrs D that he felt Clydesdale had done  all they could to try and help,  so he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed;  they say the banks involved should have been on notice that the 
account they were  making the payment to was being used for fraud, as the scammer was 
known to the police. They also feel that Clydesdale should have taken steps  to trace  where 
their money had gone after it left the beneficiary bank. Because an informal  agreement  
couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave Mr and Mrs Ds account.  And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover  funds 
from the beneficiary bank.  So unfortunately, in the circumstances, I dont think  it needs to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs D with the £1,950 they lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  When Mr and Mrs D made the payment, they didnt 
Ref: DRN13798672know they were dealing with a scammer, so they sent the money  in good faith. This means  
that  at the time  they wanted the payment to go ahead and authorised  it to be made. And 
I have taken that into account  when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and   
regulated firms  like Clydesdale are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised  by the FCA in 
recent years by the British Bankers Associations  February 2016  report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
A banks  responsibility  to make additional checks is particularly important in light of the 
environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent years - 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs D when they made  the payment of £1,950, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. Both parties accept that Mr and Mrs D authorised the payment. This means 
that Clydesdale were under an obligation to process the payment. But, as explained  above,  
there are some situations in which it should reasonable have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the payment. For example, if the payment was out of character 
for Mr and Mrs D.
But having  thought carefully about  how Mr and Mrs D used their account  I dont  think  there 
was anything sufficiently  suspicious  or unusual about the payment that would have 
suggested to Clydesdale  that Mr and Mrs D might be being  scammed. The amount and type 
Ref: DRN13798673of payment wasnt so out of character that I think it should have flagged as suspicious  to 
Clydesdale  who I dont  think  can be expected  to flag every  payment that might  be slightly  
out of the ordinary. So, I dont think anything obvious about  the payment would have 
indicated to Clydesdale that it wasnt legitimate. And it follows  that I dont think  Clydesdale  
did anything wrong  by following the instructions Mr and Mrs D gave and sending the money.
Mr and Mrs D have said that Clydesdale   or the receiving bank  should have been  aware  
there were potential issues with the account  they were sending  the funds  to, as they say the 
scammers details  were  known to the police. But Clydesdale would only know that if the 
police or the receiving bank chose to share it with them,  and Ive seen nothing to suggest  
that is the case here. So, I dont agree that Clydesdale would have been aware that there 
were any problems with the beneficiary account.
When Mr and Mrs D told Clydesdale  that they had been scammed, it contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  the following day to see if any of the money was still in the receiving 
account and could be retrieved. I can see no obvious reason why it didnt contact  the 
beneficiary bank  on the same day. But having  said this, I dont think this made a difference  
to the recovery of funds.  This is because all of Mr and Mrs Ds funds were withdrawn by the 
scammer on 29 September,  just hours after they were sent. It should be noted that any 
further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers account  
werent the responsibility of Clydesdale, as it wouldnt have unrestricted access  to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve  the money was all 
Clydesdale could do to help Mr and Mrs D at that stage.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs D have  lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  
will have been very upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say 
that Clydesdale should have done  more to prevent them from losing their money. I cant hold 
Clydesdale responsible for the scammers actions, and I think  it did all it could to help Mr and 
Mrs D once they knew what  had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Clydesdale to compensate Mr and Mrs D for their loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1379867