K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W has complained that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) did not 
carry out proper  affordability checks when lending  to her.
Background
Mrs W took 8 loans  with Sunny between August 2015 and April 2017.  Each  of the loans  was 
due to be repaid  over a period of six months   but in most cases  Mrs W repaid the loans 
early. Some  of Mrs Ws loans overlapped with one another. The final two loans are still 
outstanding. A summary of Mrs Ws borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate  RepaidInstalments  
(month)Amount*Highest
Repayment
1 18/08/2015 04/02/2016 6 £250.00 £97.40
2 27/11/2015 14/04/2016 6 £250.00 £192.60
3 01/01/2016 28/05/2016 6 £600.00 £336.88
4 10/06/2016 14/08/2016 6 £250.00 £74.89
5 19/08/2016 21/10/2016 6 £500.00 £166.77
6 27/12/2016 01/02/2017 6 £500.00 £162.92
7 06/02/2017 Outstanding 6 £950.00 £287.26
8 02/04/2017 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £350.67
* The highest repayment  figure  is sometimes made up of multiple payments  when the loans 
overlapped.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  Sunny refund the interest  and 
charges on loans 3 to 8 as well as making amendments  to Mrs Ws credit  file. He said if 
Sunny had carried out proportion checks,  it would have realised from loan 3 that Mrs W was 
in an individual  voluntary arrangement (IVA). Therefore, she would  unlikely to be able to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. He also concluded that by loan 7 onwards the overall  
pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing  suggested  she had become persistently reliant on short-term  
loans. 
Sunny didnt accept  the adjudicators view. As the case could not be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Sunny  lent to Mrs W. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Sunny.
Ref: DRN11800122Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs W could 
repay her loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  had done  anything wrong when  it lent loans 1 and 2. As 
there isnt a dispute about these loans,  I have focused my decision on loans 3  8; the loans 
still in dispute  by Sunny.
Sunny told us it undertakes eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks  before 
making a decision  as to whether to provide a loan.  I can see it asked Mrs W for details of her 
income and expenses. Sunny also told us it carried out a credit  search  but has not provided  
us with the results  of those searches.
Ref: DRN11800123When loan 3 was taken out, loans  1 and 2 were  still outstanding. The total monthly 
repayment across all three loans was significant in relation  to Mrs Ws income and needed  to 
be maintained  for more  than one month. So, I think it would have been proportionate to fully 
review and verify Mrs Ws financial circumstances. If Sunny had done so, it would have 
discovered she was in an IVA. I appreciate that Sunny says it did not identify that Mrs W was 
in an IVA from its own credit search but I think a proportionate check  would have gone 
beyond the credit search.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  I think  that this point was reached  by 
loan 7. I say this because:
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1 and 6 of Mrs W taking new loans 
shortly after repaying  previous ones and sometimes overlapping  with one another. 
I think that by loan 7, Sunny ought fairly  and reasonably to have regarded  that 
pattern as established.
So Sunny  ought  to have realised it was more  likely than not Mrs W was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans were leaving  in her 
finances and that Mrs Ws indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. 
Loan 7 was taken out 6 months  after loan 1. It was the largest  loan to date and was 
almost four times  the amount Mrs W borrowed on her first loan. 
Mrs W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over 
an extended period.
I think that Mrs W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards. These loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness  by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
The sheer number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mrs Ws ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 7 and 8 as well as loans 3-6 and Sunny should 
put things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN11800124Putting things  right
Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs W loans 3 - 8. To put things right it should
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3-6, but not including anything Sunny  has already refunded. 
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs W which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loans 7 and 8 (which  are 
still outstanding) and treat any repayments made  by Mrs W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on those loans. If this results in Mrs W having made 
overpayments then Sunny  should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny  should  then refund  the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.**
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on the outstanding loans 7 and 8. If 
this results in a surplus then the surplus  should be paid to Mrs W**. However, if there 
is still an outstanding  balance then Sunny should  try to agree  an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs W. 
E.Remove any adverse  information Sunny has recorded on Mrs Ws credit  file in 
relation to loans  3-6. The overall pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing for 7 and 8 means  any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove any adverse 
information about these loans now. Once  loans 7 and 8 have been repaid Sunny 
should then remove  these loans entirely from Mrs Ws credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax youve deducted, if she asks for one.
**Mrs Ws IVA practitioner has registered an interest  in any award and Mrs W will be aware 
of her obligations under that arrangement.
Ref: DRN11800125My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1180012