K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out the PPI at the same  time as arranging their mortgage  in 1998 in a 
branch of Nationwide.  Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy  provided cover  for Mrs J 
only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say that they knowingly took out the PPI as they wanted to protect their 
mortgage payments.  So there is no suggestion that they werent given a choice about it or 
that it was added without their consent.
Mr and Mrs J and Nationwide disagree  about whether or not this was an advised sale or not. 
I dont need to make a finding on this particular issue because it doesnt make  a difference to 
my decision.  If it was an advised sale it means  that Nationwide,  in recommending  the policy 
to Mr and Mrs J, needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what  I know  of the 
couples circumstances at the time, I think that the policy was suitable.
Mrs J would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. And Mr 
and Mrs J didnt have  any available  savings to fall back on. So it seems to me that they had 
a need for the policy and could have benefitted  from it at what  would have been a difficult  
time.
Nationwide also had to provide Mr and Mrs J with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. Mrs J says that she tried 
to make a claim for unemployment in 2016  but that this was declined because  Mr J was still 
working. She says that Nationwide should have told her about this exclusion. But the policy 
does not exclude claims  for unemployment where  a spouse is still working. According to 
Nationwide, the insurer was awaiting evidence from Mrs J that she was actively  looking for 
work before it processed her claim. 
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy. But Mrs J was not affected by any of the significant terms or exclusions  (for example  
she did not have  a pre-existing medical condition), so I dont think that more  information 
would have caused Mr and Mrs J to change their minds about wanting to purchase cover for 
Mrs J. They  have said themselves that they wanted  the PPI, so I think  they would have 
Ref: DRN15266762bought it anyway. That means they are no worse  off as a result of anything  Nationwide  may 
have done wrong,  so there is nothing that Nationwide needs  to do to put things right.
Mrs J may wish to consider making a complaint against the insurer  if she believes that her 
unemployment claim was incorrectly  declined.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1526676