K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  the PPI. The 
PPI covered Mr S only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will come  as a disappointment  so Ill 
explain why. 
Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that they didnt want the PPI but were  forced  to take it. There is 
no paperwork available from the sale. This isnt surprising considering  the length of time 
since the sale. But I have  to base my decision  on what I think  is more likely to have 
happened. The PPI was sold some  five years after the mortgage was set up in 1987. So I 
think Mr and Mrs S wouldve known it wasnt compulsory or a condition of the lending.  
Without further evidence to support  what Mr and Mrs S have told us, I think  its more  likely 
Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him (as 
sole policy holder)  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think 
that it was. For example  he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr S says he wouldve  received sick pay for up to 12 months and wouldve  received 
redundancy pay from his employer.  He also says he had private health insurance  through  
work and had savings  he couldve relied on. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any 
employee benefits he wouldve received  and for up to 12 months if Mr S was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And having  the policy meant he 
couldve used his savings  the cover other necessary expenses at wouldve been a difficult  
time if he found himself  out of work. The PPI also wouldve provided different cover  to that of 
his health insurance.  The consequences  of not being able to make  his mortgage repayments  
couldve been serious, and I think he wouldve found the PPI useful. I know  Mr S in particular 
is adamant that the PPI was not needed, but based on his circumstances at the time I 
cannot say that this was an unsuitable  recommendation. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Ref: DRN19999662Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs S  and that they feel 
strongly that they were mis-sold the PPI. I want to assure them that Ive considered all 
evidence and testimony both they and Halifax have provided. Mr S makes the point that 
Halifax has upheld his complaint on a later sale of PPI in 2002. But because Halifax has 
upheld another  complaint doesnt mean  it must also uphold this one. Ive only looked at the 
sale of this policy in 1992 and ultimately for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think  
Halifax mis-sold  it. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I wont award any further compensation in this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1999966