K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out alongside a credit card in 1993. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds shouldve taken  reasonable steps to make  Mrs B aware the policy  was optional. As 
this happened  over 20 years ago, Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mrs Bs application form. 
So it has also provided a sample copy of the application form Mrs B is likely to have 
completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy. 
Ive thought about what I know  about  how Lloyds sold these types of policies at the time,  
alongside what Mrs B has told us. And having  done  this, I think  its unlikely Lloyds would 
have added the PPI without Mrs B indicating she wanted it. But I can understand why Mrs B 
cant remember taking the policy now.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs B says she didnt have any employee sick pay benefits or any savings or other  means to 
make her repayments. So she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. Which means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN12878332Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs B any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs B the difference between 
what Mrs B owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1287833