K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund disputed cash  machine withdrawals and 
petrol transactions made  on his account.
background
Mr S says that a number  of fraudulent transactions, totalling £5,380,  were  made  from his 
Lloyds current account between 10 April 2018 and 21 April 2018  these were made up of 
cash machine withdrawals and transactions for petrol. 
There were some large deposits into the account  prior to this  on 28 March 2018  a deposit 
of £2,650 was made into the account,  with a further deposit of £3,000  made into the account  
on 29 March 2018. Mr S has told us that these transactions were also genuine and were  
proceeds from an insurance claim and the sale of an off road vehicle.
Mr S explained that he lost his card during a night out on 1 April 2018. On 2 April 2018, he 
contacted Lloyds to report this and ordered a new card and PIN. Mr S says that he didnt 
receive either the PIN or card, which Lloyds say were dispatched separately on 3 April 2018  
and 4 April 2018.
Mr S has told us he only noticed the money was missing when he received an alert text from 
Lloyds on 21 April 2018, saying there  was only £3.50 left in his account  he called Lloyds 
on the same  day to report the disputed transactions. 
Lloyds didnt accept  Mr Ss disputed transaction claim. It said the transactions  were  made  
using the replacement card and PIN and it thought Mr S authorised  the payments. Lloyds 
say there  is no explanation  of how his new card and PIN could have been intercepted. It said 
that Mr S normally checked  his online  banking  regularly, but stopped  using it when the 
disputed transactions  started.
Lloyds also said that it couldnt see any reason for why Mr S asked for his PIN to be 
changed  Mr S told Lloyds that he wanted to change  it as hed previously given the PIN to 
his girlfriend, as she used the card sometimes. Lloyds  thought  it evident that as Mr S had 
given his PIN to his girlfriend, he trusted  her, so there would have been no reason  to change 
the PIN.
Mr S was unhappy with Lloyds response  and so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but she didnt  uphold it. Having looked at the 
sequence of events and the circumstances she thought it more likely than not that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion. Hes said that he wasnt  in the area at the 
time and has sent evidence, through an invite and photographs, of a wedding  that he was 
attending. He didnt agree  that he had authorised  the transactions  and asked for his 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
Ref: DRN11704992evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Lloyds is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Service Regulations 2017  (the PSRs  2017) . Im 
satisfied from the banks technical evidence  that Mr Ss replacement card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But Mr S says he didnt make  or know about  the 
transactions, so is asking  for a refund  to the value of the disputed  transactions.  So I need to 
think about whether  the evidence I have suggests that its more likely than not Mr S 
consented to the transactions  being  made.  
From what  Ive seen and having  considered  everything carefully,  I think its more likely than 
not Mr S did authorise the transactions. I say this because:
-The technical evidence Lloyds has provided shows  me that the new card and PIN 
were used  to make  the disputed  withdrawals
-Lloyds systems show that the new card and PIN were dispatched separately to Mr 
Ss correct address  on different days. Mr S has provided  us with a photograph of his 
front door. The letterbox isnt shared  and delivers mail directly into the house  and Mr 
S has told us there is no problems  with his post. So on balance,  Im satisfied the card 
and PIN were delivered to Mr Ss home address. 
-It follows that somebody Mr S knew, who had access to the property, could have  
intercepted the card/PIN following delivery. I also dont think the pattern  of the 
disputed transaction  is typical of an opportunistic  fraudster. Had the card and PIN 
been intercepted  by an unconnected third party, I would expect they would have  tried 
to gain as much  from the account, as quickly as they could. Alongside  this, there  
were no balance enquiries during the disputed  transactions, or attempts to use the 
card after the disputed transactions are reported.  Again this is not what I would 
expect to see from an opportunistic fraudster.
-It is also unusual that the last disputed transaction  happened less than two hours  
before Mr S reported the disputed transactions  to Lloyds.  The last transaction  was at 
14:23 on 21/4/2018 and Mr S contacted Lloyds at 15:50  on the same day. There are 
no further attempts  to use the card. But how would  an opportunistic  fraudster have 
known that Mr S had cancelled the card and PIN. This suggests to me that the 
person using the card knew Mr S had reported  things to Lloyds, so it follows  they 
knew not to use the card anymore. 
-Its not entirely clear  how Mr S lost his card on a night when he hadnt  used  it, hes 
told us that he frequently loses his card and it can fall out when he takes  his phone 
out of his pocket.  Im not persuaded for why Mr S changed his PIN due to suspicion 
over his girlfriend knowing  it. As hed previously indicated to Lloyds that hed given 
his card to his girlfriend  to use, so presumably he was well aware that she knew  the 
PIN
-Lloyds records of when Mr S accessed his online banking  shows that he checked  it 
frequently on the days leading up to the transactions but then stopped. With the 
account not being checked for 19 days between Mr S reporting his card lost and 
receiving a text saying he had £3.50 left in his account.  
-I think this is surprising  and it seems unusual that Mr S would stop checking his 
account at the same  time his card had left his possession.  I would  expect that Mr S 
wouldve been keen  to have access to his funds, having  recently deposited  a large  
sum. Looking at the spending patterns on Mr Ss account, 19 days seems like a long 
time for him to go not needing his card. Had Mr S not been aware of what 
transactions were  being made  on his account I think its more  likely than not he would 
Ref: DRN11704993have logged on to check his account  or been concerned  about  not receiving his 
card/PIN -  in which case I would have  expected  him to contact Lloyds sooner, but 
that didnt happen here.
I acknowledge that Mr S has said that he wasnt  at the locations  at the time of the 
transactions. But Mr S didnt have to carry out the transactions himself in order  to be liable 
for them under the relevant rules. All things considered, for the reasons above, Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not Mr S was aware that transactions  were taking place 
on his account  and so authorised the payments.  It follows  that Lloyds is entitled to hold him 
liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1170499