K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement with 
ALD Automotive Limited, trading as Vauxhall Leasing, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire agreement with Vauxhall Leasing  that he 
signed in November 2016. He says that there were issues with the battery within  a few 
months of the car being supplied to him. He took the car to the dealer in January, February 
and October 2018  because  of those issues. 
He complained to Vauxhall Leasing about  the issues with the cars battery. It said that a fault 
with the battery  was found in October  2018 and the battery was replaced  but it believes that 
the fault wasnt one that could be deemed to have been present at the time the car was 
delivered to Mr R. It also says that Mr R was provided with a hire car while his car was being 
repaired. Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She didnt think that 
there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the issues that Mr R had experienced wouldve 
been there at the point of sale and hed accepted the repairs. So she didnt  think  that it would 
be reasonable to say that Vauxhall Leasing should allow  him to replace the car or to 
reimburse him for any of his monthly payments.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he experienced the fault in the first two months  and he called out a breakdown service. 
He also says that he returned the car to the dealer before January 2018 and that hes paying  
for a new car, it shouldnt  be faulty and he hasnt  been treated  fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vauxhall Leasing,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was a new car and I consider 
that it was reasonable for him to expect  that it would be free from even minor defects at that 
time. Satisfactory quality also covers durability  which means that the components within  the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount  of time  but exactly how long that time is 
will depend  on a number  of factors.  
Mr R says that that he experienced the fault with the cars battery  in the first two months  
after the car was supplied  to him and that he called out a breakdown service. He also says 
that he returned the car to the dealer because of that issue before January 2018. But hes 
not been able to provide  any documentary evidence  from that time to show  that he had 
issues with the cars  battery before January 2018.
The car had its first service in January 2018  and the dealer recorded its mileage as being 
18,300. Mr R had asked for the battery  to be checked so it was tested but was found  to have 
a good recharge. Mr R returned the car to the dealer the following month  when its mileage 
Ref: DRN12595822was 20,292 and the job card says: carried  out battery test  good  battery  and fully charged. 
No fault found at time of inspection. 
Mr R returned the car to the dealer in October 2018  because of recurring issues with the 
cars battery.  The job card shows that the car had been driven for 32,303  miles and that the 
battery failed a test as it wasnt holding a charge so it was replaced. Vauxhall Leasing  says 
that it authorised  a replacement hire car for Mr R while his car was in for repairs.
 
Although Mr R says that he had issues with the cars battery  within a few months of the car 
being supplied  to him, the first documentary  evidence  of his concerns about  the battery is 
from January 2018  more than a year after the car had been supplied  to him and in that 
time hed been  able to drive 18,300 miles in it. No fault with the car battery was found  then 
or in February 2018.
A fault with the battery was found  in October  2018  and the battery was replaced.  But that 
was nearly two years after the car had been  supplied to Mr R and in that time the car had 
been driven for 32,303  miles.
I sympathise with Mr R for the difficulties that hes had with the cars battery. But Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the cars battery was faulty when the 
car was supplied to him or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time. The battery  
was replaced by the dealer in October 2018 under the cars warranty and the hire agreement 
ended in December  2019. When Mr R returned  the car to Vauxhall Leasing it had been 
driven for 43,884 miles in the three  year term of the agreement.
I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Vauxhall Leasing  to refund to Mr R any of the monthly payments that hes made  for the car, 
to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1259582