K822xcomplaint
Ms P complains  that Clements  Europe  Limited  acted  unfairly and unreasonably in failing to 
renew her private health insurance policy.  She wants matters put right.
background 
Ms P had a private health insurance policy administered by Clements.  It was due for renewal 
in June 2017. Ms P said she was told that the renewal had happened by her agent, but 
Clements had actually cancelled the policy. Ms P denied  receiving  any emails from 
Clements asking for payment and further  information before the renewal  could go ahead.  
Ms P thought shed provided  everything needed to renew the policy  and said her agent 
hadnt been told the renewal hadnt happened either, even though  it was dealing with 
Clements due to Ms Ps pregnancy.
Ms P complained through her agent  when her claims were rejected by Clements  on the 
basis that she was uninsured at the time. She suspected that a decision was taken not to 
renew the policy because Clements knew about her pregnancy. Clements said the policy  
was ended due to lack of payment, and that it had emailed and called Ms P several times to 
ask for payment before  cancelling the policy. It accepted that it hadnt written to the agent  
about the issue as it had incorrectly  failed  to record its involvement. Clements said it couldnt 
take payment  without  Ms Ps consent, which it didnt have in relation to the renewal of her 
policy. It accepted  that it hadnt provided  the best level of service when dealing with the 
agent and by sending the renewal notice late, but refused to reinstate the policy.
Ms P complained to us. The investigators view was that Clements was at fault. It hadnt 
written to Ms P at her permanent  home address (as Ms P had requested  when completing 
the application form). She thought Ms P wouldve responded as she contacted  her agent in 
December 2017  to chase up the missing renewal notice, and that Clements shouldve  
contacted the agent too. The investigator accepted  that payment  of the premium was 
needed, and that the policy  said if no payment  was made, it would end. But she also noted 
that under  the terms and conditions of the policy, if it had been  renewed, Ms P wouldnt have 
been able to claim for her medical  costs relating to her pregnancy  as she hadnt  had a policy  
for longer than 18 months. The investigator said that this meant  only compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by failing to contact Ms P correctly, failing to contact her agent,  
and sending the renewal notice after the policy had lapsed should be paid;  she thought £250 
was fair and reasonable.
Ms P disagreed. She said her claim wasnt for costs  relating to her pregnancy, but also said 
shed paid a lot of money  to have her baby delivered. Ms P said she gave Clements her 
credit card details. The investigator  said that there  was no evidence  of Ms P giving payment 
details, but the evidence  showed she didnt respond  to the emails asking for money. She 
asked Ms P to confirm what costs she wanted  paid.  Ms P sent a copy  of a signed  renewal 
form with credit card details set out and evidence that her agent  was told the renewal had 
been processed. She didnt confirm  what outcome  she wanted to achieve,  though  she sent 
details of medical treatment in October 2017, which was after the original policy had ended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14855302Renewal
I dont think Clements has acted entirely fairly  and reasonably in relation to the renewal,  but I 
also dont think that its completely  to blame either. Clements did make mistakes  it 
shouldve written to Ms P at her permanent  home  address (as agreed when the policy was 
taken out) and it shouldve added her agents  details to the account (and contacted  it); it 
shouldve contacted Ms P before her original policy ended and sent a renewal notice earlier. 
These are all failings for which compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms P 
should be paid.
I accept the agent  was told that the renewal was processed by Clements; but with the 
exception of payment,  all was in hand. I deal with payment below.
Its fair and reasonable to refuse to renew a policy when payment isnt made. The signed 
payment form was for the first year of the policy and there was no consent from Ms P for 
payment for future years to be taken using those payment details. When the online renewal 
form was returned  to Clements  in December 2017, no payment details were given. And I can 
see that Clements was emailing Ms P on her correct email  address. The evidence  shows 
that its more likely than not there was an interaction  with Ms P at the time as the information  
needed to progress the renewal was received. I also think  theres a duty on policyholders to 
notice that they havent paid for a policy and to raise  the issue.  I dont think the fact 
Clements didnt tell the agent about the payment problem made any difference  Ms P had 
been told and payment  wasnt  made.
The policy didnt renew because Ms P didnt pay for it. I cant  say thats  unfair or 
unreasonable given the efforts  made  by Clements  to tell her that payment hadnt  been 
made. I also note that the policy is clear that if payment isnt received, there  will be no cover  
in place.
October 2017 claim
The policy,  as Ms P accepts, doesnt  cover her pregnancy and natal costs. Ms P hasnt been 
clear but I think she wants the costs  of her medical treatment in October 2017 paid by 
Clements. This was for constipation and abdominal pain.  But this treatment  was carried  out 
after the policy ended and it wasnt renewed because Ms P didnt pay for it. I cant  say its 
fair or reasonable  for this claim to be paid in the circumstances.
Compensation
Ive found that Clements was at fault,  given its failure to give good customer service on 
several points. Money never truly compensates  for trouble and upset suffered, but this 
service looks at the evidence of the trouble and upset the consumer suffered. Having 
considered the evidence,  I think  £250  is fair and reasonable. I can only look at Ms Ps 
trouble and upset,  not that of third parties  such as the agent.  I accept  that Ms P was 
inconvenienced and unhappy  about  the failure to deal with her agent in particular.
Ref: DRN14855303my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Clements Europe Limited should pay 
Ms P £250 compensation for her trouble  and upset. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept  or reject my decision before 
5 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1485530