K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Mr M complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) provided poor service 
through its agents when they made a claim on Mr Cs motor breakdown  policy. 
background
Mr C and Mr M were  abroad when their car broke down.  IPA instructed a recovery agent 
(firm B) to take it to a garage.  Mr C and Mr M say firm Bs driver damaged the bumper and 
the radiator when loading the car onto his truck.  Later on IPA arranged for the car to be 
brought back to the UK so Mr C and Mr M could have the engine repairs  done here. It 
instructed another recovery agent  (firm C) to collect the car from the garage abroad  where  it 
had been assessed initially. Mr C told IPA after the car was delivered  to him by firm C that it 
had significant  new bodywork damage.  He thought firm C was responsible for that. 
Initially IPA said firm B claimed the damage to the front of the car was pre-existing. It also 
said the garage abroad was to blame and that Mr C and Mr M should deal directly with the 
garage about that. It said its motor expert thought the damage to the radiator couldnt  have 
been caused by the car rolling backwards on the recovery  truck,  as it was too high inside the 
engine. It said all the scratches on the car were pre-existing. At one stage,  firm C accepted 
that its driver  had missed the side damage  to the car when he completed a condition 
checklist. It said it would offer Mr C and Mr M £100  as a gesture of goodwill, although it 
seems the proposed payment  was never  made.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint Mr C and Mr M made to us. She said 
there was evidence from photos  that firm B had damaged the front of the car whilst loading  
it. She didnt  think there was evidence that the radiator was damaged by that, so she said 
IPA should pay £204.99 for the repair of the other damage. She noted  that Mr C and Mr M 
thought IPA should have  sent an independent assessor to inspect the car when they got it 
back. She didnt think that was still an option,  given the time that had elapsed.  The 
investigator didnt  think  there was clear evidence that the damage to the bodywork wasnt 
pre-existing. But she thought IPA should  pay £250  for distress and inconvenience, given the 
delay and confusion  it had caused.  And she said it should reissue a cheque  that it had sent 
to Mr C and Mr M (without giving any explanation for it at the time) for general expenses. 
IPA accepted the investigators view. Mr C said that the car had been winched forward  into 
the trucks  cab, so the radiator was pushed back. He also said the car was in immaculate 
condition before it was handed over to IPAs  agents. Mr C said IPA had at first agreed  to pay 
for the repair costs  but had then changed its mind. He thought  it should  pay for the cars 
estimated repair  costs of around £2,000. As the investigators view didnt change, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. I issued  a provisional decision as follows:
Theres evidence that firm B caused  the damage  to the front of the car, and IPA has agreed  
to pay for it to be repaired. I dont think its possible to say for sure whether the radiator was 
damaged. It may or may not have been protected by its position, but IPA hasnt provided 
anything to show that it was. And it seems its motor expert  didnt fully understand the way 
the accident happened. In the absence of any engineering evidence, I think IPA should  pay 
for any accident damage to the radiator.  
Firm C accepts  that when its driver checked  the car, he only recorded  damage to its front. 
The driver said the rest of the car was in average  condition. Whats clear  is that he missed 
significant damage to the side of the car. I think that raises some doubt  about whether the 
Ref: DRN17112692rest of it was checked at all. Mr C and Mr M can only comment on the state  of the car when 
they last saw it. Its possible that damage  was done to it in the garage before firm C collected  
it  but I think it was for firm C to check the car carefully at that point. Had the driver  noted 
any obvious dents  and scratches, Mr C and Mr M would have been able to take that up with 
the garage. But as it didnt do that, it cant show the damage was there  before it took control 
of the car  which was then in its care for the next 13 days. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Mr C and Mr M to ask IPA to arrange  an independent 
inspection when they told it about the new damage  to the bodywork. An independent 
engineer could have commented  on all the external damage to the car (and checked  the 
radiator for accident  damage). Engineers are usually able to give an opinion about how and 
when any damage  is likely to have been  caused.  We asked  IPA recently about  the opinion  it 
got from its motor expert, but it wasnt able to provide  any details of that. We also asked why 
it hadnt arranged  an independent inspection of the car. It wasnt  able to comment on that 
either, given the passage  of time.  
Mr C and Mr Ms car was a highly-modified,  cherished vehicle, used only for special trips.  I 
can only base my decision about its condition on the balance of probabilities. Although any 
car is likely to have minor scratches, I think Mr C and Mr M are likely to have looked after the 
car well. So in my opinion its far more likely than not that the dents and obvious marks on 
the bodywork  werent there when the car left their control. For that reason  and without any 
evidence to the contrary - I think IPA should reimburse them  for the repairs  theyve had done  
to the dents and scratches.  
In summary,  based on the details I have at present,  I think  IPA should refund Mr C and Mr M 
(as agreed) for the repair  of the bumper, plus the cost of the accident damage to the radiator 
and the bodywork dents and scratches. It should  add interest to all the refunds.
In terms of distress and inconvenience, I think the file shows  that there was a great  deal of 
confusion about  which business was potentially responsible for the damage Mr C and Mr M 
complained about.  It took a long time to move  the claim  forward, so Mr C and Mr M were  
without the car for many months. Although they had other transport, that was still a loss for 
them. They then had to fund the repairs themselves, without a satisfactory  explanation  about 
why IPA / its agents werent  responsible  for any of the costs incurred. I think  that must have 
been very frustrating.  In my opinion, IPA should  pay them £350 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.   
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. IPA accepted it. Mr C said repair 
work to the engine  was under way but the bodywork repairs hadnt been started. He said 
hed prefer to provide  quotes for the work, rather than receipts.  He said that was because  
the work  was unlikely  to be done  for four or five months. He said it hadnt been  started  in 
case IPA wanted  to send someone  to inspect the car. Mr C and the investigator agreed that 
he should provide an alternative  quote, but he only provided a quote from his own garage. 
And Mr C didnt explain when asked why it would take so long to start the work. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont usually require  insurers to pay for repairs based on estimates.  So Im still of the 
view that Mr C and Mr M need to pass on receipts to IPA that set out clearly the full sum (for 
Ref: DRN17112693parts and labour)  needed  to repair the car. Its always possible that an insurer  will challenge 
the amount of work  thats been  done  even when itemised receipts are sent to it. So if Mr C 
intends to do the work at his own garage, I think it would be very helpful for him to provide 
IPA with a quote  for the intended work from another garage as soon as possible. I think that 
would limit the chance of the final receipts being  queried. 
As yet, IPA hasnt said it wants to inspect the car, but that may be because  it thought  all the 
repairs had been  started. I think its unlikely it would want to inspect the car at this stage, 
although if it did I cant see why Mr C and Mr M would  object  to that. Otherwise I think the 
repair work should be done as soon as possible (given the lack of an explanation from Mr C 
about why a long delay  is needed). I think that would be in the interests both parties.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do 
the following:
Pay Mr C and Mr M £350 compensation  in total for distress and inconvenience
Reimburse Mr C and Mr M for the cost of repairing the accident  damage to the 
bumper (as agreed) plus the accident damage to the radiator, subject to a 
receipt and a full account of the work  undertaken
Reimburse Mr C and Mr M for the cost of repairing the dents and scratches to 
the cars  bodywork, subject to a receipt  and a full account of the work  
undertaken
Add interest to the refunds above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Reissue the £353.90 cheque for general expenses  and add interest, at the 
simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date it was issued until the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 June  2020.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1711269