K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B, acting  in their capacity of directors of Price Works International Limited, 
complain that their business account  has been closed unreasonably by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
They say there was an issue when completing a form online and they didnt receive the 
letters HSBC sent as they werent  in the country.
Mr and Mrs B have  brought  this complaint together but for ease Ill refer to Mr B throughout. 
background
In September  2016 Mr B temporarily moved  abroad  to look after a relative.  
In the summer  of 2018 HSBC asked  Mr B to update his account  details.  Mr B attempted to 
complete the form online but was unable to complete a section which asked him to describe 
what his business  was. Mr B contacted HSBC in September 2018 to query  why he was 
unable to complete  this section. HSBC couldnt fix the problem at that point so it agreed to 
get back in contact with him by e-mail. 
Mr B says he didnt hear anything from HSBC about  the matter so he didnt complete the 
form. In January 2019 Mr B logged onto his online account but his home  screen was blank. 
He called HSBC  who told him his business  account had been closed. So he made a 
complaint. 
HSBC reviewed the complaint but decided  it would not re-open the account. In its final 
response letter it said it sent multiple  correspondence by various communication  methods 
asking him to complete the online form. As Mr B hadnt completed the form it sent a letter  to 
his UK address   dated 24 July 2018  -making him aware it may close his account if the form 
wasnt completed.  It also wrote to him in October  2018 giving him sixty-five days  notice of 
the closure of his account. As the closure date fell over the Christmas  period it wrote to Mr B 
again in December 2018 giving him a further twenty-one  days before the account would be 
closed. 
In February 2019  Mr B brought  his complaint to this service. He is unhappy HSBC  only sent 
him letters about his account  closure  and that he hadnt received these because he was out 
of the country.  He also felt HSBC should  have done more to contact  him via his online 
account or e-mail  as it did with its marketing messages. Mr B said he had contacted  HSBC  
in for help completing the form in September.  And he felt it could have found out what his 
business did through public records. Mr B wanted  his account to be re-opened.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but decided  not to uphold  it. He felt HSBC  made 
sufficient attempts to contact Mr B about the online form and the account  closure.  So his 
account had been closed  down in line with the terms and conditions.   
Mr B didnt agree. He listened to a recording of the call he had with HSBC  in 
September 2018 and completed a transcript. After reviewing this he felt a section of the 
conversation he had with HSBC about which e-mail address he should  be contacted on had 
been removed.
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
Ref: DRN19381532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to consider here is whether HSBC  has treated Mr B unfairly  and outside of its 
terms and conditions. Having done  so, I dont  think it has. I know  Mr B feels  strongly  about  
this complaint so Ill explain why below.  
Mr B might not agree  with the reasons why he had to complete the form but I only need  to be 
satisfied HSBC had made  him aware he had to complete it. Mr B believes the evidence  
provided by HSBC showing the online warnings  to complete the form arent accurate. 
However, he told this service he saw the warnings whilst he was logged onto his online 
banking. He said these  were asking him to complete the form both before and after he called 
HSBC (in September 2018). During this call he also told HSBC he wouldnt be completing  
the form. So Im satisfied he was aware  he needed to complete the form. 
I accept Mr B made HSBC  aware  of the issue he had when completing  the form. And that he 
feels the call recording is missing an important  part of the conversation.  However, I can see 
HSBC did attempt to contact Mr B by phone after this conversation. And I think he could 
have contacted HSBC again to confirm if the problem  had been  resolved. Therefore Im not 
persuaded the problems Mr B encountered were  sufficient enough for him to decide  he no 
longer needed to complete the form or take any further action. 
The terms and conditions  of the account say HSBC must give Mr B an adequate amount of 
notice (sixty days) of his account closure.  From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC 
gave Mr B the adequate notice by letter. 
Bearing in mind Mr B says he didnt receive  the letters because he wasnt  in the country at 
the time,  I can completely understand why he thinks the account closure was unfair. But Im 
satisfied they were sent. And because Mr B didnt update his address  with HSBC when he 
left the country  the letters were correctly addressed. Therefore  the account closure was in 
line with the terms  and conditions in giving  at least two months notice. 
HSBC says it sent the warning and confirmation about the account closure by letter  as this is 
more secure than sending an e-mail due to e-mails potentially being hacked. Ive also seen 
evidence which shows HSBC attempted to call and sent text messages about the form to 
Mr B. And it attempted to call him warning him about the account closure. So Im satisfied 
HSBC tried to contact Mr B using various  methods.
For me to be able to uphold Mr Bs complaint Id have to conclude  that HSBC  did something  
wrong. And I dont  believe it did. Its entitled to ask its customers  for further information, to 
help safeguard itself and them, and  in the absence of that being provided   it was entitled  
to close his account.
I note HSBC has said Mr B is welcome to apply for another business account if he wishes.  
But this will be considered  in line with the usual  checks it completes and it will be its decision  
on whether it would like to do so. 
Overall Im satisfied HSBC hasnt made an error or treated Mr B unfairly  when it decided  to 
ask him to complete the form.  And when the form wasnt completed, I dont think it was 
Ref: DRN19381533unfair it decided to close down his account.  So I wont  be asking it to take any further  action 
here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1938153