K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund her the premiums she paid for her 
card protection policy on or after 14 January 2005.  Mrs K is represented by a family 
member.
background
Mrs Ks representative says he was looking at her bank statements  and discovered  
premiums for a card protection  policy. He contacted Barclays because Mrs K didnt know 
anything about  the policy.
Barclays replied saying  the policy had been  sold in May 2000. It said itd refund the 
premiums Mrs K paid before 14 January 2005  together with interest of 8% simple a year. 
And itd cancel the policy. But it said it wouldnt refund  the premiums Mrs K paid on or after 
14 January 2005.  It said a redress scheme had been set up to cover  those premiums and 
Mrs K had missed the date for claiming  under the redress scheme.
Mrs Ks representative brought a complaint about the premiums  shed paid on or after 
14 January 2005  to this service.
An investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mrs Ks representative didnt 
agree. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
In 2013, the financial services  regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),  agreed  a 
redress scheme to compensate consumers, like Mrs K, with card protection  policies.
Broadly, the redress  scheme required businesses like Barclays  to return  premiums paid on 
or after 14 January  2005 to consumers who made a claim  under the scheme before a certain 
date. The redress scheme was approved by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by the scheme. Im satisfied Mrs Ks card protection 
policy was covered by the scheme.
I know Mrs Ks representative feels this is unfair. But this means  that rather than decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ks complaint, I can only look at 
whether the redress  scheme rules were  followed  and whether Mrs K has received what she 
was entitled to under those rules.
The redress  scheme  rules say Claim Forms  must  be received by the Scheme 
Administrators on or before the Bar Date.  If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the 
Claim Form will be rejected and the Scheme  Creditor [Mrs K in this case]  shall have no right 
to Redress.
So claims had to be made by the bar date which was 30 August 2014. Although there  was a 
later bar date of 28 February 2015  if one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the rules 
applied.
Ref: DRN19470932The redress  scheme  has provided its records for Mrs K. They show a claim form was sent to 
her on 19 February 2014. But a completed  claim form wasnt received and it seems Mrs Ks 
representative didnt  contact Barclays or the policy administrator until 2018  after the 
relevant bar dates.
Mrs Ks representative says she doesnt  remember  receiving the claim form. Its possible she 
didnt. But the redress scheme rules  simply say Any notice given under the Scheme by the 
Scheme Administrators  to any person shall be sufficiently served  by posting the same by 
first class  (or equivalent)  or airmail post to or leaving the same  at the address of such person 
last known to [the policy  administrator]. And I can see the redress  scheme  documentation  
was sent to the address  Mrs K has provided to this service. There  wasnt  a requirement  for 
the documentation to be received. And in fact, the rules  explicitly say The Bar Date will 
apply to all Scheme Creditors irrespective  of whether or not they receive actual  written  notice 
of the Scheme.
Having looked  at what happened  here, Im satisfied the redress  scheme rules were followed.  
I understand Mrs Ks representative is frustrated and feels the situation is unfair, particularly  
because English isnt her first language. But the redress scheme rules dont allow  for an 
exception to be made in Mrs Ks circumstances. And although Mrs Ks representative feels 
Barclays should have  done more to explain what was happening, the redress  scheme rules 
didnt require it to do more. As set out above,  Im required  to follow  those rules  when  
deciding her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1947093