K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the actions of Ageas  Insurance Limited and its decision to treat her 
motor insurance policy  as though it never  existed.  Mrs R is represented by her son, Mr T.
 
background
Mr T took out a policy on Mrs Rs behalf in July 2018. In August 2018 the insured vehicle 
was stolen and Mrs R made a claim on the policy. Ageas noted that although  she was the 
policy holder, Mr T was the cars  owner and registered keeper. 
When he bought  the policy online, Mr T said the car was owned  by Mrs Rs spouse. That 
was acceptable  to Ageas. But it said it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mrs R had it known 
that actually Mr T was the cars  owner and registered keeper. So it treated the policy  as 
though it had never existed and didnt deal with her claim. Ageas accepted  that Mr T hadnt 
deliberately misrepresented the situation. So it returned the money  hed paid for the policy. 
Mr Ts phone bill showed hed called Ageas straight after buying  the policy. He said during 
the 10-minute call, one of its advisors  told him the details hed given  online  were fine. Ageas 
couldnt find the call recording, and later on, it found the call hadnt been  recorded. But it said 
its records showed that Mr T was on hold for most of the time recorded  on his bill. It said he 
only spoke to an advisor for just over two minutes. It said the advisor hadnt accessed the 
policy file, which he would  have  had to do in order to review its details.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ts complaint. She thought  Ageas had shown that 
Mr T was asked  clear questions at the point of sale and gave incorrect responses. She said 
Ageas had shown  it wouldnt have offered cover  to Mrs R had it known the facts about the 
cars owner  and registered keeper. She thought it was reasonable for it to avoid the policy 
and not deal with the claim. She noted Ageas had returned the money  Mr T had paid for the 
policy, as it thought his misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless.
The investigator thought Ageas had shown that only a short  part of the call Mr T made  to it 
after buying  the policy was spent speaking to an advisor. She thought the evidence  that 
showed the file wasnt accessed by the advisor made it unlikely that he would have been 
able to discuss specific details of the policy with Mr T. Mr T insisted that in dealing with his 
complaint, Ageass advisor R told him shed listened to the call that it now said it didnt 
have. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed  to me for review.    
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill set out my view under the headings  the 
investigator used.
misrepresentation
In order to treat Mrs Rs policy as though it never existed,  Ageas has to show  that the 
provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
have been met. Mr T had a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation 
when he bought the policy.  But for there to be a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA,  
Ageas has to show that it asked clear questions to which Mr T gave inaccurate answers. It 
Ref: DRN18005992must also show that if hed given  the correct answers, it would  have acted differently - by not 
offering the policy to Mrs R at all, or by doing so on different terms.   
Mr T was asked  Whose name is on the registration document? and Who owns the car? I 
think those questions were clear. The response policy holder was an option. Mr T was able 
to select from a list that set out several other options, including spouse and other driver. 
He selected spouse  in answer to both questions, despite the fact that he was the cars  
owner and registered keeper. Mr T was also a named driver on the policy.  Ageas has shown 
that if Mr T had selected the correct answer - other driver - it wouldnt have offered a policy  
to Mrs R. So I think there was a qualifying misrepresentation in this case.
Mr T says he made a mistake. He says he didnt know  what  the word spouse meant and 
thought it meant next of kin. And he insists  that in any event, he called Ageas a few minutes 
after buying  the policy. He says he discussed  Mrs Rs no claims discount (NCD) and 
checked that the details  hed provided online were  acceptable. His recollection is that an 
advisor confirmed the policy was set up correctly. 
Mr T also queried why  as hed said elsewhere in the details he gave that Mrs R was a 
widow - Ageas didnt  pick up on the fact that her spouse couldnt have owned  the car. Ageas  
said its system  allows for a car to be owned by a deceased spouse. It says sometimes that 
will be correct,  until the legal processes following a death have  been  completed. Mr T said 
Mrs R had been a widow for many  years - but Ageas couldnt have known that was the case. 
At one point  in the online process, Mr T was asked to describe his relationship with 
Mrs R. The options list included son, which is what he selected. Mr T says that shows  he 
didnt intend to mislead Ageas. But Ageas hasnt said that Mr T intended to mislead  it. 
Ageas thinks Mr T was careless (rather than reckless)  and that his misrepresentation wasnt  
deliberate. It doesnt  have  to be deliberate or reckless in order for Ageas to avoid the policy.  
Ageas is entitled  to rely on Mr Ts carelessness if its underwriting  criteria  show that it 
wouldnt have offered Mrs R a policy based on the correct facts.  I think  it was reasonable for 
Ageas to conclude that Mr T was careless. And Ageas has provided  us with underwriting 
evidence to show that Mrs R would not have  been  offered a policy  had it known the facts.
call recording
Mr T says hes suspicious about  the missing  call recording. He says it would show that 
Ageas knew the details  hed provided,  yet didnt tell him there was an issue  with the policy.  
The record  from Mr Ts phone provider shows that he called  Ageas  just after he bought the 
policy and that the line was open for over 10 minutes. But the record doesnt show for how 
much of that time Mr T was speaking to an advisor.  Ageass  records show that he only 
spoke to an advisor for just over two minutes.  For the rest of the time he was on hold. Mr T 
says thats not likely. But consumers often complain  that theyre on hold for far longer.  
    
If Mr T only spoke to an advisor for just over two minutes, I dont think  there  would have 
been enough time to complete security checks,  discuss Mrs Rs NCD and also check  the 
details Mr T had entered online. Ageas says had the policy file been accessed, it would have 
left a footprint  on the system. Ageas  has shown  us evidence  that there isnt one. Mr T says 
the advisor may have been so confident  about the details he discussed with Mr T that he 
didnt need to check the file. In my opinion,  thats  not likely. 
Ref: DRN18005993In the absence of a recording, I have to decide whats most likely to have happened. Ive 
taken into account  Ageass  evidence of a timeline  for the call, plus the lack of a footprint on 
its system. I dont think Mr T can show its likely that Ageass advisor was able to confirm  
that the details  Mr T had entered online were acceptable. 
Mr T is unhappy  that Ageass records show the call he made to it was open for a slightly  
different amount of time to the record from his phone provider. I dont think  its possible to 
say what caused  the discrepancy, but I dont  think it makes  any difference  to the outcome. 
I dont think there would have been enough time after the call was answered to discuss all 
the issues, in line with Mr Ts recollection.   
Mr T says that in a call with advisor  R, who was dealing with his complaint, she told him that 
shed listened  to the missing call. Ive listened  to the call between Mr T and advisor  R. She 
said she hadnt yet listened to the call. She asked Mr R if he could recall who hed spoken to. 
He said he couldnt.  He said that was why she needed to listen  to the call. Towards the end 
of their conversation, Mr T referred  to the call again. Advisor R said shed be looking into it. 
So Mr Ts recollection of advisor  R saying  shed listened to the call is incorrect.  
As a result of Mrs Rs policy being  avoided, and her claim  not being dealt with, Mr T has 
found himself in a very difficult position  financially. And Mrs R will have to tell other insurers 
that she has had a policy set aside. I understand  why they may both think Ageass  decision 
is harsh, given its consequences. But I dont think theres any evidence  that Ageas acted 
unreasonably, so I cant uphold Mrs Rs complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1800599