K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect  a store card. 
The store card was originally taken out in a shop in 1997, but FICL has taken responsibility 
for the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs M took out in 1997.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because Mrs M has told us that she wasnt  in work  
when she was sold the PPI policy  so she wouldnt have been able to make use of the main 
parts of the policy,  but shed still be charged  the same premium. 
FICL has disagreed  with this, as theres a tick in the employment section of Mrs Ms store  
card application  selecting full time  work,  and that she said in a previous questionnaire  that 
she was employed  from 1994  to 1998. 
Weve spoken  to Mrs M about  this  she has told us that she doesnt know  why this was 
ticked  and thinks she made a mistake  with the dates. She also gave us information about 
her employment status over the years, including that she was made redundant in 1996, and 
had a baby shortly afterwards. She didnt return work until 1998. 
Ive thought about this, and Im satisfied  with the explanation  Mrs M has given, so I still think  
I should uphold  the complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN12509582If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when 
Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1250958