K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the decision  of Allianz Insurance  Plc to decline his claim for 
malicious damage made under  a landlords  insurance policy.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In 2018, Mr Gs property was raided by police,  and it was found that the tenant had been 
growing illegal drugs. The tenant had caused significant damage  to the property.
Allianz declined  Mr Gs claim  because it stated he had breached policy conditions relating to 
inspecting the property, and also relating to verifying  the tenants  bank  account  details. 
Unhappy with Allianzs stance, Mr G brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that Allianz  had considered the claim fairly.
Mr G disagreed with these findings.  His view is that Allianz has relied upon a technicality of 
the policy terms to decline  his claim. He has also suggested that the regularity of property 
inspections required by the policy terms is a breach of the tenants rights,  and that he cant  
dictate how his tenants pay him rent.
Mr G has questioned whether the policy terms relied  on by Allianz were highlighted to him by 
the seller of the policy. He also feels that Allianz  are indicating that he does  not have a 
legitimate claim.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy  includes cover for malicious  damage  arising from  tenants  using the property to 
cultivate illegal drugs. However, for this cover to apply, the policyholder  has to carry out 
certain actions. These include  carrying out inspections over particular time periods.  They  
also include  obtaining  and recording  details  of the tenants bank  account  details, and 
verifying them by receiving at least one payment from the same account.
Mr G has provided  Allianz with evidence that he received rental payments from the tenant 
directly into his bank account,  paid in as cash.  I acknowledge  Mr Gs comments  that he has 
made a genuine  claim for damage caused  by his tenant. However, according to the policy  
terms, for cover to apply  for malicious  damage caused by drug cultivation, Mr G would need 
to have recorded details of his tenants  bank account, and to have received a rental payment 
from this account.
Based on the evidence  provided, Mr G did not do this. I have considered  whether breaching 
these terms has been material to the loss suffered. On balance my view is that it has, in that 
holding the tenants bank  account details and receiving a rental  payment directly  from that 
account seems likely to have reduced the risk that this particular tenant would have caused 
the malicious damage claimed for.
Ref: DRN14306872I note Mr Gs comments about  these policy terms not having  been brought  to his attention. 
However, that relates to how the policy was sold to him. I understand that the policy was 
sold by an insurance  broker. If Mr G has concerns  about how the policy  was presented  to 
him, he will need to raise those concerns directly with the broker.
I appreciate that Mr G is likely to be disappointed with my provisional  findings. However, my 
current view is that Allianz  did not act unfairly  when declining the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Allianz accepted  my provisional findings.
Mr G did not provide any further submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the response to my provisional decision, I do not consider that I have 
sufficient reason to alter the findings  I reached in that decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1430687