K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains Everyday Lending  Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She says Everyday 
Lending failed  to complete reasonable and proportionate checks before it approved  her for a 
loan. She says she has lost out financially as a result;  as she has had to pay additional  
interest and charges.
background
Miss C was approved  for a loan in November 2016. The principal amount of the loan was 
£7,000. This was to be repaid over 36 monthly  instalments of £347.37. Miss C says at the 
time the loan was approved she was experiencing financial difficulties and couldnt afford  
these repayments.  She says had Everyday Lending completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks it wouldve  realised this too and decided not to lend to her.
Everyday Lending  responded  to Miss Cs complaint saying it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks. It says it took details of her income and expenditure, completed a 
credit search, as well as completing an affordability calculation. Part of this affordability  
calculation included reviewing Miss Cs bank statements.  It also noted that Miss C was using 
the loan to consolidate down some of her existing credit commitments. It says based on 
these assessments it deemed Miss C as having  sufficient  disposable  income to meet the 
loan repayments.  
I considered Miss Cs complaint and issued a provisional decision in June 2020. I asked for 
both Miss C and Everyday Lending  to consider this provisional decision and respond with 
any comments they had.
I set my provisional findings  out below:
I think  that there are two overarching questions that I need to consider in order  to 
fairly and reasonably determine Miss Cs complaint. These are:
1.Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks on 
Miss C, to satisfy itself that she was in a position  repay the loans in a 
sustainable way? 
a.If so, did it make  a fair decision  to lend?  
b.If not, would  those checks have shown that Miss C would have been 
able to do so?
2.Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ill deal with each  question in turn.
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss C, to 
satisfy itself that she was in a position  repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Everyday Lending  needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be 
able to understand if any lending was affordable to Miss C. The relevant rules dont 
set out which specific  checks  it has to complete for them  to be reasonable and 
proportionate. But relevant checks could  include things such  as a customers  income 
(over the full term of the loan),  and their outgoing  expenses. These checks should 
also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being provided 
Ref: DRN12359302including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the 
term. The checks also need to be borrower  focused.
There was also an obligation  on Everyday Lending to carefully consider all of the 
information it was presented  with before deciding to lend, and for it to make a fair 
decision. One of the things which Everyday Lending needed to consider included  the 
overall level of debt a borrower was already in and what effect any further credit 
would have on their future  circumstances.  
In relation to repaying the loan in a sustainable  way, the industry rules and guidance 
define this as being able to repay without undue difficulties. And in particular the 
borrower should be able to make  repayments  on time, while meeting other  
reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
Having carefully considered all of the information provided, Im not satisfied  Everyday 
Lending completed reasonable and proportionate checks before it lent to Miss C.
As explained above, Miss C was approved for the loan in November 2016. The 
principal amount of the loan was £7,000. This was to be repaid over 36 monthly 
instalments of £347.37. Miss C says at the time the loan was approved  she was 
experiencing financial difficulties and couldnt afford  these repayments.
Everyday Lending  says it completed  reasonable and proportionate checks. In this 
instance, it says it checked Miss Cs income,  asked for key expenditure, completed a 
credit search, and checked bank statements. 
In terms of the expenditure, Everyday Lending noted  Miss Cs key outgoings  and 
applied a 35% figure on her income to cover his other main living  expenses. It says it 
also took the details of Miss Cs existing credit commitments into account for the 
purposes of consolidation.  It says after doing all of this it demonstrated the loan was 
affordable to Miss C, as it left her with approximately £20 disposable income per 
month. And therefore,  its decision to lend was fair. 
Ive carefully considered  what Everyday Lending has said about the proportionality of 
these checks, but ultimately, I disagree  they were sufficient in this instance. As Ive 
mentioned above  it is not just enough for Everyday Lending to complete the checks, 
it needs to carefully  consider the information  it is provided before it decides to lend. 
Outside of asking  of income and key expenditure, Everyday Lending did complete a 
credit search and check bank statements from Miss C. And based on these checks,  I 
think information they showed shouldve  prompted  Everyday Lending to complete 
further checks.
Miss Cs credit file at the time shows that she had a number of existing credit 
commitments, which is consistent  with the fact she was consolidating down some of 
her existing credit. There are also numerous  short term / payday loans which are 
shown on the file. The credit file shows she had had issues with credit  in the past, 
including multiple  missed payments and arrears. It also showed  that at the time of the 
application Miss C had two current accounts.  One of which  appears to have had a 
£350 overdraft  capacity on it. 
I think this is important because when Miss C applied for the loan, she submitted 
bank statements from only one of her accounts.  The statements from this account  
Ref: DRN12359303show a relatively healthy  balance,  with some direct debits coming out  including  
Miss Cs mortgage. However, they also show a number of transfers into this account 
from Miss C  seemingly from a second  account. 
Considering what  Ive said above  about  Miss Cs credit file and the fact the 
statements she did provide showing regular transfers in, as well as knowing she had 
numerous credit commitments not reflected in the statements reviewed, I think it is 
reasonable that Everyday Lending  shouldve questioned the state  of Miss Cs second 
account further. Im satisfied as such that it shouldve probed further into Miss C 
finances in order  to get a reasonable understanding of what was going  on. And on 
this basis, I dont think Everyday Lending completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss C would have 
been able to sustainably repay the loan?
Ive been provided  a copy of the bank  statements  form Miss Cs sole account, and 
Ive carefully reviewed them. These statements show  Miss Cs income  being  
received which  is in line with the amount which was declared in her income  and 
expenditure check.
However, they also show Miss C was spending  a significant amount of money  on 
online gambling websites.  This is a very consistent pattern, with spending  on these 
websites being  daily. In some instances,  Miss C spends over £200 a day on these 
websites.
The statements  also show in the months  prior to applying for the loan with Everyday  
Lending that Miss C had taken a number of short-term loans which are used to fund 
her spending  on these websites. Without these short-term loans, Miss C would be 
significantly exceeding her balance, and would be entering into her overdraft by a 
considerable amount.
Considering this pattern of spending and also the need for further credit to maintain 
her spending  pattern,  Im satisfied it wouldve been clear  to Everyday Lending that 
Miss C wouldnt  have  been able to meet these  payments in a sustainable  way. 
Everyday Lending  has argued Miss C was consolidating  some of her existing  credits  
with this loan,  and as such she wouldve had more  disposable income, thereby 
making the loan affordable. Ive carefully considered this argument but ultimately, I 
disagree that it means the loan wouldve been  affordable to Miss C.
As Ive explained above Miss C was regularly  spending  significant amounts of 
income per month on online gambling  websites. This pattern was frequent,  with daily 
spending exceeding hundreds of pounds. Im satisfied that even  with the reduced 
outgoings any potential  consolidation  mayve given; Miss Cs ability  to repay  was in 
large part dependent on her success as a gambler and in my view this wasnt 
sustainable.
So, for these reasons  combined Im satisfied this loan was unsustainable  Miss C 
from the outset; and shouldnt have been lent to her. 
So, I think that Everyday  Lending now needs to put things right.
Ref: DRN12359304Both parties  confirmed they had no further comments to make on my provisional decision. 
So with that in mind Ive gone on to consider my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. As such Im 
satisfied this complaint  should be upheld for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
In particular Im satisfied this loan was unaffordable to Miss C, and Everyday Lending ought 
to have realised this had it completed  further  checks.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Everyday Lending limited to:
Refund all interest  and charges Miss C paid on the loan;
pay Miss C 8% simple interest  on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Cs credit file in relation the loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October  2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Everyday Lending  must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN1235930