K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003.  Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both, in case 
either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I dont think that this PPI policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application  had a section for PPI. It explained what  the policy was 
for and offered Mr and Mrs S the choice to take it out or turn it down. The option to take out 
PPI was chosen, and Mr and Mrs S selected  what type of cover they wanted. They then 
signed and submitted an application form specifically for PPI, which they applied  for 
separately to the mortgage itself. And I can see that the PPIs cost was set out separately  to 
the cost of the mortgage, rather than as something  that was necessarily  included.  All through 
the process, I cant see that Nationwide gave any indication that the PPI was anything other 
than an optional extra, and I havent  seen any evidence that it told Mr or Mrs S that it would 
help their mortgage application.  So I think that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs S aware  they 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
The application said that PPI was something  Nationwide recommended,  but only in a very 
general sense. I havent seen  any evidence  that it went through  Mr and Mrs Ss demands 
and needs or gave  them personalised, tailored advice about taking PPI. And from what  
I know about Nationwides sales process  at the time it didnt give personal recommendations 
about buying PPI as standard.  So I dont think Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs S to take out 
PPI. That means it didnt have to check the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, it just had 
to give them clear information about  it  so they could decide for themselves whether the 
PPI was suitable for them.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S were given clear  information about what sort of things the policy  
covered and what it would pay out in a claim, so they could compare  this to any existing 
benefits they had.
Ref: DRN12423882It looks like Mr and Mrs S were given  an outline of the PPIs cost,  and their mortgage offer 
also set out the cost.  However, it seems  Nationwide made a mistake:  the amount it gave  
appears to be twice what the policy  really cost. So the price  information wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think clearer  information wouldve made a 
difference. Mr and Mrs S say it would, as they say they both had exceptionally unusual sick 
pay, though they dont appear to have had any other significant cover in case  of losing a job.
The PPI paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ss work benefits, and its worth  bearing in mind  
that the mortgage was a very large,  long-term commitment, and their circumstances couldve 
changed over time. And Mr and Mrs S risked  losing their home if they didnt keep up their 
payments. But in any case, since  this was a non-advised sale, it was Mr and Mrs Ss 
responsibility to decide  if the PPI was suitable  for them,  rather  than Nationwides. Ultimately, 
it looks like Mr and Mrs S decided to take out the cover when they thought it cost twice as 
much as it really did. So if theyd been told it was actually half that price,  then I dont think its 
likely that wouldve put them  off taking out PPI. Further, it looks like the policy wouldve been 
affordable for Mr and Mrs S. So I dont think better information about the cost was likely to 
have made  a difference here.
Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt point  out all the main  things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But Mr and Mrs S doesnt  appear to have  been affected  by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1242388