K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank  UK Plcs (Barclaycard)  handling of a payment 
dispute he has. 
background 
Mr M placed an order with a supplier for two items on 22 April 2018,  and on the 
understanding that these two items would be despatched within two days.
Barclaycard debited Mr Ms credit card account (account)  with £190.25 on 23 April 2018, 
this being the total cost of the two items (inclusive of shipping) Mr M had ordered.
Mr M cancelled his order with the supplier  on 30 April 2018 as the two items hadnt been 
received (or despatched). He raised a payment dispute with Barclaycard at the same  time.
Despite having  cancelled his order, the supplier despatched the two items  on 1 May 2018.
Mr M took delivery of the two items on 3 May 2018 and still has them.
On 1 May 2018  Barclaycard refunded £190.25  back to Mr Ms account and attempted  a 
chargeback. This chargeback attempt was unsuccessful so Barclaycard  considered  Mr Ms 
payment dispute  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75) and 
agreed to uphold it.
Having upheld Mr Ms payment dispute under section 75 Barclaycard gave him the option  of 
either keeping  the goods  for a 50% refund from it, or retuning the goods to it for a 100% 
refund from it (plus 100% of the cost of making such a return).  Barclaycard  also paid Mr M 
£25 for any trouble and upset it might have caused by delaying,  amongst other  things, the 
logging of his complaint  by two to three weeks.
On 20 July 2018 Barclaycard debited Mr Ms account with £190.25, reversing the refund  of 
£190.25 it had made  on 1 May 2018.  This was one month after it had put its above offer to 
Mr M for his consideration.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that 
Barclaycards offer was, in all the circumstances, fair and reasonable  including the 
payment to Mr M of £25 for any trouble and upset  its actions or inactions might have caused.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusion. In summary he said Barclaycard had no 
right to debit his account with £190.25  on 23 April 2018, or to debit the same (to reverse  the 
£190.25 refund made on 1 May 2018) on 20 July 2018, because  the payment  was, and still 
is, in dispute.  He also said that if Barclaycard wants possession of the two items (in order 
that he can benefit from its offer of a 100% refund from it) it should arrange  collection of the 
items rather than him being put to the inconvenience of having to return  them.
The investigator considered Mr Ms response to his view but wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore the complaint  was passed to me for review and decision.
Ref: DRN11636302I issued a provisional decision on this case in April 2019. In summary I said:
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; 
relevant law and regulations, relevant  regulatory rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I would consider to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
One of the relevant laws applicable here is section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75). This provides protection for consumers for goods  or services 
bought using credit. 
However it should be remembered that this complaint is about Barclaycard, as 
Mr Ms credit card provider, not about the supplier.  So in considering  this complaint 
Ive considered not the actions of the supplier but whether Barclaycard, in all the 
circumstances, acted  fairly and reasonably taking into account the relevant law.
the first debit (posted to Mr Ms account  on 23 April 2018)
Mr M says he didnt  authorise this debit  to his credit card account. However I 
disagree. I appreciate  that Mr M might now be in dispute with the supplier (and 
Barclaycard) as to whether  this debit should stand against his account. But that isnt 
the same  as not authorising the debit in the first place. I accept that Mr M sought a 
refund of £195.25  on 1 May 2018  (from both the supplier and Barclaycard) but this 
was after he had authorised the debit to his account  on 22 April 2018. Therefore it 
follows that I cant fairly and reasonably say Barclaycard wasnt  entitled  to debit 
Mr Ms account on 23 April 2018 on the basis the debit  wasnt  authorised.
chargeback attempt
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a supplier, as Mr M 
does here,  Barclaycard (as the credit card issuer)  can attempt a chargeback. 
Generally we say its fair for a card issuer  to attempt a chargeback  - or to challenge 
a payment - if theres a reasonable  prospect of success. 
As I understand it Barclaycards chargeback was defended by the supplier on the 
grounds that at the time it was made  the goods  had been despatched  and received  
by Mr M. 
Now I appreciate that Mr Ms complaint, in part, is that he had cancelled the order  
with the supplier prior to it being despatched. But having received the response to its 
chargeback request that I understand Barclaycard did, I wouldnt have expected it to 
have done anything more in this respect.
section 75 claim
Under section 75, consumers who use certain types  of finance have an equal claim 
against the creditor for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation  by the supplier. 
But it doesnt apply  to a claim where it relates to a single item to which the supplier 
has attached a cash price  not exceeding £100.
Ref: DRN11636303I appreciate Mr M bought  two items totaling  £195.25 under one contract.
But the two items were  available  to buy separately  each  with a cash  price not 
exceeding £100. So I dont consider that section  75 applies to this transaction.  It was 
for two single items, each with a cash price  not exceeding £100. 
As Ive found that section 75 didnt apply  to this transaction, I dont think  that 
Barclaycard has acted unfairly or unreasonably  by not offering Mr M what he is 
seeking by way of compensation.
the second debit (posted to Mr Ms account on 20 July 2018)
Mr M says that Barclaycard had no right to make this debit which was posted to 
reverse the £190.25 refund made  on 1 May 2018.
But given that Im persuaded that the original debit  was authorised  by Mr M, and 
Barclaycard then attempted a chargeback and then made the offer that it did, Im 
satisfied it was entirely fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to post this debit to 
Mr Ms account.
Barclaycards handling  of Mr Ms payment dispute
I can see that Barclaycard  has paid Mr M £25 for any trouble and upset it might have 
caused him by delaying,  amongst other things, the logging of his complaint by two to 
three weeks. I can also see that Mr M says that certain members of Barclaycard staff 
were rude to him and he was required to spend more time on the phone than was 
reasonable. But having considered what both parties have said and submitted on this 
particular point, Im satisfied that £25 represents  an appropriate sum for Barclaycard 
to have paid in this respect  and it need  pay nothing further.
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed with my findings but Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard need  do nothing  to settle  this complaint.
I dont know if Barclaycards  offer,  made under cover of its letter dated 20 June  2018,  
is still available for acceptance  by Mr M. But if, on reflection, Mr M would now like to 
accept this offer, he should contact Barclaycard directly to see if its still prepared to 
stand by it.
Barclaycard responded to say that it accepted my provisional findings.
Mr M responded to say that he, albeit reluctantly, accepted my provisional findings.  However  
he added  that his complaint that Barclaycard had debited his account with 100% of the cost 
of the goods on 20 July 2018, when it was prepared  to refund 50% of this cost as a 
minimum hadnt been  reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted  my provisional findings  I see no reason to depart from 
them and I now confirm  them as final.
Ref: DRN11636304However, for the sake  of completeness, I would add like to reiterate that I dont think 
Barclaycard did anything wrong  in debiting Mr Ms account with 100% of the cost of the 
goods on 20 July 2018, to reverse the £190.25  refund  it made on 1 May 2018, rather than 
debiting 50% of the cost of the goods.
I accept that Barclaycard was prepared to refund, as a minimum, 50% of the cost of the 
goods purchased  by Mr M. But as Mr M didnt accept this offer I see no reason why 
Barclaycard should  have  done anything other than debit Mr Ms account with 100%  of the 
cost of the goods purchased on 20 July 2018 rather than 50% of the cost of the goods.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc need do nothing  to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1163630