K820x#14complaint
Miss B complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc recorded her claim against  her motor 
insurance policy as fault.
background
Miss Bs car was parked outside her house  at night when it was hit by another  car. She 
claimed under her policy for her cars  damage. But she later found  that AXA had 
recorded her claim as a fault claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), the 
insurance industry database of claims and incidents. She wanted  AXA to change this 
because the incident wasnt her fault, but they wouldnt do so.
The adjudicator  didnt recommend that her complaint  should be upheld. She thought that 
it wasnt unfair for AXA to record the claim in that way.
Miss B disagreed and so her case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Miss Bs car was hit by the other car, she reported it to the police. But neither the other 
car nor its driver could be traced. She claimed under  her policy  for the damage to her car. At 
that time the claim didnt make her premiums go up. So she said she didnt realise  that her 
claim would be recorded as a fault claim against  her. She said she only found out a few 
years later, when her partners car insurance  premium went  up when he added  her to his 
policy as a named  driver.  He was told this was because Miss B had a fault claim on the CUE  
database. 
Miss B was unhappy  about this as she didnt feel that she should  be made to be at fault. 
She didnt  want compensation but she wanted  AXA to change  the CUE record.
AXA explained to her why theyd recorded  her claim on CUE  as a fault claim. It wasnt  
because they thought  that shed been  at fault for the incident. It was only because theyd 
paid her claim but they couldnt recover their costs  from another  drivers insurer. It was 
common practice in the insurance industry  to describe and record  such a claim in that way. 
And they said that theyd told her, when she was making her claim,  that theyd treat it as a 
fault claim.  
As the adjudicator explained  to Miss B, fault doesnt necessarily mean that AXA or 
anyone think that Miss B was to blame for the accident. It is standard  insurance 
terminology used for when an insurer has paid a claim on a policy  but been unable  to 
recover their claim costs  from another drivers  insurer. And Ive seen AXAs file notes of 
their phone conversations with Miss B when she was making her claim, so I think  that they 
did explain  to her then why theyd treat her claim  as a fault claim. But in fact any claim, 
whether fault or non fault,  is still a claim. Any claim should be disclosed  to future insurers, 
and can be recorded  on CUE, and might  affect a persons future insurance premiums.  It is 
normal in the insurance industry for insurers to record claims on CUE, and we dont think 
that its unreasonable for them to do that. 
Ref: DRN18043692I can understand  why Miss B is upset about  this situation. AXA have  accepted that she 
wasnt to blame for the incident and through no fault of her own shes had to make  a claim 
and have it recorded on CUE. But nevertheless it was a claim against her policy,  and 
insurers can record claims as Ive explained above.  So I cant  say that AXA have done 
anything wrong. And as AXA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably, I dont ask them to do 
anything else.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, it is my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1804369