K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that CMC Markets  UK Plc closed his Contracts for Differences (CFD) 
without his knowledge and that he wasnt given an opportunity to fund his account  to prevent 
it from happening.
background
CMC Markets closed some of Mr Ms CFDs on 9 February 2018 due to insufficient margin. 
Mr M emailed them the next day, upon  receipt of his daily account  statement, asking  for 
these to be reversed  as he had the required funds to cover  any shortfall. Mr M then 
transferred the required amount to his account.
CMC Markets confirmed that it was entitled  to close Mr Ms positions and that it was his 
responsibility to ensure  there were  sufficient funds available to cover  his margin  
requirements. They therefore wouldnt reverse the closure of his positions.
Mr M complained about this. He said that he had deposited the funds within a working day 
and that clients  should be given some  time to add funds to an account  before positions are 
forcibly closed. He said he didnt receive any warning to fund the shortfall  before trading 
opened. He also added  that the market saw reversals and so these liquidations couldve 
been avoided.  
CMC Markets didnt change their position and so Mr M brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our adjudicators looked  in to the complaint but didnt uphold  it. He thought CMC 
Markets acted in line with the terms of the account  when  closing  Mr Ms positions. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the adjudicator and for largely the same reasons.
There doesnt seem to be a dispute  as to whether Mr Ms account fell below the required 
margin requirements. But rather, I understand Mr M argues that his positions were closed 
without his knowledge and that this happened  before  he was given the opportunity to fund 
his account to prevent it from happening.  Ive therefore considered whether CMC  Markets  
acted in line with the terms of the account when closing his positions,  and whether they did 
so fairly.
Term 13.1 of the account says:
You must ensure that for each  Account your Account Revaluation Amount is at all 
times above the applicable Close-Out  Level for your Account displayed  on our 
Platform. Where your Account Revaluation Amount is less than the applicable Close-
Out Level, our Platform  may automatically  initiate Account Close-Out in accordance  
with your Account  settings. Further details on the applicable Close-Out Level for your 
Account, and the methods  of Account Close-Out, can be found on our Platform.
Ref: DRN11303282I think the term clearly sets out when CMC Markets platform  will initiate an account  close 
out. And that it was for Mr M to ensure he had sufficient margin in his account to avoid this 
from happening. I also consider this was made  clear  to Mr M in the Risk Warning  Notice,  
which says:
It is your responsibility to monitor your Positions and your Account Revaluation 
Amount closely. Our Platform and/or our client management team  will attempt to 
notify you when  your Account Revaluation  Amount  reaches a specific level, although  
you should not rely on our Platform and/or our client management team  giving you 
this warning. To prevent  Account Close-Out,  you should keep an amount in your 
Account that allows sufficient headroom to keep your Positions open  in case  of 
sudden changes to the required Margin amount resulting from Price movements. It is 
important to note that an amount deposited into your Account (which appeared to be 
sufficient) can very quickly become insufficient,  due to rapidly  changing market 
conditions.
Im therefore  satisfied it was the responsibility  of Mr M to monitor his account  and to ensure 
he had sufficient funds  available. So although I understand Mr M says he wasnt given 
notice, or that the notice was sufficient,  the risk warning notice explains it shouldnt be relied 
upon. In any event, CMC Markets has shown that it did send Mr M a margin warning the day 
before the liquidations took place and again  after the first liquidation happened.  I think  these 
warnings gave Mr M sufficient notice as to what might  happen  if he didnt add further  funds 
to his account. It follows that I consider  CMC  Markets acted fairly  and in line with the terms 
of the account  when  closing his positions - as Mr Ms margin fell below the required level.
Im aware that Mr M thinks that there should be a grace  period  provided for clients to allow  
them to fund their account.  And that the closure of his positions couldve also been avoided  
as markets recovered later that day. While I appreciate his views on this, I think  the terms of 
the account that he agreed to clearly  explain how the platform works. And as CMC Markets 
has explained to Mr M, their platform is fully automated without any dealer intervention. So I 
dont think theyre obligated to do so or that it would be reasonable for me to ask them  to 
reverse the closure of his positions.
Its also worth noting that while the markets may have  recovered later that day this is only 
now known with the benefit of hindsight. And so it was possible that the markets  couldve 
likewise have gone further against  Mr M, thus causing him greater losses. The only way of 
ensuring an account can ride out volatility in the market  is therefore to ensure there is 
significantly more cash in the account  than the margin  required.  That way, if there  was a 
significant drop followed by a rebound in the market then the platform  wouldnt initiate an 
account close out.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
think CMC  Markets acted wrongly  by closing his positions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Ref: DRN11303283Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1130328