K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out towards  the end of 2001. Mr and Mrs P say National Westminster Bank PLC 
(NatWest) mis-sold  them the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs P say that the policy was something  they thought they had to take to get their 
mortgage. I dont  doubt the honesty  of their recollections. But the event  in question did take 
place over 15 years ago. They havent told us much about what happened at the time. And it 
doesnt look like they were able to remember that much when they spoke to NatWest about 
their complaint. In fact, in a letter Mr and Mrs P sent to NatWest in May 2015, they said that 
they had forgotten that they had taken PPI. This isnt that surprising. Memories can struggle 
over the sort of timeframe involved in this case.  Yet this is something  I have  to consider 
when weighing  up whats likely to have happened.
NatWest has provided us with Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application form. Included  in this 
form on page 11 was a section called Mortgage Repayments Protector. In that section sat 
the question Do you want Mortgage  Repayments Protector? And the answer to that 
question in their application form is yes. 
Its possible that this is the answer  because Mr and Mrs P were  given the impression that 
they had to take MPPI to get their mortgage.  But its also possible that they said yes 
because they wanted PPI. 
I dont know which of these scenarios  represents  what actually happened because  I wasnt 
part of the conversation between the parties. However, when events are in dispute,  I have  to 
base my decision on what I think is more  likely  to have happened given the information 
available. Theres nothing  in the paperwork to suggest that Mr and Mrs P had to take MPPI. 
The way in which the question in the mortgage  application form on MPPI was asked 
suggests they could have  said no. And as they did go on to sign Direct Debit mandates for 
the policy on two different  occasions, I think its likely that they were aware that the policy 
was separate  to the mortgage.
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded that theres  the evidence  to suggest that Mr and Mrs P 
were told they had to take MPPI to get their mortgage given the paperwork from the time and 
the extent of their recollections. 
NatWest says that it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs P and Im inclined to agree  
with that as theres nothing persuasive to suggest  it did  though it may be helpful to explain 
that this isnt crucial  to the outcome in this complaint  as I think  the policy would have been a 
suitable recommendation to have made given what I know about their circumstances at the 
time of sale.
Ref: DRN11725622As a result, NatWest wasnt responsible for making  sure the policy  was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs P. Instead, it had to make  sure they got the information they needed  to decide 
that for themselves. So thats  what Ive looked  at.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P about the policy  wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover 
available to them - so it would have been  useful for them if something went wrong. Whats 
more, they were taking  on a significant  and long-term financial commitment secured  against 
their home. The mortgage repayments would have been important repayments to maintain in 
the event they found themselves out of or unable to work. And as the policy  would have 
helped them to keep  up with their repayments  over a reasonably significant period of time 
instead of having to rely on other means,  which they could have  used elsewhere,  I think  the 
policy would have been helpful  especially  as it also included  cover in the event of 
unemployment.
I know Mr and Mrs P have, more recently, complained  about  the way in which the policys 
benefit was split between them. They say they were told at the time of sale that the benefit 
would be split on a 50/50 basis. But when Mrs P made a claim towards  the end of 2015,  it 
was closer to 25% because, as a joint policy, each policyholder was entitled to a proportion 
of the benefit in keeping  with their gross  income over a fixed  period of time. So 25% 
happened to reflect that.
Theres nothing especially compelling from the time of sale to suggest  that Mr and Mrs P 
were told that the policys monthly benefit would  be split on a 50/50  basis. And having looked 
at the terms and conditions relevant to the time of sale, I can see that the benefit was split in 
the way Ive described above. Its not entirely  clear  whether NatWest made this apparent at 
the time of sale either. But I dont think its crucial to the outcome in this complaint even if 
NatWest didnt. 
Splitting the policys  benefit in a way that reflects the gross income of each policyholder isnt, 
in my view,  inherently inappropriate. After all, a policyholder who earns more than the other 
is more likely to leave  a larger  the shortfall. In any event, there isnt any contemporaneous 
evidence to persuade me that Mr and Mrs P were or would have been unhappy with a 
benefit split that reflected their respective earnings, such that they would have done 
something different.  And while I can understand why a claim for roughly 25% of the benefit 
may have  come as a surprise,  I find it hard to argue  that their reaction to a claim  made 
roughly 14 years after they were sold the policy  is indicative  of what  they were  told at the 
very outset.
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded better  information about the MPPI would have led 
Mr and Mrs P to make a different decision and not take the policy.  
I have thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their MPPI  and whether  
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
Ref: DRN11725623NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ps MPPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest works this out and, based on 
what weve seen, it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission was less than half the 
cost of the MPPI.  As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  about  the commission 
 so I dont think  NatWest treated them unfairly. And this means it doesnt need to pay 
Mr and Mrs P back any of the commission they paid on the MPPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1172562