K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably refused to pay his 
claim under his travel policy for having  to cancel a cruise when his partner became ill and 
required hospitalisation.
References to UKI include all its agents.
background 
Mr C booked a cruise.  He had travel insurance  for himself and his partner through  his bank 
account. He phoned up UKI to make sure his travel policy  was in order  and he disclosed 
certain medical conditions  he and his partner had. 
However his partner suffered a burst ulcer just before they were  due to depart, so they had 
to cancel their trip. Mr C made a claim to UKI, who said Mr C hadnt told it about  one 
medication she was taking and therefore it was refusing to pay the claim.
Mr C complained but UKI wouldnt change its stance. So he brought  his complaint to us. The 
adjudicator thought UKI should  have re-written the policy on the terms it would have offered 
had Mr C disclosed his partner was taking this medication. If that would have meant a higher 
premium was due to be paid then it should  pay the claim proportionately.
UKI disagreed so Mr Cs complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2019  and I said the following:
The key to this complaint is what was said in the phone call between Mr C and UKI 
before he booked the cruise. 
Ive listened carefully  to the call recording. Mr C clearly disclosed his partners 
previous breast cancer and present back pain. He also disclosed she took 
meloxicam, which is a painkiller for her back pain.  He just simply didnt disclose she 
also took omeprazole,  which  is a stomach  protector,  very routinely prescribed with 
anti-inflammatory pain relief.
However, the call recording clearly shows that Mr C (and indeed his partner, as she 
can be heard in the background) didnt want cover for either her breast cancer  or her 
back pain. The breast cancer was in remission and it appears they both thought little 
of the back pain.
UKIs reason for refusing to pay this claim  is also confused. Its clear from UKIs file 
had Mr C and his partner  wanted cover for the back pain a further premium amount 
would have been payable. But the call recording is also clear  they thought  little of the 
back pain and so didnt want cover for it. It also wasnt the case, that they didnt  want  
to pay any extra premium,  as that was never  discussed in the call, it was simply that 
they thought the back pain was an irrelevant medical condition. 
Notwithstanding this, UKI initially  refused  to pay the claim because Mr C and his 
partner failed to disclose a medication  namely  omeprazole. Thats  what  it said in its 
final response letter. But that doesnt make  any sense,  as its assumed the 
omeprazole was prescribed only because meloxicam was prescribed for back pain, 
Ref: DRN18804842which Mr C and his partner specifically  didnt want cover for as the call recording 
shows. So the fact Mr C forgot to also mention omeprazole is completely irrelevant 
on UKIs stance.  And its certainly not the case in my opinion  that it was now a non-
disclosure issue as UKI said it was. Further, I also consider Mr C simply forgot  to 
mention this medication, as in the call recording he was reading from a list of repeat 
prescriptions for his partner, or so it seems.
UKI in its own internal  communications  admits that it never  once said the reason  for 
the refusal to pay the claim was due to the relationship between omeprazole  being 
prescribed to prevent ulcers, and the burst ulcer causing the claim to occur.  I think 
thats very significant.
The medical certificate completed for UKI by a doctor in the hospital trust that treated 
Mr Cs partner says the following: 
9(a) Has this condition,  or anything directly  related  to it, been suffered 
before?
The doctor from the health trust completing  the form ticked yes but he failed to give 
further details  in the box then requiring more information. And crucially UKI didnt go 
back to this doctor and ask him to give the further  details.
In the next question, it says the following:
10(a) At any time during the last 12 months before the trip was booked  or the 
insurance policy was taken out with us (date shown above, has your patient 
been prescribed any medication for this Condition or any directly related 
condition (as above)?
This time the doctor completes the box requiring more  information saying:
PT has been prescribed long- term prophylactic omeprazole for many  years 
as she takes meloxicam  for chronic back pain. 
 
But theres no evidence  that the ulcer suffered by Mr Cs partner was caused  by 
taking meloxicam. Ulcers can be caused  by a virus, and indeed  by other reasons too 
and actually burst for even more reasons. Further, the fact she was prescribed 
omeprazole for such lengthy  time does indicate  to me she had significant protection  
from developing an ulcer  as well.  We asked  UKI to find out more information  but 
they were unable to do so.
Therefore, I think UKIs reason for refusing to pay this claim on the basis it was never 
disclosed Mr Cs partner was taking omeprazole is wrong for two reasons. First,  
given she didnt want back  pain covered  and omeprazole  was taken because of a 
back pain medication,  its totally irrelevant Mr C forget to mention she was prescribed 
this. Secondly,  theres little or no evidence the ulcer was caused  by meloxicam  and 
more importantly by omeprazole failing to protect her adequately  in any event.
So I dont  think UKI has adequately  linked  the cause of the claim to her back pain 
medication for which no cover was required.  Therefore,  I dont think  its reasonable it 
refused to pay this claim for the reasons  it did.
Ref: DRN18804843I also dont think its right that UKI should  pay this claim  proportionally, as the 
adjudicator suggested. This is because I dont think theres enough evidence to show 
the link between the medication  for back pain caused the ulcer. And the outcome of 
paying proportionate benefit  assumes  that link.
So I consider UKI should now pay this claim, adding interest from the date of the 
claim.
This caused Mr C and his partner some distress and inconvenience so I think  it pay 
Mr C £150 compensation.
UKI responded saying they accepted my PD, as did Mr C.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As theres  no additional information to change  the outcome of my provisional decision,  I see 
no reason to change  it. Therefore Im upholding this complaint on the same terms.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr Cs claim, adding 8% simple interest from the date he made his claim to the 
date it now reimburses him.*
Pay Mr C the sum of £150  compensation.
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1880484