K821x#15complaint
Miss C says that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ), lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
background
QQ agreed five short  term loans and one refinance loan for Miss C from March 2015  until 
March 2017. All the loans have been  repaid. Ive set out a summary of the lending below.
Loan 
numberDateLoan amount 
(£)Number of 
instalments 
dueHighest  monthly 
repayment due 
1   18/3/2015 200 1 £256.24
2 15/4/2016 100 1  £132
3 10/6/2016 550 3  £686.40
4  9/11/2016 350 3 £448
5 3/2/2017 300 2 £367.20
5a 
(refinance) 12/3/2017 2502  £686.40  (with Loan 5)
Miss C said that she had provided  a bank statement to QQ before Loan  1 so it would have 
been aware of her other  borrowing.
QQ said it had implemented an affordability  assessment that was consistent with the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA)  Handbook. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 3, 5 and 5a should be upheld and explained why. 
QQ disagreed and responded to say, in summary,  that it had conducted an appropriate  and 
proportionate affordability assessment. QQ said that Miss C had a sound repayment history  
with it. It also said there  were breaks in the lending and Miss C hadnt  shown signs  of 
financial difficulty. QQ said that it had validated Miss Cs declared other monthly credit 
commitments to ensure  any short term credit  was included in this category. With regard to its 
loans with a higher final repayment, it said that Miss C might have needed to save  
disposable income from a prior month to make the final repayment.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to QQ on 12 July 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I explained that when QQ lent to Miss C the regulator was the FCA and relevant regulations 
and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC contained 
guidance for lenders about  responsible lending. 
I noted that QQ had said that its assessment was carried out in line with the FCA Handbook. 
But with regard to QQs assessments after 1 March 2015, I said that this service  had 
addressed this specific point by QQ in previous decisions. I reminded QQ of the FCA 
guidance on how complaints were to be dealt with promptly  and fairly (my emphasis) by 
Ref: DRN15037142businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which said that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So I said my decision would focus  on the specifics of Miss Cs complaint and what both 
parties had said about  this.
I explained that QQ needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Miss C could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and Miss Cs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing might  signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I said that there might even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
QQ was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
I said that the loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defined sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
Ref: DRN15037143having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Cs complaint.
QQ had done  a number of checks before it lent to Miss C. It asked her for details of her 
income and expenditure. Miss Cs declared  income  was £2,762  until Loan 4 when it 
increased to £4,211. Miss C had declared her monthly expenditure at £1,675  for all the loans 
which included other monthly credit  commitments of £250. QQ said that it had validated 
Miss Cs declared other credit commitments  and I referred to these in my decision.  QQ also 
checked Miss Cs employment  and housing status.  From the information QQ gathered, 
Id noted that Miss C was employed and paid rent. 
QQ had also checked Miss Cs credit file before  agreeing to the loans. QQ hadnt provided 
us with the results  of its credit checks. Miss C had provided her credit  report to us. 
I said that the repayment of £256.24  that Miss C needed to make on Loan 1 was relatively 
modest compared to the income of £2,762  that shed declared  to QQ. Id noted  that Miss C 
had told QQ that her monthly expenditure was £1,675 which included monthly credit 
commitments of £250. Miss C said that shed provided a bank  statement to QQ before 
Loan 1 and it would have  seen on this her other credit commitments. Id noted  that QQ had 
checked Miss Cs other credit commitments  using its credit  report data and noted that these 
amounted to £631. I could see from Miss Cs own credit report  that shed  taken out one loan 
in the month  before  Loan 1 for £560. So I thought QQ was aware of Miss Cs other short 
term credit  when it lent her Loan  1 and that the loan repayment was sustainably within what 
QQs checks showed Miss Cs disposable  income to be. So I didnt think  QQ was wrong to 
give Loan 1 to Miss C.
I noted that there was a gap of around a year between Miss C repaying Loan 1 and asking  to 
borrow again. I thought it was reasonable for QQ to consider  that gap in lending  as an 
indication that Miss C wasnt reliant on its loans. So Loan 2 was the first loan in a new chain 
of lending.
The repayment amount for Loan  2 was almost half that for Loan 1 and was relatively  modest 
compared to the income that Miss C declared to QQ. So given Miss Cs repayment  amount, 
what was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and her history  with the lender, I 
didnt think it wouldve been  proportionate for QQ to ask her for the amount of information  
that would  have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss C provided before Loan 2 or the 
information QQ shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think QQ was wrong to give Loan 2 to Miss C.
Miss Cs third loan with QQ had increased  significantly  to £550. But the loan was to be 
repaid over three monthly repayments with the first two monthly repayments of £61.60  and 
£136.40 and a final monthly  repayment  of £686.40.  QQ had told us that Miss C might have 
needed to save  disposable income from the earlier months to make  the final repayment. But 
I didnt think this absolved  QQ of its obligation  to assess the risk to Miss C and make a fair 
decision. 
Ref: DRN15037144Miss Cs declared income was still £2,762.  I thought Miss Cs final repayment on Loan 3 was 
a significant proportion of her income.  So, I thought it might have been proportionate at this 
time for QQ to have gathered some further information  from Miss C about  her other short  
term borrowing. Had it done so, I said it was likely that QQ wouldve learnt that Miss C had 
borrowed one other short term loan for £600  in the month before Loan  3 which would  have 
been repayable at the same time as Loan 3. I had seen this on Miss Cs bank statement and 
credit report.  Id noted that QQs own credit checks  showed other credit commitments of 
£676. Nevertheless, I could see that the highest  repayment on Loan  3 was sustainably  within  
what QQs checks showed  Miss Cs disposable income to be. 
Given Miss Cs repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for QQ to 
ask her for the amount  of information  that would have been needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And I couldnt see there was anything in the information Miss C had provided or the 
information QQ shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think QQ was wrong to give Loan 3 to Miss C.
Loan 4 was taken out around ten weeks after Loan 3 was repaid. The loan amount of £350 
was significantly lower  than the Loan  3 amount. And Miss Cs declared monthly income  had 
substantially increased  to £4,211, but her declared expenditure remained at £1,675. The 
loan was repayable over three monthly  repayments with a highest repayment of £448. So I 
could see that the highest  repayment  on Loan 4 was sustainably within what QQs checks  
showed Miss Cs disposable income  to be. In view of Miss Cs substantially  increased 
income, I thought  that QQs checks were proportionate here. 
 
And given  Miss Cs repayment  amounts,  what  was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for QQ to 
ask her for the amount  of information  that would have been needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And I couldnt see there was anything in the information Miss C provided or the information  
QQ shouldve been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what she was saying.  So I didnt  think QQ was wrong to give Loan 4 to Miss C.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of QQs lending history with Miss C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QQ should  reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Cs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 5. I said this because:
Miss C had taken out a loan of £100 the previous April and she was now asking for a 
loan of £300. She hadnt made any inroads  into her debt over this time and paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to QQ over an extended period. 
Loan 5 was provided within nine days of settling Loan 4 and the loan amount was 
only £50 less. I thought the repeated borrowing  of a similar amount so soon after 
Ref: DRN15037145Loan 4 was repaid should  have put QQ on notice that Miss C might be experiencing 
some financial  pressures.  
QQ ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Miss C was having to borrow 
further to cover  the hole that repaying his previous loan had left in her finances.  
The chain of lending  of almost ten months  since Loan 2 didnt  reflect the intended  
use of high-cost short-term credit.
Although there were  some limited gaps  from Loan 2 onwards between loans being 
repaid and a new loan being granted, including one of around ten weeks  before 
Loan 4, I didnt think it would have been reasonable for QQ to conclude these gaps 
were any indication that Miss Cs finances had moved on from whatever situation  had 
required her previous loans. 
I thought that Miss C had lost out because QQ continued to provide borrowing from Loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the length of time that Miss C had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Miss Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so had 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
Id considered some of the points QQ made in response to the adjudicators  view above.  Id 
also noted that QQ had said that Miss C had a sound repayment history. But Id thought  QQ 
would (or ought  to) know from previous decisions that this service considered there would be 
times when  the pattern of lending alone was enough to indicate  that a consumer was likely 
to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending continue.  So it 
followed that successful repayment of a loan didnt automatically mean it was repaid 
sustainably.
I also said that when  a consumer borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time, it was 
most likely that the loans  werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash 
flow problems. As QQ knew, the FCA made  it clear  in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Miss C or QQ my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  trading 
as QuickQuid, to:
Ref: DRN15037146Refund any interest and charges applied to Loans 5 and 5a 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
All entries about Loans 5 and 5a should  be removed from Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Miss C responded  to my provisional decision  to say that she accepted it.
QQ responded by saying  again that it had carried out adequate  and proportionate  checks.  It 
said that there was no absolute figure  for the length of gap between  loans that signified a 
dependency on credit  or a lack of dependency. QQ also said that the principal amounts 
borrowed had fluctuated which signified a lack of dependency  on its product. It said that 
Miss Cs repayment history doesnt  show that she was experiencing financial difficulties and 
she didnt tell it that she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note what QQ says about the gaps in lending. I dont think  there  is an absolute length  of 
gap between loans  which signifies a dependency  on credit or otherwise. But I think from the 
gaps in lending  from Loan 2 onwards that it wouldnt have been reasonable for QQ to 
conclude that any of these were  an indication that Miss Cs finances had moved on from 
whatever situation  had required  her previous loans.
I acknowledge that the amounts Miss C borrowed fluctuated, but I note that her last two 
loans were higher  than her first two loans. And I think that shed  borrowed in a way that 
suggested a long term dependence  on expensive short term credit. And although the 
amounts Miss C borrowed varied,  I still think QQ acted unfairly by allowing Miss C to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
I note that QQ said that Miss Cs repayment history  didnt show  financial difficulties. But as 
QQ will be aware, this service doesnt accept that a borrower repaying a loan early or on 
time means  it was automatically repaid sustainably. And as Id said in my provisional 
decision, I think QQ will (or ought to) know from previous decisions that this service 
considers there will be times  when  the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate that a 
consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or will otherwise be harmed should relending 
continue.
I note that QQ said that Miss C requested a loan extension during her final loan. I think that 
loan extension might  have suggested  to QQ that Miss C might  be experiencing some 
financial pressures.  
QQ also says that Miss C didnt tell it that she was experiencing financial difficulties. I 
appreciate that had she done so, its unlikely QQ wouldve continued lending  to her. But that 
doesnt change  the fact that QQ was required by its regulator  to lend responsibly. And it was 
Ref: DRN15037147required to check whether any loans it issued could  be sustainably repaid by the borrower 
over the term of the loan. So even if Miss C didnt  tell QQ about any financial difficulties at 
the time,  it was still required  to act responsibly  and I dont think  it did for the reasons Ive 
given in my provisional  decision. 
Overall, QQ hasnt  said anything that persuades me that the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision was unreasonable or incorrect. So my final decision is the same as I
outlined in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund any interest and charges applied to Loans 5 and 5a; 
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
3.All entries about Loans 5 and 5a should  be removed from Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1503714