K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) refused to let him 
reject a car.
background
In June 2018 Mr P bought a new car at a cost of some £68,000 which  was part funded by a 
hire purchase agreement.  When it was taken back for its 1,200 mile service some  six weeks 
after purchase the garage told him it would have  to be fully checked  as it was one of the 
models which had been caught  up in a sand storm prior to delivery. He was without the car 
for seven  or possibly  ten weeks, but was provided with a courtesy car for a couple of those  
weeks.
Mr P was told that the pre delivery inspection (PDI) hadnt been carried  out by the garage  
which had supplied the car to the dealer. He says the dealer  told him it was unaware that 
this was one of the cars affected by the sandstorm.  Mr P was told BMW  would exchange the 
car once  he put the original alloy wheels back. He also cancelled the transfer of a 
personalised registration plate. 
BMWFS then told Mr P that the PDI had been  carried out and as no faults  had been  found 
there was no basis for a rejection.  His complaint  was rejected and so he brought the matter  
to this service. The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended 
it be upheld.
Mr P supplied evidence  that the full PDI checks hadnt been  carried  out and the quality  
enhancement check hadnt been  done.  He said he was concerned that some long term 
damage may be caused by sand in the engine or other key components. Later,  in December 
2018 the car developed  a fault with it going into limp mode.  It was repaired, but this added to 
Mr Ps concerns about what  further  issues might  arise.  
BMWFS said that as gesture of goodwill it had offered Mr P a watch, two payments of 
£725.48 had been supressed for the length  of time the vehicle was being repaired (totalling 
£1450.96). It also included some  performance  alloy wheels worth £4373.48 and a service 
worth £301.56. It said that these  had been  offered on the basis Mr P agreed to keep  the car.
The investigator said a reasonable  person wouldn't expect a car and every component  to 
last forever. But there  was a reasonable expectation that the components of a car function 
without any significant  issue or problem for a reasonable period of time. For there to be 
concerns about  key components of an expensive new car was unreasonable.  She believed 
Mr P wouldnt have  bought the car had he know it had been affected  by the sandstorm and 
so she recommended BMWFS allow him to reject it.
BMWFS didnt agree and said no faults had been  found. It added that BMW  had only written 
off some  of the cars which had been  caught up in the sandstorm  and if the car had had any 
faults it wouldnt have  been released for sale. It said Mr P had accepted around £6,000 
worth of goodwill  contributions and if it had to take the car back it would be deducting 
£4,373.48 for the cost of alloy wheels.
Mr P said he had been told he had to return the car with standard wheels  even thought the 
dealer had supplied the performance ones.  He had sold the originals £1,400  and that meant 
he had to buy them back at a premium of £250. He also said he had paid GAP insurance. 
Ref: DRN13800532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS Horse is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have a number  of concerns about this complaint.  The incident of the cars being  damaged  
by the sandstorm was widely reported and I gather BMW had to write off a number of cars. 
However, those which  werent written  off were supposed to be subjected to a check before 
being released for sale to ensure they were  of satisfactory quality. 
It seems  this check wasnt carried out on Mr Ps car. It was subject to the standard PDI, but 
when it was taken  in for the 1,200  mile service some six weeks  after purchase  the diagnostic  
read out said the car wasnt to be released  for sale. I find that rather puzzling that this car 
could have slipped thought the net. It also means that Mr P wasnt able to make  an informed 
decision about whether to buy a car which had been  caught  up in the sandstorm
The check  was carried out when it was taken back and I gather part of the delay was a wait 
for vacuum  cleaner to be delivered to allow the dealer to remove  any sand from the car. 
Although the business says there wasnt a fault with it, I can see why Mr P would have 
concerns about  buying an expensive car which  might  be affected by sand at some point later 
on. This was the view taken by the dealer  at the time Mr P first complained, but it wasnt 
supported by BMW. The car did suffer problems which required repairs in the first six months 
and this only adds  to the suspicion that it may encounter further issue in the future. 
On balance I think Mr P was misled when  he bought  the car since  he wasnt  told it was part 
of the consignment which had been  affected  by the sandstorm  and as such I consider he 
should be allowed  to reject it. As far as the alloy wheels are concerned  I am satisfied that Mr 
P bought  those  separately and that he suffered £250 loss for which  he should be 
compensated. I have  see nothing  that allows me to conclude that BMWFS  supplied  the 
Ref: DRN13800533wheels.The GAP insurance was part of the original  price and so I dont consider BMWFS 
need take any further action on that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr P and refund any payment made by him since 
the investigator issued  her view on 30 January 2019
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of the payment until the 
date of settlement
refund  10% of repayments for the period the car was with the dealer (apart from the 
two months for which the payments were refunded)  for loss of enjoyment
pay £300 for any trouble and upset and inconvenience  caused
refund  the consequential costs incurred by having to change  the private  plate and 
£250 for his loss on the alloy wheels
cover  the insurance cancelation fee, (providing Mr P can provide T&C of his 
insurance policy showing cancellation  fee amount)
remove any adverse information  from Mr P's credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1380053