K821x#15complaint
Mr X complains that Santander UK Plc declined his claim  under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 about work done  on his car.
background
In May 2015  Mr X took his car to a garage to have some work  done. He paid for most  of the 
work with his Santander credit card. He was not satisfied with the result, and so he brought  a 
section 75 claim to Santander, alleging breach of contract and misrepresentation by the 
garage.
Santander did not uphold Mr Xs claim, saying that he had not provided enough evidence.  
So he brought this complaint to our Service, and provided further evidence.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  in part. She said that not all of Mr Xs claim was 
covered by section  75, since some of the work he was complaining about had not been paid 
for with credit  provided  by Santander.  But she thought that Santander  should  refund Mr X for 
some of the work, with interest  on the refunds. She also recommended that Santander  pay 
him compensation for mishandling his claim.
Neither party was satisfied with this decision,  and so this complaint was referred  to me. 
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 is a law which,  where  it applies,  makes the provider of credit (in this case, 
Santander) jointly liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier where  
the suppliers goods  and services are paid for  in whole or in part  with the credit provided. 
It applies to credit card purchases. But it does not apply  to a claim so far as the claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier  has attached a cash price  not exceeding 
£100.
The garage sent Mr X three invoices for the work it did on his car. One of these invoices,  for 
£1,433.53, was paid for with a debit  card.  For this reason, our investigator thought  that 
section 75 did not apply to the items  listed on that invoice. However, that would only be right 
if each invoice was the subject of a separate contract. If there was only one contract to do all 
the work  on the car, then it wouldnt  matter  if some of the items were  not paid for using a 
credit card. If some  of the work was paid for using a Santander credit card, then Santander 
would still be liable  for all of the work  including the work covered by this invoice.
I think that the parts which were ordered  as a result  of the MoT test were a new order and a 
new contract. However, I accept that all of the other items were ordered together,  and so 
they were the subject  of one contract, even though  more than one invoice  was generated. 
Ref: DRN15480532I think the explanation for the two invoices is that one was for the speakers  and related  items 
(dated February  2016, for £1,481),  and one was for everything else (June  2015,  £1,433). 
There was a significant delay in the garage getting the speakers from their supplier, so it 
makes sense that in the meantime the garage billed Mr X for the other  work it had done,  
instead of waiting for the speakers to be supplied. That doesnt  mean  there was more  than 
one contract for the (non-MoT related) work. So although the June 2015 invoice was paid 
with a debit card, I think that both invoices  were still covered by section 75.
As a result of the MoT test, some  parts were replaced, such  as the track  rod ends. All of 
these items,  and the test itself, cost less than £100  each. I dont think  they can all be treated  
as a single  item just because they were  supplied on the same  occasion or for the same 
reason. A single contract  is not the same  as a single item. So section 75 does not apply to 
these items.
Two of the items on the June 2015 invoice, a radio and a fire extinguisher, each cost less 
than £100. I cannot say that Santander  was wrong  to decline Mr Xs claim about those items.
Most of the items on the 2016 invoice also cost less than that amount, including each of the 
speakers. The items which exceed  £100 (and which have been complained about) are the 
alternator, the battery, the rust-prevention treatment, the audio head unit, and (when VAT is 
included) the loom.
However, I think the sound system  could fairly be described as a single unit, even  though it 
is made up of a number  of separately-invoiced  components. Nobody would buy just one 
speaker (except  to replace  a damaged one).  Mr X was seeking to upgrade  his entire  sound  
system to premium  sound, so it was necessary to buy six speakers,  an amplifier and the 
loom. So I think these  items, together with the audio  head unit, which he was told was a 
necessary part of the upgrade, can be treated as one item, in the same way that a pair of 
shoes is one item and not two.
the sound system
Mr X says he subsequently learned that buying a new audio head  unit had not been 
necessary, since the new speakers and amplifier would have worked just as well with the 
original head unit. So he says there was a misrepresentation  by the garage which induced 
him to buy a new unit he did not need.
I am minded to uphold this part of Mr Xs complaint, because  I have  seen clear  evidence 
from the manufacturer that changing  the head  unit was not necessary (see the emails  dated 
17 and 18 January 2017). So the cost of the new unit (£192 including  VAT) should  be 
refunded, with interest at eight per cent a year from 29 February 2016 to the date of 
settlement.
I think that if Mr X had known the truth, he would still have bought the speakers and the 
amplifier, so I wont refund those items just because he was mis-sold the head unit. But he 
also complains that the speakers were not of the kind he was promised,  and the amplifier 
was not new.
Since it was agreed  that the speakers and the loom would not be new but would be second-
hand, I do not think it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that it was agreed that the 
amplifier would be new.
Ref: DRN15480533I agree  that the speakers do not have the logo of the brand  Mr X says he wanted. But I have 
seen no evidence pre-dating the invoice that Mr X had asked for or been promised speakers 
of that particular brand. Even  if he had, Santander has provided  evidence showing that four 
of the six speakers do have premium sound, so I think Mr X has still been  provided with four 
speakers which  meet  his needs.
However, Santanders evidence does not show that the two rear speakers had premium  
sound capability, and I think it is likely that if they did then the product documentation would 
say so. On balance, I think that the two rear speakers were  misrepresented. I think  that if 
Mr X had known that the rear speakers did not meet his needs, he would not have bought 
them, but he would still have bought the other speakers because the driver and any front 
seat passenger  would still benefit  from having premium sound. So I propose to uphold  this 
part of the complaint to the extent  that I will order the cost of the two rear speakers (£233.54  
including VAT) to be refunded, with interest at eight  per cent a year from 29 February 2016 
to the date of settlement.
the battery and other items retained  by the garage
Mr Xs complaint about the battery  is not about  the new battery, but about  the garages  
failure to return the old battery to him. I havent  seen  evidence  that the return  of the battery  
was an express term of his contract with the garage, nor do I think  it was an implied term. 
I also cannot see how Mr X has been  disadvantaged by not retaining a faulty  old battery. I do 
not uphold that aspect  of this complaint.
The garage has already offered to let Mr X collect the other items which he wants back.  So 
I cannot see that there is any breach  of contract there, or that any loss has been caused to 
him.
the alternator
The complaint about the replacement alternator  is, firstly, that it is not a Jaguar brand part. 
The only evidence of that is a report by a third party mechanic, who Mr X seeks  to rely on as 
an expert witness. However, Santander and our investigator both had concerns  about  his 
expert credentials. So do I, for the same  reasons  as theirs. There  is no evidence  that the 
alternator is not working properly. The car passed  its MoT in July 2015;  there  were  no 
advisories about  the alternator. It passed  with no advisories in November 2016.  So Im sure 
the alternator is working as it should.
Secondly, Mr X asked  if the original  alternator could be reconditioned,  instead of having to 
be replaced. Instead of answering that question  directly, the garage replied to say that it had 
found him a brand new alternator  for £177, instead  of the replacement  they had originally  
offered him for £530. (It was however invoiced for £207.61 plus VAT.) Mr X accepted that 
offer, but he complains  that the replacement alternator which  was fitted  was not new but was 
an old reconditioned one. I dont think there is clear evidence that that is the case (and even 
the mechanic  Mr X instructed to write  a report about  the car was uncertain whether the 
replacement was new or reconditioned).  I have also not seen evidence of how much it would 
have cost Mr X to have  the [original] alternator  reconditioned, so I dont know what  the price 
difference was. I therefore could not assess what the cost to Mr X has been,  even if I upheld 
his complaint.
Ref: DRN15480534the rust-prevention treatment
The car was treated with a rust-prevention product. Mr X criticises the quality of this work, as 
he says that some areas were not treated  properly  or at all, it was sprayed over some  rusty 
areas without removing the rust first, and some of the treatment  has not lasted.
The garage has said that the treatment  is not intended to be used  on moving parts,  because  
it hardens when it sets, and some  of the areas Mr X complains were not treated are moving  
parts.
I dont think it is possible to fairly assess whether the treatment was applied properly or 
whether it has lasted as long as it should,  because the car has since been taken to another 
garage where it was treated again.  This process  will have destroyed  the evidence  of the 
original coating.
However, I do agree that the original  coating has been applied to rusty  areas,  because  there  
are clear  photos of this. But I do not agree that this means that the treatment was incorrectly  
applied. I have read the manufacturers own information about its product (supplied to me by 
Mr X), and this is what  it says:
Remove any flaking rust and apply the [brand name] Rust convertor to the 
remaining rust making sure the edges are coated to ensure  a good seal. The 
complex organic chelat  (sic) base and epoxy resin  converts rust into a stable organic  
iron complex.
So the product  is supposed to be used on rusty areas. I will not uphold this part of this 
complaint.
other issues
As well as the invoiced items, Mr X has also claimed damages for some other matters. He 
criticises the garages decision to store his car outdoors 1 This led to water damage. He 
also complains about the condition the car was in when it was returned to him: it had 
scratches on the car which  he says were not there  when he dropped  it off, it had a flat tyre, 
and it was generally untidy. He says that the garage staff must have driven his car because  
there is less fuel in it and the mileage has increased. He says he had asked for the tyre to be 
fixed when he ordered the other works,  but this was not done.
storage
I have seen a text message from the garage  to Mr X, dated 24 August  2015,  which  says:
We have had to put your car in storage as we do not have the room in the workshop 
to store vehicles.
I have also seen an email  from the garage to Mr X, dated  15 February 2016, which says:
Can you please confirm  today  when you will be collecting your car and paying the 
balance of what you owe. If you have a problem  picking up the car please give us 
authority to take the remaining balance  of your invoice  and we will put the car back  
into storage  as we will not leave a convertible  outside.
1 In response  to a correction by Mr X, I have omitted part of this sentence.
Ref: DRN15480535I have not seen a reply  to either  of these messages, other than a reply which  did not mention 
storage. Nor have  I seen any request by Mr X for the car to be stored,  or to be stored in a 
particular way. Nor does  the garage  appear  to have asked for, or received, any 
consideration for storing  the car. Indeed, the garage  didnt want to store the car; it wanted 
Mr X to collect  it at once. So I cannot  accept that there was a contract  for the storage of the 
vehicle. Nor do I think that it could  have been an implied term of the original contract that the 
garage would store the car for nine months  (from  26 May 2015 to 29 February 2016).
the damaged tyre
It is not in dispute  that the tyre had a nail in it, as when the car passed  its MoT test in July 
2015, the nail was shown  as an advisory.  There is no evidence  that Mr X asked for the tyre 
to be replaced, and he has not been charged for a new tyre. But it does seem plausible  to 
me that he would have  asked for this to be repaired or changed, either  as part of the original 
contract or as part of the second contract as a repair identified  by the MoT test. (It doesnt 
matter which, since the MoT invoice seems to have been paid with his credit card too.) 
I therefore accept  that there has been  a breach  of contract.
This has not caused  financial loss to Mr X, since he wasnt charged for the tyre, and 
whatever he paid someone  else to change the tyre is only what the garage would have 
charged him if it had changed it. (It seems  likely  that a new tyre would have cost more  than 
£100.) But it must have  inconvenienced him, as it meant he had to get someone else to do it. 
So I propose to award him £100  for that.
other damage
I have seen photos of the car taken  before  and after it was at the garage. I can see that 
there were a number  of scratches on the car after it was collected from the garage.  I cant 
see those scratches in the earlier photos. But the later photos are extreme close  ups of small 
scratches, whereas  the earlier photos  were  taken at a distance.  So its quite possible that the 
scratches could have been there  already, and are just not visible  in the early  pictures. I dont  
know when those scratches occurred, and so I make no finding about them. It follows  that 
I do not uphold  this part of the complaint.
I have also seen before and after photos of the interior  of the car, which  show  stains which 
were not there before.  I cant  rule out the possibility that this was caused on some  other  
occasion, but on the balance of probability  it seems  likely that this happened while the car 
was in the garage. I am minded to uphold this complaint,  but I do not know  if any money was 
spent on having  the car cleaned, and I would need to see proof of what (if anything)  was 
spent on this, such as invoices. I think the same  thing about the rear view mirror. So I invite 
Mr X to provide evidence  about this.
misuse of the car
Mr X alleges  that the garage staff drove his car, not just for the purpose of carrying out the 
MoT test but for their own purposes. His basis for this allegation  is an inference he has 
drawn from the increased mileage, and the decreased fuel level,  between when he left the 
car at the garage and when he collected it nine months later.
Ref: DRN15480536There is evidence of how much fuel was in the car six days before he took the car to the 
garage, but that does  not mean there  was a similar amount of fuel in the car six days  later. 
So I disregard that evidence.
The evidence of the mileage is in the MoT certificates. For now,  I will refer to three  of them:
Date Mileage
November 2013 86,275
October 2014 86,485
July 2015 87,200
Taking the difference between the 2013  and 2014  mileages (210),  and then dividing this 
number by the number of months between those  tests  (11), gives  an average of about 19 
miles driven each month.
Taking the difference between the 2014  and 2015  mileages, and then dividing by the 
number of months between October and July, gives an average  of about 79 miles a month. 
However, that is not enough to support an inference that the garage staff drove the car for 
their own use. Firstly,  the car was only left with the garage in May 2015,  so almost all of the 
period between the 2014 and 2015  MoT tests was when Mr X had the car. Secondly, the 
mileage recorded  at the MoT test in November 2012 was 85,219, which means  that Mr X 
drove the car an average  of 88 miles a month  between 2012 and 2013. So I dont accept  
that driving 79 miles a month is out of character for Mr X.
There is therefore no evidence for this allegation.
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties  I intend  to order  Santander UK Plc to pay Mr X:
£425.54 (being  a refund for the two rear speakers and the audio head unit), with 
simple interest on that sum at eight  per cent a year from 29 February 2016 to the 
date of settlement;
£100 for his inconvenience (for not changing  the damaged tyre).
responses to my provisional  findings
Santander accepted my provisional decision.  Mr X did not. He made detailed submissions, 
but in brief summary he said:
The garage had broken the law by charging VAT when it was not registered  for VAT. 
(That is outside  the scope of section 75 and so I cant  consider it.)
I should still consider  his claim about the radio  and the fire extinguisher.
He would not have bought the sound  system if he had known it was not the particular 
brand he wanted.
Upgrading the rear speakers was essential  in order  to ensure the best sound  for all 
occupants of the vehicle.
The new battery  was faulty, and was not a Jaguar battery. If the old battery had been 
kept, he could  have had it reconditioned. So he had been disadvantaged by the old 
Ref: DRN15480537battery being discarded. He disagreed with my finding that this was not a breach of 
contract.
The mechanic  he had instructed was a suitably qualified expert and I should accept 
his evidence.
The alternator was not new but reconditioned.  I should infer that from the corrosion 
evident in the photograph of it taken by the mechanic. Also the mechanic had clearly  
stated in his report  that the alternator had been reconditioned.
The mechanics photos  clearly showed  that the rust-prevention  treatment had been 
applied sparsely,  and that rust was still present.
Mr X thought I had said in my provisional  decision that the rust-prevention treatment 
had been applied to moving  parts. (I said nothing of the kind. I said the opposite.  
I invite him to read it again.)
The garage had not applied the rust-prevention treatment to the wheel arches, and 
neither had the second garage which had treated the car again, so this evidence still 
existed (and was evident in the photos).
Some of the rusty patches had not been treated.
Far from proving that there was no agreement to store the car, the February 2016 
email proved that there was such an agreement.  This conclusion was supported  by 
some other emails dated  between December 2015 and March 2016.
Because the tyre was not repaired, Mr Xs mechanic had to drive the car from the 
garage back to his own garage with the tyre still unrepaired, and this journey caused 
the tyres  condition  to deteriorate further. The further damage meant that the tyre had 
to be replaced, instead of repaired, and this was more expensive than the repair 
would have been. The cost was over £200.
The car had been  delivered to the garage  in immaculate condition.
He had already  provided an invoice from another garage  for work done on the interior 
of the car, at a total cost of £2,460.
The fuel tank had been full when  the car was delivered to the garage.  He did not 
accept my mileage calculations. The garage had driven  his car for hundreds of miles.
I took the unusual step of writing a second provisional decision, which read as follows.
my further  provisional  findings
The radio and the fire extinguisher each cost less than £100 and so they are outside the 
scope of section  75. Therefore I cannot consider  these items.
As I said in my provisional decision,  there is no evidence pre-dating the invoice to 
corroborate that Mr X had asked for or been promised speakers of the particular brand he 
now says he required. Therefore I do not uphold his claim for misrepresentation.
I accept that Mr X wanted to upgrade the rear speakers, and that this did not happen. That 
would not only affect the sound quality for any passengers in the rear, but on further 
reflection, I accept that this might affect the sound quality for the driver and front seat 
passenger too. That is because  the sound  from the rear speakers might  still be audible  to 
them, and spoil the enjoyment of the upgraded speakers in the front. I dont think it would be 
proportionate to refund the cost of the entire sound system, because the problem can still be 
fixed by upgrading  the rear speakers  its not necessary to replace everything. But I now 
propose to award  compensation  for Mr Xs inconvenience, for needing to have this extra 
work done. I think £200 is fair.
Ref: DRN15480538I now understand why Mr X wanted the old battery back. But I still havent seen anything  to 
corroborate that it was ever agreed that it would be returned to him, so I dont agree that 
there was a breach of contract  here.  I also cant see that Mr X has complained  about  the 
new battery to Santander, so I cant say that Santander has done anything wrong by failing 
to refund him for it. Nor have I seen  evidence that the new battery was faulty.
The concerns I have about the mechanic instructed by Mr X are that when he was asked to 
provide evidence of his qualifications, he was unable to provide any. He is not affiliated with 
any regulatory body.  The post code of his work  premises doesnt  match  the address; it is for 
another place  a third of a mile away.  The business has no internet presence.  So I dont think  
it would  be safe to rely on his conclusions, although I have still taken into account his photos.
Even if I took a different  view about  that, I still could not accept  that the mechanic clearly 
identified that the alternator had been  reconditioned.  What  he actually said was this:
Without the purchase  receipt  it is difficult to advise whether the present Alternator 
fitted to the vehicle is a new, reconditioned  or second hand alternator although it 
does appear  to be reconditioned. (See photograph)
If the mechanic could  not conclude that the photo  proved that the alternator was 
reconditioned, I cannot see a basis  on which I could  fairly go further than he did  if 
I accepted that he was an expert   and conclude that it was.
The photo  was taken nearly a year after the alternator was replaced,  so I cant  know  whether 
the corrosion in the photo was present all along, or had developed since.
I accept that the other photos  show that rust was still present after the rust-prevention 
treatment was applied.  But removing all rust is not part of that process. As I explained  in my 
provisional decision, any flaking rust is removed and then the treatment  goes on top of any 
remaining rust.
I have looked  at all the photos,  but I can find no photos of the wheel arches to show that the 
treatment was not applied there. I have however read a report by a third party  (not the 
mechanic I have mentioned already), dated  3 May 2016, which  says that the rear arches 
have been treated, but the front arches have not.
Some versions of the rust-prevention material are transparent,  so this makes it difficult  to 
assess whether the areas photographed were  treated or not. However, the manufacturers 
website says (on its FAQs page) that when the product is sprayed over rust and left to dry, 
the rust is converted  into a black stable organic compound.2 The rust in the photos is not 
black, but is still the usual colour  of rust. That would not be the case if the treatment had 
been applied  to those areas. Nor would  new rust develop afterwards, if those areas  had 
been treated.  Not all of the rusty patches  photographed are on moving parts;  some  are in 
places I would expect  to be treated.
So this evidence has changed my mind. I am now of the view that the rust-prevention 
treatment was not properly applied to all of the areas where  it should  have  been.  Mr X was 
charged £325 plus VAT for the treatment. But because it wasnt  done  properly, he had to 
have it done again by a second garage. I have  seen the invoice, and he was charged £400  
plus £80 VAT. Since he wouldnt have  had to spend this money  but for the inadequate 
2 See https://rejel.com/dinitrol-faqs/
Ref: DRN15480539service by the first garage  which I agree is a breach of contract  I think that Santander  
should refund him £480, with interest.
Turning to the storage of the car, I have  seen a text message from the garage to Mr X, dated 
21 August 2015,  saying  that they had been  unable to find rear speakers with premium  
sound. It went on to say: Perhaps the best option now would be for you to collect your car 
and bring it back once we are in the position to provide a quote and obtain the required 
parts.
That didnt happen, initially because  Mr X was overseas  and not due to return  until the 
following month, and thereafter because the garage  couldnt  find rear speakers with 
premium sound.
That text message was followed  three days later by the text message I have quoted already, 
saying that the car would be put in storage, instead  of being kept in the workshop. That text 
message certainly  did not create  a contract for the storage of the car, however. (Before 
I explain why, I will summarise what happened  next.)
In January 2016, Mr X repeatedly chased  the garage for an update on progress, in texts  and 
emails. He offered  to find the speakers himself. On 11 February  2016  the garage  sent Mr X 
a text message  saying  that the car was ready  to be picked up. The invoice for the sound  
system bears  the same  date. There were  two more texts over the next two days, asking 
Mr X to collect  his car. Then there was the email on 15 February, which  I have already 
quoted. It clearly does  say that the car would be put back into storage. It also says that the 
car will not be left outside. However,  there  is nothing in that email, or in any of the other 
correspondence, which suggests that there was a contract to store the car.
I will explain  why I think that the text and the email did not create  a contract. Firstly,  a 
contract is an agreement which is reached  by one party making an offer and the other  party 
accepting the offer. As I said in my provisional findings, there was no reply from Mr X 
amounting, in my judgement, to an acceptance. I agree that he consented to the car 
remaining with the garage,  but that is not the same thing as agreeing that it should  be kept in 
storage instead  of in the workshop, or indoors instead of outdoors.  Indeed there was no 
communication from Mr X about  how or where the car should be kept.  Secondly, the garage 
didnt want to keep  the car; it did so under sufferance. It wanted Mr X to collect the car. 
Thirdly, even if there had been an agreement between the parties, an agreement  is still only 
a contract if there is consideration   that is, if the party providing the service is paid for that 
service, not including any payment that is owed  to it already for another service (such as the 
work that was done on the car). There is nothing  in any of the correspondence about that. 
Nor was Mr X invoiced  for storage. So even if there  was an agreement (and I am not 
persuaded that there was), there  was certainly  not a contractual  agreement. It follows that 
section 75 does not apply to the storage.
I have thought about whether the storage could still come within  the scope of section 75 by 
virtue of section 49 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Section 49 makes it an implied term of 
a contract to supply a service that the service must be performed with reasonable care and 
skill. So I have considered whether storing  the car outside might be a contravention of that 
implied term. Although  the primary service was to perform work  on the car, as invoiced,  
I think there must also be included in that service (by implication if not expressly) a term that 
the car will be properly  looked after while it is in the garages custody  even though Mr X 
wasnt charged separately for this. So it is arguable that the garage may have  breached this 
term. If so, then section 75 would make Santander  liable  for that.
Ref: DRN154805310All of the work done by the garage, other than upgrading the sound system, was completed  
and invoiced  within two months of Mr X leaving his car at the garage.  It was certainly 
foreseeable that the garage  would have to look after the car for that long. So I have no 
hesitation in finding that it was a term of Mr Xs contract for the garage  to keep the car for 
that much  time, even  if a specific date was not set for the completion  of the work. If I could 
safely conclude that the damage  happened during that period, then I could find that there 
was a breach  of that term.
However, when Mr X left his car at the garage  in May 2015, the garage couldnt  possibly 
have foreseen  that it would be obliged to keep  it until the following February. I dont think it 
could ever have been  intended or agreed  by the garage that they would keep custody of the 
car for a period  as long as that, or indefinitely. So I dont think it would be reasonable of me 
to find that there was a contractual term to keep  the car for that long.  In August, as I have 
described, the garage suggested that Mr X collect the car until it found  the new speakers. 
Interpreting the contract as generously as possible,  I might be able to say that it included a 
term to keep the car until Mr X returned from overseas in September,  when he would be able 
to collect it. But I dont  think it is possible or fair to construe the contract more broadly  than 
that. I certainly dont  think there was a contract to look after the car until whenever the 
speakers were found, which  turned  out to be February. So I will not uphold Mr Xs complaint 
about the manner in which the car was stored, or any damage  which  resulted from that.
To be clear, I am not defending the manner  in which the garage  kept the car, or excusing  the 
damage to the car. I am only saying that Santander  is not liable for it.
I have seen an invoice  from another garage for repairs done to the interior  of the car 
(including the rear view mirror), dated 11 November 2016. That included  replacing the hood 
and headlining,  which had been  damaged by damp, but I think that was the result  of the car 
being stored outside, which Santander  is not liable  for. But the rest of the damage was inside 
the car, and that is unlikely to be the result of how the car was stored.  I am still of the view 
that the original  garage is probably responsible for it. The cost of these repairs,  including 
VAT, was £900. So I think Santander  should have to pay for that.
I accept that the tyre had to be replaced,  rather than just repaired,  but that might have been 
the case already,  before  Mr Xs mechanic  collected  the car. I have no way of knowing that 
the garage could  have  repaired the tyre, or that its failure to do so was the reason that the 
tyre had to be replaced instead of being repaired.  So I havent changed my mind about my 
earlier conclusion that this has caused no financial loss to Mr X.
I havent changed my mind about  the before and after photographs  of the exterior of the 
car.
I have seen nothing  to change my mind about  my mileage calculations, or to doubt them. So 
I still dont uphold this part of this complaint.
my provisional decision
My second  provisional  decision  is that I am currently minded to uphold  this complaint and to 
award greater compensation than before. Subject to any further representations I receive 
from the parties by the date below, I intend  to order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr X:
Ref: DRN154805311£425.54 (being  a refund for the two rear speakers and the audio head unit), with 
simple interest on that sum at eight  per cent a year from 29 February 2016 to the 
date of settlement;
£480 (being  a refund for the second rust-prevention  treatment),  with simple interest 
on that sum at eight  per cent a year from 20 June 2016 to the date of settlement;
£900 (being  a refund for some of the interior repairs), with simple interest on that sum 
at eight per cent a year from 30 November 2016  to the date of settlement;
£300 for his inconvenience (for not changing  the damaged tyre and not upgrading the 
rear speakers).
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mr X did not accept my decision. He provided  new witness  statements from three  people:  
the author  of the report hed commissioned; a mechanic at another garage who had 
repainted his car in October 2014;  and the managing director of a third garage, the one 
which had carried out the MoT test in October 2014. They each describe the car being in 
immaculate condition in 2014 or May 2015.  Mr X invited me to look at the photos  again. The 
first mechanic also wrote more about  the alternator.
Mr X also wrote 15 pages of submissions. I wont repeat  them all here. He suggested that 
charging VAT is a service and could therefore be within the scope of section 75. 
Alternatively, he argued that by committing fraud  the garage had vitiated its contract with 
him. He said hed had an oral contract  for the storage  of his car (evidenced by the 
subsequent text messages), and that collecting the car in February 2016 was not an 
unreasonable delay on his part, because  it had taken the garage that long to install  
speakers. Mr X also complained that his old audio head unit had never  been  returned to him.
Santander agreed with most of my decision, but it did not accept that it should have to pay 
for the interior damage. It said that there  was no contract to store  the car inside (which is 
precisely what I said in both of my provisional  decisions, but Santander appears to have 
interpreted them as saying the opposite). Santander went  on to say that Mr X had a duty to 
mitigate his losses, and by leaving his car at the garage for so long he failed to do that. 
Santander suggested that this contributed to the damage to the car. Santander also argued 
that the photographs  show  very limited damage, making it difficult  to assess the extent of the 
damage. For that reason  Santander disputed that the damage had occurred while  the car 
was at the garage.
my findings
I said in my last decision that the £900 of interior damage for which I think  Santander is liable 
was not the result of how the car was stored, or of how long it was stored for. I think  it was 
caused by garage  staff while  they were working  inside the car. As evidence of this, I have 
relied not only on the photos, but also on the invoice for the repair  of the interior.  So I havent  
changed my mind about that issue.
I dont think that the text messages are persuasive evidence that there was an oral contract 
to store  the car until February 2016.  I remain of the view that there was no such contract. 
Without a contract, there can be no breach  of contract to which  section 75 could apply  and 
make Santander liable for any damage arising  from the way the car was stored.
(From the above  conclusions, it follows that I need  not make  any finding about  whether it 
was reasonable  of Mr X to leave his car with the garage until February 2016.)
Ref: DRN154805312I dont think that charging VAT is a contractual service in its own right.  Rather, it is part of the 
price charged for providing a contractual service.  The price is of course a term of the 
contract, but I dont agree that charging  VAT which  (allegedly)  shouldnt  be charged is a 
breach of contract for which Santander  could properly be held liable under section 75. I think 
this is a matter for HMRC or the courts, not for this Service.
I have reconsidered  the evidence about the alternator in the light of the two new witness 
statements by the mechanic who wrote  the report about it. I now accept that the mechanic  is 
suitably qualified. I note that as well as what he wrote about the alternator in his original 
report (which I quoted above) and in his new statement,  his photograph of the alternator (in a 
separate document annexed  to the report)  was captioned replaced alternator  (over painted 
corrosion suggests  reconditioned). So although  his evidence at the time was that it was 
difficult to say whether  the alternator  was reconditioned or new,  I accept  that he was still 
leaning  albeit  cautiously  towards the conclusion  that it was reconditioned, and that he 
said so at the time. In his new statement he has explained that while he was trying  to be 
careful not to seem  to be giving a definitive  opinion, which  would not have been justified by 
what he had seen, his opinion then (and now) was that it probably had been reconditioned. 
So although  I still think that the evidence  overall  is unclear, on the balance of probabilities  
I now accept that the alternator probably  was reconditioned.
That does not mean that the alternator  does not work properly. The MoT test results  suggest 
that it does. I accept that it is not a Jaguar part, but that does not appear to have  impaired 
the parts  performance. 
Mr X had not insisted  on a new alternator  he had been prepared to have the old alternator 
reconditioned (although  that would still have been  a Jaguar brand component). So I think  he 
would have accepted a reconditioned alternator if he had been offered one, provided that it 
was a Jaguar  part. But I am not satisfied  that he would have accepted  a reconditioned, non-
Jaguar alternator  if he had known thats  what it was. He was told he was getting  a new part, 
so I think that was a misrepresentation,  and Santander would be liable for that (even though 
the part was £300 cheaper than the one which was first offered to him).
However, as I said in my first decision, I do not know how much it would have cost Mr X to 
have his original  alternator reconditioned,  so I dont know what  the price difference was. 
I therefore cannot assess what the financial cost to Mr X has been,  and indeed  there might 
not be any. I dont  think  it is necessary for the alternator to be replaced  again. So all I can do 
is award Mr X some nominal compensation for his distress  caused by discovering that he 
had not been sold what he had been  told he was buying. I will award him £50 for that.
Having read the new witness  statements, I am not persuaded that it is entirely plausible  that 
the witnesses  would  still remember the precise  condition of a car they saw four and a half or 
five years earlier, especially when  they are all mechanics  who do work on cars and so are 
used to seeing many cars and customers all the time. I have looked  again at the photos, but 
I still think the same thing as I thought when I wrote  my first decision.  The earlier photos 
were taken at a distance, so its possible that the scratches could have been there already, 
and are just not visible in the early pictures. I dont know when the scratches occurred, and 
so I make no finding about  them.  I regret  that this will come as a disappointment to Mr X.
Finally, Mr X has a working  audio head  unit in his car, so while I appreciate  that he wants  his 
old one back,  I think the impact  on him of not getting it back is minimal. I wont order  its 
Ref: DRN154805313return, but I recommend that it is returned  to him if it is still available.  (If it is not available  
then there  is nothing more  to be done  about it.)
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr X:
£425.54 (being  a refund for the two rear speakers and the audio head unit), with 
simple interest on that sum at eight  per cent a year from 29 February 2016 to the 
date of settlement;
£480 (being  a refund for the second rust-prevention  treatment),  with simple interest 
on that sum at eight  per cent a year from 20 June 2016 to the date of settlement;
£900 (being  a refund for some of the interior repairs), with simple interest on that sum 
at eight per cent a year from 30 November 2016  to the date of settlement;
£350 for his inconvenience (for not changing  the damaged tyre, not upgrading the 
rear speakers, and mis-selling the replacement alternator).
I recommend that Mr Xs old audio  head  unit is returned to him if possible, but I make no 
orders about it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  But my final decision  concludes this Services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1548053