K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, is unhappy  that EC Insurance Company Limited (ECIC) wont cover  
Fees for Intervention under its contractors combined insurance  policy. 
background
P has the benefit  of a contractors combined  insurance policy  which includes cover for 
employers liability.
An incident  occurred in December 2016  and the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) began 
investigating P in respect of possible breaches  of health and safety law.
The HSE subsequently concluded that there  had been material breaches of health and 
safety law and, in March 2018, P received a notice of contravention. P was also told it would 
be charged a Fee for Intervention (FFI) for the time HSE spent investigating the incident. 
The total invoice  P received for FFI was around £14,000.
At the end of October  2018 P received notice of HSEs intention to prosecute  P and one of 
its directors personally. P made a claim on the policy to cover the cost of FFI, which  was 
declined by ECIC as it said the FFI wasnt covered under the policy. P didnt  agree  so 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ps complaint; he didnt think ECIC had done anything  wrong.  
P requested that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why. 
The policy can cover:
 Ps legal  costs and expenses in connection with the defence of criminal proceedings 
brought for alleged offences  under the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 (the Act); 
and 
 prosecution costs awarded against  P (or a director of P) in connection with the 
defence of criminal  proceedings brought for alleged offences under  the Act.
However, I dont think ECIC  has acted  unfairly  in this particular complaint by concluding that 
the FFI isnt covered under the policy. 
Im satisfied the FFI isnt a cost P has incurred in defence of criminal  proceedings. Im also 
satisfied that ECIC has reasonably concluded  that the FFI doesnt amount to prosecution  
costs awarded against P.
The FFI is meant to cover the amount of time the inspector spends identifying  the breach (or 
breaches) of health and safety legislation, helping to put things right, investigating and  
possibly - taking enforcement action. Even  if enforcement  action is taken by the HSE  that 
doesnt automatically mean that the HSE will seek to prosecute  it can choose to take other 
action depending on whats happened.  And because the HSE is able to recover  the costs  it 
incurs for the work it does  in relation  to material breaches of health  and safety law  
Ref: DRN14174162including the cost of site visits  and other  associated work - the FFI is still payable even when 
HSE decides not to prosecute (so long as there  has been a material  breach  which there 
had been in this case). 
So although  P received invoices after the date on which it was notified that P and one of its 
directors would face prosecution, Im persuaded that the work and time P had been  invoiced 
for by the HSE related  to work  undertaken by the inspector  before  legal  action was initiated. 
When making this finding, Ive taken on board all of Ps comments  including  what it says 
about similar policies - underwritten by different insurers - covering the FFI. However,  its not 
uncommon for similarly described policies to provide different coverage,  and Ive considered  
the merits of this particular complaint on its own facts.
P also says the policy doesnt expressly  say the FFI is excluded,  and that the policy did 
cover the FFI in previous  years but this had changed at some point. However, whilst the 
policy doesnt expressly say the FFI is excluded, it doesnt say it is covered  either.  Further, 
Ive seen nothing  to show the policy terms have  changed over the years,  or that cover for the 
FFI had previously existed under the policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask P to accept or reject  my decision before 17 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1417416