K821x#15Complaint
Mr D and Miss G complain about  how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) handled a claim they
made on their travel  insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
Background
Mr D and Miss G hold a travel insurance policy with UKI. This insurance  policy  is provided as
part of their bank  account.
Mr D and Miss G went on a holiday  with their daughter to Disneyland  Paris. Mr D drove. 
During the drive  he noticed pain in his knee. By the time they arrived at the resort, Mr Ds 
pain was so bad that he needed to see a doctor.  The doctor advised that Mr D needed to go 
to hospital and so an ambulance was called to take him there.
The hospital  prescribed Mr D some medication and discharged him from hospital. Mr D then 
had to take a taxi to get his medication  from the nearest pharmacy and then back  to where  
he was staying.
Mr D called to let his insurers know about his leg and to see if they could assist  him getting 
home as he wasnt able to drive  and neither could Miss G. UKI said theyd look into things
for him and get back to him. On the last day of Mr Ds trip, UKI let him know  theyd arrange  
for him and his family  to fly home.  
Mr D didnt think UKI updated him as it should, and thought itd unnecessarily  delayed  his 
claim so it didnt have to pay out for him cutting his holiday short. He also wasnt  happy  UKI 
said it wouldnt reimburse him for the cost of his taxi.
Mr D also wasnt  happy UKI told him hed have three seats on the plane  to rest his leg, but 
didnt tell him hed need  to check in himself.  So when he went to board the plane he only had 
two seats and his family werent  sat near him. Hes also said the taxi due to pick him up in 
the UK was late.
UKI looked into his concerns and said it had updated him when it had updates to give.  It said 
Mr D had called it a lot, but it didnt always have  updates to call him when  he did. UKI said it
wasnt responsible  for the seats not being together  on the plane.  It said Mr Ds taxi fares 
arent covered by the policy and it said Mr Ds holiday wasnt  cut short and the policy  didnt 
cover him for his loss of enjoyment.
Unhappy, Mr D and Miss G brought their complaint here. Our investigator  first thought that 
UKI should have  done more to let Mr D know hed need to check in himself  to get his seats 
together on the plane and she recommended it pay Mr D £150 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by this.
But she thought  UKI had updated Mr D appropriately. She thought  it wasnt responsible  for  
the taxi arriving  late in the UK as the plane was ahead  of schedule. And she thought  UKI 
didnt need to pay Mr D for the cost of the taxi as it wasnt  covered by the policy.
UKI didnt  agree. It said it wasnt responsible  for the check in process  on the plane. Mr D 
didnt agree either, and he didnt think all his points had been considered. Specifically, he 
said hes not received  any costs  back  from UKI and thought he should  be reimbursed for his 
part of the holiday, and the taxi fees.  He did agree to the compensation of £150 for the flight.
Ref: DRN13457772Whilst we were looking into the complaint further, UKI paid Mr D the expenses  hed incurred  
and claimed for, with the exception of the taxi fare. UKI also agreed to pay the £150 
compensation our investigator recommended. This meant the only outstanding issues  were 
whether UKI should pay for Mr Ds part of the holiday and whether  UKI should reimburse 
Mr D for the taxi fare.
Our investigator thought that on reflection UKI should pay for the taxi fare, as Mr D was left 
with no alternative other than to take a taxi to get his medication. And they thought  UKI 
should pay Mr D for the effective curtailment of the trip. The recommended  this as they felt 
Mr D wasnt able to use the rides or enjoy the park, which was the main purpose  of the trip.
Mr D agreed, but UKI didnt and asked  for an ombudsman to decide. It said the taxi fare isnt 
covered by the policy, and Mr Ds holiday  wasnt cut short.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im thinking of partially  
upholding Mr D and Miss Gs complaint.
Taxi fare
The policy terms and conditions outline  what is and isnt covered.  Looking  at these, I can see 
Mr D and Miss G are covered  for Emergency medical and related costs.  Under  this section 
the policy explains Mr D and Miss G are covered for emergency medical costs  and 
emergency medical treatment (including ambulance and rescue  fees to take them to 
hospital).
Based on this I think UKI were acting fairly when paying Mr D the costs hed had to pay in 
getting to the hospital, but not the costs  he had to pay to get his medication and to get him 
back to his accommodation. I understand Mr D has said he was left with no other  option  than 
to get a taxi to the nearest pharmacy and then to where they were  staying, and I accept  this 
was most likely the case. But unfortunately for Mr D this doesnt mean these costs are 
covered by his and Miss Gs policy with UKI.
The return  journey
Ive looked into what happened with Mr D and Miss Gs journey home.  And I can see that 
UKI did try and book  Mr D a plane  ticket with two spare seats to the left of him so hed have 
a more comfortable journey home.  But they didnt inform him of the check  in process  and 
that hed have to check  in himself in order to get the seats together. Initially, UKI felt itd done  
nothing wrong  here, but our investigator thought they should  have done more. She felt that 
whilst UKI wasnt  responsible for the seats, it could have done more  to let him know hed 
need to contact the airline to increase his chances of getting  the seats he needed.  Because  
of this she recommended UKI pay Mr D £150  compensation.
Both UKI and Mr D agreed  to this amount, and Im also satisfied its a fair offer to resolve this 
part of Mr D and Miss Gs complaint.
Mr D and Miss G were  also unhappy that on their return to the UK the taxi UKI had booked  
to take them  home wasnt  there and arrived late. I can understand how this would have 
Ref: DRN13457773added to the trouble and upset Mr D was experiencing.  But as the flight had arrived early, 
and this was rectified  reasonably quickly Im not recommending  UKI do anything  more here.
The service  throughout  the claim
I understand Mr D and Miss G are unhappy  with the service throughout the claim. Theyve  
said they think UKI delayed the process unnecessarily  so it wouldnt have to pay them  for 
cutting their holiday short. Theyre also unhappy  with the level of updates  UKI provided.
Looking at the contact notes and the claim notes,  Ive not seen any evidence  to show UKI 
delayed the claim. It was waiting on medical reports and Im satisfied it was reasonable in 
doing this before authorising any claim and arranging Mr D and Miss Gs return journey.
After looking at the contact notes Im also satisfied with the updates  UKI provided  Mr D. I can 
understand him wanting to resolve  the situation  as soon as possible, but I wouldnt expect 
UKI to update  him unless  there was an update to give. And as mentioned above, I dont find 
that UKI treated Mr D unfairly  in the progression of his claim.
The effective  curtailment  of Mr D's holiday
Mr D and Miss Gs policy with UKI does provide cover if their holiday is cut short or, 
curtailed. It says cover will be provided  if Mr D is seriously injured  or seriously  ill. UKI has 
said theres no cover under this part of the policy. Theyve said Mr Ds trip wasnt  cut short,  
and there  was no medical need  for him to return home early.  It said it understands his 
holiday wasnt the same  after his injury, but that loss of enjoyment isnt covered by the 
policy.
Mr D thinks there should be cover as he wasnt able to visit Disneyland  and this was the 
purpose of his trip.
Our investigator thought that while Mr Ds holiday wasnt actually cut short,  it was effectively 
cut short.  She agreed with Mr D that as the main purpose of his trip was to visit the park with 
his family,  his injury  prevented him from doing  so.
Looking at all the evidence. Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator. I appreciate  
that Mr Ds main reason  for his trip was to visit the theme parks,  but the medical  evidence  
doesnt suggest that he was prevented from doing so.
I understand Mr D must have been in a lot of pain and his holiday was certainly not the same 
following the injury.  But in order for me to say that UKI should pay for the curtailment of his 
trip. Id need  to see medical evidence that Mr D was unable to attend  the park at all, such as 
needing to stay in his hotel room or keep his leg elevated. And in this case  Ive not seen that.
The medical evidence  shows Mr D was discharged  from hospital and prescribed some 
medication to help him. The medical information shows Mr D couldnt  drive, but not that he 
couldnt walk or sit. Im also conscious he wasnt provided crutches or a wheelchair, although 
Im aware his fit to fly certificate said hed need  wheelchair assistance.
This means  Mr D effectively chose not to attend  the park. And while  this was an entirely 
understandable decision  to make  considering the pain he was in. Im not satisfied it was 
medically necessary.  And so I understand this will be a disappointment to Mr D but Im not 
recommending UKI pay any benefit to Mr D for this.
Ref: DRN13457774My provisional decision was that based  on the above. I was thinking  of partially upholding 
Mr D and Miss Gs complaint. To put things  right I required U K Insurance limited  to:
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not having two
spare seats next to him on the flight home
UKI agreed  with my findings and made  no further  comment.
Mr D disagreed. He said he spent is time stuck in his room and had no way of getting to the 
holiday park.  He also said he was yet to receive  any funds from UKI and said he had no 
choice other  than to get a taxi back from the hospital to the park.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen evidence  that the part of Mr Ds claim which was eligible for payment was sent to 
him by bank  transfer. So Im satisfied UKI has done  what it needed to in this respect.
Ive considered Mr Ds points about needing  to take a taxi and being  stuck in his room. But 
unfortunately for Mr D, these dont give me reason  to change my decision. I understand his 
point, but no medical  evidence  has been provided  to show Mr D was unable  to attend the 
park. And while his actions of taking a taxi back from the hospital  are reasonable too, this 
doesnt mean the cost he incurred to do so are covered by his policy  with UKI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr D and Miss Gs complaint. To put things  right I 
require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not having two
spare seats next to him on the flight home
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1345777