K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the difficulties she experienced with Clydesdale  Bank  Plc that she 
says has caused  her distress and inconvenience.
background
Mrs H had Term Deposit  accounts with Clydesdale. In May 2018, one of her accounts was
about to mature.  Mrs H didnt want to re-invest  the funds but wanted them  paid into her
building society account. She said she was told this couldnt be done and that she had to
have the funds paid into a bank  account.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and so went into branch and arrangements  were made for the
funds to be paid into her building society,  without the need  for them  to be transferred first to
her bank account.
Mrs H returned to branch  when she got her final maturity options form to make  sure the
same process could be followed.  But she said the branch member, on the front desk, didnt
understand what she was asking  for and spoke  rudely to her.
Clydesdale accepted its level of customer service wasnt to its expected  standard  and had
apologised. But Mrs H said Clydesdale in its response hadnt taken into account the time
shed spent trying to get this sorted  out. And had apologised  for a complaint she hadnt
made, about her being called by her first name during a call to its call centre.  Mrs H didnt
accept Clydesdales  response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Clydesdale had done what  it reasonably  could do to arrange for
Mrs Hs funds to be paid to her. And that even though Mrs H hadnt complained to
Clydesdale about  being called by her first name it wasnt unreasonable  for it to look into the
customer service  it provided.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this. She said she had dealt with being called by her first name  in
the call at the time and had moved on. She said she wanted to be compensated for the
distress caused by the poor customer service she experienced, in branch. And for the time
she had to take to get her funds paid to her. She has asked for her complaint to be reviewed
by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  which said:
Mrs Hs complaint is about:
being told conflicting information  about  getting her funds paid into her building society  
account;
the time she has had to take to get her funds  repaid this way; and 
the poor customer service she received.
payment into her building  society account
Ref: DRN15366312On the maturity of her Term Deposit account Mrs H was sent an options  form. On this Mrs H
could say what she wanted to do with her funds. She chose Option 2, which was to close
her Term Deposit with the funds paid into her named account. The form goes on to say that
it would  try to repay the funds by the next business  day, but that:
Sometimes it is not possible  to verify  the details you have provided and if this is the case  we
will issue  a cheque within 5 business  days following the maturity of your Term  Deposit.
Clydesdale werent  able to verify the details  of Mrs Hs building society account. So it could
have chosen to pay the funds back by cheque. But, after Mrs H went  into branch, it agreed
to pay the funds into one of its own accounts before transferring them, using the Clearing
House Automated Payments System (CHAPS), a same day payment service,  into Mrs H
building society account.
I know Mrs H thinks she was given conflicting  information as her funds were able to be paid
from Clydesdale into her building  society account  without the need for her to use her bank
account. But I think the options  form she was sent explains that it might not always be
possible to pay funds  into some accounts and a different method of payment could be used.
So, Im satisfied Clydesdale  tried to assist  Mrs H and took reasonable steps to reduce the
inconvenience caused to her.
But Mrs H did have to spend time to get this done. So I need to consider the way Clydesdale
handled the service  it gave  to Mrs H.
customer service  (branch)
On receiving her final maturity options  form Mrs H went into branch to check her funds could
again be paid straight to her building society account, as outlined above. She went  to the
front desk; it is here Mrs H said she had difficulty in getting it understood what it was that she
wanted. And she admits  she was herself  frustrated with the time she had to spend  to get the
matter sorted. She did say she was wasting her time but said she was shocked to be told
youre wasting mine  too. Ms H said this experience was horrible.  I dont  underestimate
Mrs Hs strength of feeling regarding this and have no reason to doubt this was said to her.
Mrs H has referred  to her account as being  a Fixed  Bond rather than a Term Deposit which
probably could  have caused  some  confusion. But Mrs H said she had all her documents  with
her, and these  do clearly  show  the nature of her investment. And I am persuaded when
going to the branch she would have taken  this paperwork with her. 
So I would have  expected, knowing how her previous accounts had been dealt with, that she 
would have been able to get her query answered  without the difficulties she experienced.
customer service  (call centre)
Mrs H said she hasnt complained about  her call centre experience  as she said she dealt
with the issue  at the time. I have listened to the call Mrs H made to Clydesdale  which was
about a letter she had got from them. From  this call I can get a sense of the frustration Mrs H
has had in her dealings with Clydesdale. It is this call where Mrs H is called by her first
name. Mrs H does  address this in the call and gets an apology, which Mrs H accepts.
Clydesdale has already accepted it could have handled things better than it did. And has
apologised and provided feedback to its staff. I think this is a reasonable response for the
Ref: DRN15366313service given by its call centre staff, and Mrs H has already accepted the apology  made
during the call. 
But I dont think an apology is enough  for the experience Mrs H suffered while  in the branch.
Its not for this service to punish a business for something it didnt get right,  but it is our role
to give consideration  to any compensation that might be due because  of what  it has done
and the impact this has had.
Mrs H was inconvenienced  whilst  trying  to get her funds paid into her building  society
account. But I dont  think Clydesdale  could have reasonably done anything  more than it did,
in getting her funds  paid to her. But while Mrs H was in the branch I dont think  the service
she got was acceptable and this did cause her distress.
So I think Clydesdale should compensate Mrs H for this distress by paying her £50.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs H agreed  with my provisional  decision.
Clydesdale sought  further comment from the branch  but no further information has been 
sent to me to consider.  But Clydesdale  again said a number of staff at the branch had tried 
to help Mrs H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I havent  been persuaded to change  
my decision  - for the reasons given below.
Its not unusual  for me to need to decide a case where its simply not possible to know 
exactly what happened. In situations where I cant ever know for sure what took place, I will 
decide what I consider  is most likely to have happened, based on the balance  of the 
evidence that I do have.
I said in my provisional decision that I do think Clydesdale tried to help Mrs H. And 
Clydesdale has taken  steps, by giving feedback to its staff, to prevent further  situations  such 
as this. But I do find Mrs Hs account persuasive  as to what was said to her in the branch. 
And I do think Mrs H was distressed by what was said to her.
Ref: DRN15366314my final decision
For these reasons I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and ask Clydesdale  Bank  Plc to pay Mrs H 
£50 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1536631