K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he was given to transfer his Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) pension to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2011.  He has also 
complained that his adviser didnt provide the ongoing review service  that had been  agreed 
upon. Quilter Financial Services Ltd is responsible  for what happened,  so it is Quilter I will 
be referring to in my decision. 
Mr Bs wife also received  advice from the same adviser and has raised a separate  
complaint.  
background
In 2011 Mr B was a member of a final salary  occupational pension  scheme.  He also 
contributed to an AVC pension  provided  through his employer. He invested his AVC monies  
in a with-profits fund.  In 2011, Mr and Mrs B engaged the services of a financial adviser. 
Mr B wanted  to review  his AVC arrangements and Mrs B wanted advice on starting a new 
pension to supplement her existing pension provision. They met with their adviser  in 
February 2011. A joint fact-find was completed. Separate advice letters  were  subsequently 
sent to Mr and Mrs B. Mr B was advised to transfer his AVC to a SIPP with a different 
provider and to invest in an equity and bond  fund. Mr B accepted the advice and transferred 
his AVC to the SIPP.  The adviser  also agreed  to provide Mr and Mrs B with regular  reviews.
In 2018 Mr B questioned why he had been  advised to set up the SIPP.  He had particular 
concerns about  the SIPPs charges relative  to the AVC pension he had transferred from 
given that he hadnt made  use of the wider range of features provided by the SIPP  
(especially in relation  to fund choice).  He also complained about the lack of further  reviews  
provided by the adviser.
In response to Mr Bs complaint Quilter  said, in brief, that the adviser didnt recommend 
continuing with the AVC because Mr B had concerns  about  its performance and about 
service levels  at the AVC provider. It said the SIPP provided flexibility  in relation to the taking 
of retirement benefits. And it said the SIPP had produced a competitive rate of return.
With regards to the lack of reviews by the adviser, Quilter accepted that the adviser had 
fallen short of what had been originally agreed  with, and paid by, Mr and Mrs B. It therefore  
offered to refund the ongoing charges that had been levied, along with £200 for the trouble 
and upset this issue had caused. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us. An investigator  upheld the complaint because he thought  
the adviser shouldnt  have  recommended the SIPP given  its charges and Mr Bs needs  and 
circumstances at the time. Quilter requested an ombudsmans decision although it didnt 
give any reasons why it disagreed with the investigators findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator and for broadly  the same reasons. Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint.
Ref: DRN19561592My starting point here is the cost of Mr Bs SIPP which  was more than some of the 
alternatives that would  have  been available to him, notably the AVC he was already invested  
in. The suitability letter  didnt provide the cost of Mr Bs SIPP.  It did, however, say that fund 
performance in the SIPP  would  have  to be 0.71% p.a. higher than in the AVC to make up for 
the SIPPs higher charges. This doesnt necessarily mean  the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable. My argument isnt that cheaper is always better. However,  in this case, the 
0.71% figure isnt negligible. And Im not persuaded Mr B had a need  for the additional 
features provided  by the SIPP, so I dont  think he would have wanted to pay the extra  to 
access those features. I therefore  dont think the advice to transfer was suitable.
Quilter has pointed to the wider fund choice that the SIPP  provided.  However,  its not clear to 
me why a wider fund choice would have been necessary for Mr B. The adviser  classified him 
as having a cautious attitude to risk. This was the second most risk-averse category. So 
this would appear to limit the extent of the funds Mr B would, conceivably, have been  
interested in investing in. Its also notable that even though the advice letter said Mr B was 
intending to retire at age 65, Mr B has said  persuasively in my view  that he intended to 
retire at 60. This is also in keeping with at least two of his AVC illustrations, which  had a 
retirement age of 60, and what was recorded  on the fact-find. This means he had fewer  than 
ten years  from the date of the advice  to retirement,  which is another  reason why he wouldnt 
likely have made use of many of the more adventurous funds available through the SIPP.  
On a similar note, for the recommendation  to have been suitable there would have to have 
been a good chance that Mr B would be financially better off as a result.  However, Mr Bs 
cautious attitude to risk meant he wasnt going  to be investing in the more aggressive  funds  
that would  have made this likely  bearing in mind  his new pension would have needed to 
generate an additional 0.71% p.a. of returns just to breakeven. 
The advice letter did say Mr B had an interest in multi-asset  funds (such as the equity and 
bond fund that he ended  up investing  in) and that these funds werent available  through the 
AVC. However, its not clear to me why it was necessary for Mr B to invest in such a fund 
when he could have  just as easily have created the same effect  at a lower  cost  by 
investing in a number of different funds  through his AVC. Yes, the AVC fund range was far 
more limited than in the SIPP.  But the range was wide enough  to have allowed Mr B to 
create a multi-asset portfolio. I dont think the fact that his pension  would have  been  spread 
across two or more  funds  would, or should,  have been a concern for him.
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Quilter  also pointed to the greater flexibility  that his SIPP  
provided relative to the AVC, especially in relation to income drawdown. It said this may now 
be of interest to Mr B following the governments introduction of greater pension freedoms 
which ended the requirement to buy an annuity.  
My first point here is that the government only introduced pension freedoms in 2015 so I 
dont think Quilter can rely on this to prove  the advice it gave to Mr B in 2011  was suitable. 
That said,  I accept that Mr B can now benefit  from this greater flexibility  so there is an 
argument that Mr B has, ultimately, gained from Quilters advice. However, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Mr B needed greater flexibility at the time or has subsequently 
benefited from it. Now that Mr B is in the process  of deciding what to do with his retirement 
funds, that may now change. Even so, it still doesnt  mean he had to transfer  when he did. 
In short,  Im satisfied it wasnt suitable  to have advised Mr B to take on the added expense  of 
the SIPP given  the strong  possibility he wouldnt have financially benefited from doing so 
and he didnt have  a strong  need  for the features the SIPP provided.    
Ref: DRN19561593Our investigator thought Mr B would  have been better advised to stay where  he was  that 
is, remain in the AVC and remain invested  in the with-profits fund. His proposed 
compensation took this into account. Although Quilter didnt provide any substantive 
comments in response  to the investigators  assessment, I think  it worth addressing two 
points it had made previously about  why it didnt think  the AVC and with-profits fund were 
suitable.  
Firstly, in its July 2011  advice letter, Quilter said the with-profits fund would have been within 
Mr Bs risk tolerances  but had been  discounted  as an option  because Mr B was said to have 
wanted the flexibility to change his investments  in the future but was uninterested in the 
funds offered by the AVC provider. However, as I said above, the funds available through  
the AVC would have allowed Mr B to have easily accessed enough asset  classes given he 
had limited need for a particularly wide range of funds. There  was also no charge for 
switching. And even if Mr B did think he might, eventually, need to access a wider  fund 
choice that doesnt mean  he had to transfer at that point.
Secondly, in its advice  letter and in its response to Mr Bs complaint, Quilter said Mr B had 
concerns about  the service given by the AVC provider. I dont know  if service levels were 
poor. But even  if I assume they were, I dont think  this would have  been  reason enough to 
justify the transfer  to a more expensive pension unless there  was some persuasive evidence  
pointing to the service  being both significantly poorer than other providers  and being  unlikely 
to improve. I cant see any evidence along those lines. 
I think Mr B could,  conceivably, have been advised to invest in a number of different funds 
with the same AVC provider or even advised to transfer to a stakeholder  pension.  But, given 
all the above,  Im satisfied  that staying with the AVC pension, and staying in the with-profits 
fund, would have  been suitable advice on this occasion and is a fair and reasonable starting  
point for calculating compensation. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would be in now 
if he had been  given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  To compensate  
Mr B fairly, Quilter  must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Quilter should also add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, the compensation amount should,  if possible,  be paid into Mr Bs 
pension plan.  The payment should  allow for the effect  of charges and any available 
tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  
with any existing  protection  or allowance.
Ref: DRN19561594If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump  sum after making a deduction of 15%. 
The payment  would otherwise have been  used  to provide  pension  benefits, 25% of 
which would  be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according to his likely 
tax paying status in retirement  presumed  to be 20%, so the 15% deduction 
adequately reflects  this.
Pay Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken  off. Quilter should  give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Mr Bs 
SIPPstill existsAVC Plan 
invested  in 
with-profits 
funddate of 
investmentdate of my 
final decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from Mr Bs SIPP  at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. In other words, its the notional transfer value of the AVC at the end 
date had the contributions Mr B made to his SIPP been made to the AVC instead.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN19561595Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The AVC provided through  his employer, and the with-profits  fund, were suited to his 
requirements.
Mr B has not yet purchased an annuity, so there  is no need  to award for future 
losses. It is now for Mr B to consider his next steps with regards to his SIPP. 
If Quilter  is unable  to obtain  the necessary information to allow  the above to be calculated  
(for example, because it needs  information from another  party  such as the with-profits  
provider  and that party wont cooperate) then Mr Bs compensation could be delayed  for an 
indefinite period. In that situation, the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index 
 prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income Total  Return Index  should  
be used as the benchmark instead as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy  for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if Mr Bs pension had remained invested in his 
previous plan.
Finally, Mr B has questioned what happens to Quilters offer to return its advice fees and pay 
£200 in recognition of the trouble and upset  it caused. 
My understanding is that the fees were calculated to have been £1,733.66 but they havent  
been refunded  to Mr B. The compensation calculation above takes the advice fees into 
account in so far as the actual value of the SIPP as at the end date will have been lowered 
because of the fees which makes  the difference with the fair value  (and therefore 
compensation amount)  higher as a result. So I wont be making a separate  award for these 
fees  theyre  included  in the above  already. It could be argued that this contradicts the 
decision taken previously  on the case to time bar Mr Bs complaint about  missed review 
meetings from over six years  ago. However,  I think the approach  outlined  above is the 
correct one to take because  a complaint which  hasnt  been time barred (this one) has 
pointed to failings  in the advice process  that resulted in those  fees, and the policy  that 
allowed those fees to be charged, to be recommended.  And, had he stayed  invested  where  
he was, Mr B would  have been  less likely  to have needed such regular advice. Im also 
aware that my approach  to compensation is the same as that taken by our investigator and 
Quilter didnt comment on what  was being  proposed.
Its possible that the calculation above wont result in a financial loss to Mr B. This would  be 
because the SIPP has outperformed the estimated return Mr B would have got from his AVC 
arrangement, even after taking into account  the advice fees and the SIPPs higher charges. 
In this case, Mr B hasnt  lost out financially despite  the unsuitable advice. In this situation, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Quilter to return the advice fees.  
With regards to the £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Quilter, this 
should be paid whatever  the outcome of the compensation calculation. Given  the advice was 
unsuitable, Im satisfied Mr B was put to at least some inconvenience and its only fair that 
Quilter recognises this. Im satisfied £200 is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN19561596my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
must now pay Mr B compensation as set out above.  Quilter Financial Services  Ltd should 
also provide details of its compensation calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1956159