K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way Nationwide  Building Society handled  the recovery of her funds 
when she reported  a scam. 
background
Ms Ss version of events
Ms S says she met a handyman Mr D and hired him to do some work at her home. She 
has told us that Mr D did some work  at her home for her previously. She says she paid him 
in advance to purchase blinds  that he would then fit for her. 
Ms S made two bank transfers,  one for £120 on 26 June 2018 and another for £100 on 05 
July 2018. Ms S says she called Mr D a few times and sent messages but didnt get a 
response. Ms S says her daughter  also tried to contact him, she was successful in reaching 
him, and he said he had just come  back from holiday. 
Ms S says Mr D said he could no longer do the work so agreed  to return the money. Ms S 
says he returned  £70 but not the rest. Ms S says the money was returned to her son who in 
turn returned  to the money  to her. Ms S is seeking a refund of the outstanding £150  she paid 
to Mr D.
Ms S says she contacted the Police but they told her to contact  her bank as she couldnt 
remember any of Mr Ds details at the time of reporting it. Ms S also says she contacted the 
receiving bank herself and it told her it would be happy to reverse  the transaction but it would 
need contact from Nationwide  to do this.
Ms S says Nationwide  told her it had contacted the receiving bank but there was nothing  it 
could do. 
Nationwides response
Nationwide didnt uphold  Ms Ss complaint.  It said it attempted to raise a Credit Payment 
Recovery (CPR) but due to the policy in place at the time, it was unable to process this for 
good/services not received and advised her there was nothing further it could do to recover 
the funds. Nationwide also said it told Ms S she should contact Mr D directly and seek  legal  
advice or pursue this matter as civil dispute.
Ms S didnt agree with Nationwides final response  on the matter and brought  the complaint 
to our service.
Our involvement so far
One of our investigators  looked into things. She didnt think  this was a scam, she concluded 
that Ms S had known Mr D prior to this dispute.  She felt that the fact he returned some of the 
money and had been contactable meant that this wasnt a scam. She concluded that she 
didnt think Nationwide  should refund Ms S as it followed her instructions to make  the 
payment in the first instance  and it acted fairly when it didnt treat her claim as a scam in its 
attempts to recover her funds. 
Ref: DRN19671672The investigator also concluded the payments didnt stand out as being unusual or 
suspicious either, so again  it was fair that Nationwide processed the payments as per Ms Ss 
instructions.
The investigator also considered what might have happened if Nationwide had taken steps 
to recover her money. She concluded  that the money would  only likely be returned if the 
recipient of the funds agreed  to return them and because we didnt have Mr Ds version of 
events she couldnt  determine if this would  have been successful. Overall  she didnt 
recommend that Nationwide  needed to do anything further.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary she said: 
-she didnt know Mr D, so she didnt agree with the investigators comments that this 
wasnt a scam;
-she wasnt able to get in touch with Mr D as the investigator had said, it was only 
after her son reported it to the Police  that Mr D returned £70 to her;
-she worked in the financial  industry and thought this was a scam and not a dispute; 
and
-the receiving bank said it would freeze Mr Ds account if Nationwide got in touch.
As the matter couldnt be resolved by the investigator,  Ms S asked for an ombudsman  to 
review her complaint and so it has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything,  Ive come 
to same conclusion as the investigator  for largely  the same reasons. Ill explain  why. 
Ms S doesnt dispute authorising the payments in the first instance and Nationwide had an 
obligation to follow her instructions in line with the mandate it held on the account. Having 
considered the circumstances of the payments Im persuaded Nationwide acted correctly in 
executing Ms Ss payments to Mr D as she initially instructed.
The attempt to recover the funds
Nationwide says when  Ms S explained  what had happened, it considered raising a CPR as a 
way to help recover  her money. But said it didnt raise the CPR with the receiving  bank 
because it couldnt  dispute bank transfers  where  goods and services  had not been  received. 
This isnt the purpose of a CPR.
I thought it might be helpful  to clarify  this further.  A CPR can be used to recover  faster  
payments (and some other  types  of payments) sent in error - so where someone has 
received funds accidentally through either a customer or the bank error. That didnt happen 
here, Ms S didnt make  a mistake when sending the money, she simply wanted it to be 
returned after her relationship with Mr D broke down. So I dont think Nationwides actions 
were unfair here in not raising the recovery of her funds under the CPR. This recovery 
method isnt appropriate for Ms Ss dispute.
What else could Nationwide have done?
Ref: DRN19671673When Ms S contacted  Nationwide to tell them what had happened  it was for Nationwide  to 
consider good  industry practice in deciding what to do next. And where the matter is 
considered a private civil dispute it does not need to treat the claim as a scam and contact 
the receiving bank to recover  the money.
Here Nationwide treated  Ms Ss claim as a civil dispute and I dont think  this was unfair in the 
circumstances. I say this because Ms S has told our service  that she had used his services 
in the past so I dont agree with Ms S that he was unknown  to her. And it appears he is 
known to other members  of Ms Ss family  as they spoke with him and helped  to arrange the 
refund of the £70. He also returned some of the money, which isnt something a scammer 
would normally do. And whilst Ms S says she reported the matter to the Police she says they 
didnt investigate the matter further. As Nationwide  considered the matter as a civil dispute it 
didnt need to raise  a scam claim on the funds with the receiving  bank. And I dont think its 
actions here were unfair.
But Ive also thought about  what might  have happened even if Nationwide had raised  the 
matter as a scam and contacted the receiving bank. When a receiving bank receives 
notification of a scam  it also should consider good  industry practice and contact its customer  
to understand  what happened.  If the receiving bank considers the matter is a civil dispute  it 
may not decide  to return the funds.  But it should  also consider if its customer  has received 
the monies in good faith. It will usually contact its customer to understand more  about the 
dispute and make its decision on whether the funds  should be returned. 
I appreciate Ms S says the receiving bank told her they would block the account if she 
contacted Nationwide. But this is still dependant on the above factors  being taken into 
account. So if it was still considered a private civil dispute by the receiving bank then no 
action would have  been taken. And if the recipient  of the funds (Mr D) could  show 
entitlement to the funds  so if Mr D disputed  Ms Ss claim to the funds in his account  then 
the receiving bank might not return it in this instance either. 
Summary
I appreciate Ms S has lost out here and I can understand  why she might be frustrated but I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to cover her losses.  Im satisfied 
this is a dispute between her and Mr D and Nationwide  is not liable to refund her losses 
here. 
my final decision
As set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1967167