K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs W says Capital  One (Europe plc) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent 
before adding the PPI to her card. Mrs W applied for her card and PPI by post. She had no 
interaction with a Capital One representative  when she completed the form. Capital One Has 
provided a copy of Mrs Ws application  form and on it there is a separate  section for PPI 
where the option to take the policy has been selected. The form has also been signed by 
Mrs W in agreement with the selections  made on it. So I think Capital One made it clear that 
Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. 
Mrs W has told us she was working part-time when she took the policy and knew  her 
circumstances would  change the following year when she would no longer be working.  But 
the PPI covered people that worked part-time and it could have been cancelled  at any time.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time she took the PPI it doesnt  
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN16510052Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe plc) does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One (Europe  plc) does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1651005