1complaint
Ms D has complained about the advice she was given  by Portal Financial Services  LLP 
(Portafina), to transfer her group personal  pension (GPP) to a Self-invested Personal Pension  
(SIPP). The SIPP funds  were then used  to invest in several unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS).
background
The background to this complaint was clearly set out in the investigators  opinion dated 
6 November 2020. Ive summarise  the key points:  
Ms D says she was cold called in 2014 by a company who offered  to introduce her to and 
arrange a free pension review with Portafina
At the time, Ms Ds GPP had a transfer value of £29,754. The annual management charge 
(AMC) on the GPP  was 0.656%. There were no other charges. Ms D was invested  in a 
managed fund
Portafinas fact find recorded that Ms D was 43 with an intended retirement age of 65. She 
was a single  mother  with financially dependent children. Ms D was unemployed and her 
only pension provision  was the paid up GPP, and she was unhappy with its performance.  
Ms D had no other investments and her attitude  to risk (ATR)  was recorded as 
adventurous  
Within its suitability  report Portafina summarised Ms Ds objectives as To benefit from a 
cheaper scheme, potentially higher investment performance and to have more flexibility 
with the fund. Portafina recommended Ms D transfer her GPP to a SIPP  and invest  the 
following funds:
-Lakeview UK Investments  16.28%
-Real Estate Investments USA  12.82%
-Strategic Residential  Developments  9.7%
-Dimensional Global  Short-Dated  Bond Fund  - 5% 
-Dimensional Multi Factor Equity Fund - 50%
-Cash - 6.19%
Ms D accepted Portafinas  recommendation and the funds from the GPP were  transferred 
to the SIPP  in February 2015
Ms D complained to Portafina in 2018  as she didnt think  the advice was in her best 
interest. Portafina rejected the complaint so the matter was referred  to this service for an 
independent review
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and thought that it should be upheld  for a number 
of reasons, those being:
The SIPP wasnt cheaper and the switch represented a sizable reduction to Ms Ds 
already modest  transfer value. The ongoing SIPP charges were  higher than her existing 
GPP. Portafinas initial  advice fee was 3% of Ms Ds transferred fund value and its ongoing 
advice fee was 1% pa. Along with this, the SIPPs AMC was 0.5%.  Whereas the only cost 
of the existing GPP  was a 0.656% AMC. So, the recommendation to switch  GPP to a SIPP  
resulted in a more  expensive pension plan.
Although Ms D may have done  something different with her GPP funds, with the right 
advice, the GPP was fit for purpose. There was a variety  of investment choices within  the 
GPP so Ms D couldve remained in the GPP and switched funds. There  were  no added  
reasons given for a transfer  that couldnt  have  been fulfilled  by the GPP,  there  was no 
need to switch to a SIPP.
Portafina gave  advice on the underlying investments so it had to ensure the overall 
suitability of the pension transfer, including the investments  were  suitable. Any 
Ref: DRN14099912recommendation shouldve been  in Ms Ds best interest as well as within the ATR she was 
willing and able to take.
Portafina described Ms D as having an adventurous attitude to risk based  on the 
questionnaire she filled out. It also agreed  this matched the capacity of loss she could take 
with her investment.  Not much evidence was provided  in the suitability report  as to the 
reason why Ms Ds capacity for loss could accept high risk investments. In fact the 
questions highlighted  in the report all clearly show that Ms D had minimal  capacity  for such  
high risk given her situation at the time, being unemployed  and a single mother. This was 
her only pension and her only means  for providing for herself in retirement. Ms D had no 
previous investment experience and while she stated  she wanted to take high risk in order 
to gain high rewards,  the investigator  didnt think Ms D fully understood what this meant or 
how it would impact  her, should  she lose her entire  investment. While it can be argued Ms 
D wanted to take on some sort of risk over the long term in order  to help her funds grow, 
this coupled with her capacity for loss meant at most she should have been categorised as 
a balanced investor.
Around 50% of Ms Ds money was invested  in international equities and around 38% 
invested in property bonds. High risk property bonds are loans to relatively new or 
unproven business  which promise to pay fairly high returns. However  the returns are 
based on the success or failure of property  developments. And which  can involve the loss 
of the original capital  if the development fails. This means, a significant proportion  of Ms 
Ds investments were either illiquid, abroad or unregulated;  it appears some of the 
investments shared  all three  of these  high risk characteristics. These types  of investment 
by their very nature have multiple  significant risk factors associated  with them. There  can 
be a lack of regulation, longevity,  potential insolvency, offshore and currency  exchange,  
liquidity issues and other factors which could prevent investors from accessing their funds 
and the fact that the funds  are mostly  dependant on specific market  areas.  
Portafina shouldve  known Ms D didnt have  the knowledge or experience to make an 
informed assessment about the portfolio it was recommending or properly appreciate the 
risks of some of the investments. She was a retail investor,  and the investigator didnt 
think subjecting a significant proportion of Ms Ds only retirement  provision to 
international exposure and property bonds, could reasonably be justified or seen as 
anything but unsuitable. These investments werent suited  to someone who had a 
balanced investment  approach to risk or someone who was an inexperienced  investor.
The investigator thought that if Portafina  had clearly explained  how great the risks were  
and how Ms D could lose all of her investment and be left with no pension,  and Ms D had 
understood this, she didnt think  that Ms D wouldve transferred her pension  or made 
these investments. There was nothing  to indicate Ms D wanted or needed a SIPP other 
than to accommodate these high risk investments.
The need to invest Ms Ds pension in line with her true attitude to risk could  likely  have  
been met within her existing personal  pension. The investigators  view was that the 
pension switch was only recommended to host the high risk investments and the advice  
to transfer Ms Ds pension  was unnecessary  and unsuitable. 
The investigator set out what she considered to be fair compensation, putting Ms D as 
close as possible to the position  she would  now be in, had she been given suitable 
advice. 
Both Ms D and Portafina accepted the investigators findings  and so our complaint was 
closed on the basis that Portafina  would settle  the matter in line with the investigators  
findings. 
Some months later Portafina wrote  to our service  to advise that it no longer agreed with the 
investigators findings. It said it required an ombudsmans decision as it was concerned  the 
investigator had said that the charges were higher with the SIPP  when factoring Portafinas 
initial and ongoing  advice fees. It thought that it was unreasonable as this assumed that 
Portafina should not have  charged a fee for the service provided. It said that had the advice 
been for Ms D to retain her GPP, then Portal would still have required a fee of some kind. 
Ref: DRN14099913And it said the decision to receive ongoing advice was optional  but Ms D had chosen to have  
this. 
As Ms D hadnt received  her settlement from Portafina, she contacted our service  and asked 
for her complaint to reopened. So as both parties  requested that the matter  be reopened, it 
was agreed that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman to reach a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im upholding this complaint. 
Under the Dispute  Resolution  rules,  set out in the regulators  handbook,  Portafina has an 
obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty to comply with any settlement it has agreed  
to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3.7.12R
A respondent must  comply promptly with:
1.any award or direction made by the Ombudsman ; and
2.any settlement which it agrees  at an earlier stage  of the procedures {my 
emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply 
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina retracted its agreement to settle  this 
complaint in line with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed  the resolution  of this 
matter for Ms D but its also not in line with the regulators  rules.  
Our service would not usually reopen  matters  where  an agreement has been reached by both 
parties. But in this case Ms D also requested that the matter be reopened, so we have agreed  to 
do so on this occasion. 
For completeness, I should explain that I agree with the outcome the investigator reached and for 
mostly the same reasons.  And I only intend to address the issue  that Portafina has said it no 
longer accepts, that being the issue of its fees being  taken  into account. 
Firstly, I think its important to point out that the issue of whether the new arrangement  was more 
expensive is only one of the reasons this complaint was upheld. So even if I was determine that 
the SIPP was a cheaper option  which I have done  - the complaint still succeeds on the other  
aspects. I say this because, regardless  of the cost of the SIPP,  they arent suitable for every  
investor. While  they offer greater flexibility in terms of the types of investments that can be made 
into them,  this flexibility isnt necessarily  something  that less experience  investors, like Ms D, 
require. And SIPPs generally tend to be suited to investors that are comfortable making their own 
investments decisions  or who have  sufficient funds to pay to have their funds managed.  Ms D was 
neither of these.  
As the investigator  said, Portafina erroneously classed Ms D as having  an adventurous ATR. And 
the main reason the SIPP was established  seems to have been so Ms D could invest  in a number 
of UCIS and other  high risk investments, which were not suitable for her.   
In terms of the fees, Portafina says  that by factoring  in its initial  and ongoing  advice  fee the 
investigator  concluded  the transfer  was unsuitable.  But it considers  this is unreasonable  as it 
assumes Portafina shouldnt have charged  a fee for the service provided. 
I find it surprising that Portafina would raise  this argument and I note its said that it would have 
needed to have been paid even if Ms D hadnt accepted the advice  and had remained in her GPP. 
However, Ms D had agreed  to a free pension review. This was Ms Ds understanding  of matters 
and it was set out on the Pension Authority  form which Ms D signed on 22 July 2014. I refer 
Portafina to the section  of this form that says By signing this document you are only agreeing to 
allow Portal Financial Services to provide their Free Pension Review {my emphasis }. No further 
Ref: DRN14099914action will be taken without your express consent . So I cant agree that, by offering Ms D a free 
pension review, Portafina would have needed  to have been paid, even if it had correctly advised 
Ms D to remain  in her GPP. 
I do accept that if it had given Ms D advice to switch investments  within her current plan, then it 
might have decided  to charge a fee for this particular  advice. But thats not what happened here. 
Im also conscious that Ms D was cold called by a company working  for Portafina and she was 
offered a free pension review.  This doesnt suggest  to me that Ms D was so unhappy with her 
existing arrangement that she was actively looking to move her pension fund or switch  
investments. 
Portafina recorded one of Ms Ds objectives as moving to a cheaper pension arrangement.  It said 
that by following its recommendation, Ms D would meet  this objective. But from what  Ive seen, 
the SIPP wasnt cheaper; the switch represented a sizable reduction  to Ms Ds already modest 
transfer value.  And the ongoing SIPP charges were higher than her existing GPP. 
Portafinas initial fee was 3% of Ms Ds transferred fund value and its ongoing advice fee was 1%. 
I appreciate that the ongoing servicing  was an optional service that Ms D chose to have. But with 
so little investment  experience, I cant see that Ms D would have been happy to manage the SIPP  
investments herself.  So whilst it may have been an optional service, I think  the cost needed  to be 
included in the overall assessment. 
The SIPPs  AMC was 0.5% and there  were  additional charges for each individual investment  
within the SIPP. Whereas for Ms Ds GPP, the only cost she was incurring was a 0.656% AMC. 
Bearing in mind Ms D was, at most, a balanced investor, I dont  believe there was great  prospect 
of making up the cost of the switch  via investment growth without taking significant investment 
risks, of which she had no experience. And as Ive already said,  I dont believe the investment 
approach Portafina  advised Ms D to take was suitable. Im also mindful that Ms Ds GPP,  which  I 
consider was invested more in line with her ATR, had provided an average  return  of 10.62%  per 
year over the 5 years up to the transfer.  So I think more appropriate advice wouldve been for 
Ms D to leave her GPP  where it was. And had Portafina provided Ms D with this suitable  advice 
when it completed its free pension review  no fees would have been payable.  
I therefore uphold  this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services  LLP to pay redress as set 
out below.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Ms D should be put as closely as possible  into the position she would probably  now 
be in if she had been given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Ms D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what 
she would  have done differently. But Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below  is fair and 
reasonable given Ms D's circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
What should Portafina  do?
To compensate Ms D fairly,  Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Ms D's investment  with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Ms D's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges  and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Ms D's pension plan, it should pay that 
Ref: DRN14099915amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms D's actual  or expected  marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. 
For example, if Ms D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms D would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms D how much has been taken off. Portafina should  give Ms D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index;  for the 
other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of settlement 
(if compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the business 
being  notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should  take ownership  of the illiquid  
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should 
be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Ms D provides an undertaking to pay 
Portafina any amount  she may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Portafina  will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  using 
the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  should  be 
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms D wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted  
to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE 
Ref: DRN14099916WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Ms D's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Ms D into that position.  It does not mean that Ms D would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Ms D could  have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services  LLP should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation  
to Ms D in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D either to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1409991