K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the management of his investments by London  Stone Securities 
Limited (London  Stone)  under a discretionary mandate held by it.
In particular Mr B says he:
Was cold called and pestered into becoming  a client  of London Stone.
Was promised returns of 6% to 8% per annum, but actually suffered a loss of over 
£7,000 (or 25%).
Asked for all his of investments (approximately £30,000) to be sold and the sale 
proceeds remitted to him. But instead he was persuaded by London Stone to accept  
the remittance  of only £20,000,  with the balance of £10,000 being reinvested in two 
safe stocks  Carillion Plc and Scottish  Mortgage Investment Trust  stock  that went  
on to fall in value by over £5,500.
background
Mr B invested £15,000 in a stocks and shares  ISA in August 2016  with London Stone. He 
then invested  £5,000  in April 2017,  £5,777 in June 2017 and £5,000  in August 2017. The 
£5,777 investment was the proceeds of another account Mr B held with London Stone made 
up of an initial deposit of £5,000 (made in December 2016) and a net profit of £777 (made  
between February and May 2017).
Between August 2016 and February  2018  Mr B invested £30,777  in his stocks  and shares 
ISA, made a net loss of £7,215 and withdrew £23,562. Of particular concern to Mr B are the 
following losses:
£5,116 (10,640 shares purchased in Carillion Plc on 4 September 2017 for £5,116 
and which were  later deemed  to be worthless).
£662 (1,020 shares purchased in Scottish  Mortgage Investment Trust on 
22 November 2017 for £4,849 and which were  later sold on 6 February 2018 for 
£4,187).
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators  who concluded that:
She wasnt persuaded that Mr B was cold called or pestered into becoming a client of 
London Stone.
She wasnt persuaded that London  Stone  promised the returns  submitted by Mr B. 
The documentary evidence she had seen  had made  no promise or guarantee as to 
returns.
She wasnt persuaded that Mr B gave London  Stone  instructions  to sell all of his 
investments and to remit the sale proceeds to him, or that he reinvested £10,000 
under duress.
London Stone was entitled to hold the view, as did many others, that investing  in 
Carillion Plc in early September 2017 was sound.
Ref: DRN15872422London Stone was entitled to hold the view, as did many others, that continuing to 
hold shares in Carillion Plc, rather than selling, was sound.  Indeed  Mr B said,  in 
response to an email dated  mid-November  2017, that the shares should be held until 
they improved.
London Stone was entitled to hold the view that investing in Scottish Mortgage 
Investment Trust in mid November 2017 was sound.
London Stone was entitled to hold the view, that continuing to hold Scottish  Mortgage  
Investment Trust shares, rather than selling, was sound.
She wasnt persuaded that London  Stone  had failed  to monitor  Mr Bs Carillion Plc 
and Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust holdings.
She wasnt persuaded that there was any delay on the part of London  stone in selling 
Mr Bs Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust holding.
Mr B didnt agree. He reiterated his previous submissions saying it was entirely 
unacceptable that he should have  suffered  the loss he did on his Carillion Plc holding.
The adjudicator considered Mr Bs response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change  her 
mind. Therefor Mr Bs complaint has been  passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons. 
Its clear Mr B has very strong feelings about this complaint.  He has provided  detailed 
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Like the adjudicator  Ive seen insufficient  evidence that Mr B was cold called or pestered  into 
becoming a client  of London  Stone. I find that London Stones submission that Mr B 
downloaded an online  report,  and in doing so agreed to be contacted  by it, to be both 
plausible and persuasive. In coming  to this conclusion Ive had regard, amongst other things, 
to Mr Bs submission that he had been successful all [his] life in investments in stocks, 
shares and ISAs. 
Like the adjudicator  Ive seen insufficient  evidence that Mr B was promised returns of 6% to 
8% as he submits. All the documentary evidence that Ive seen makes  no reference  to a 
promised or guaranteed return and in fact often references a possible loss.
Mr B says that he asked  London Stone to sell all his investments, totalling  approximately 
£30,000, and remit the sale proceeds to him. But instead he was persuaded to accept the 
remittance of only £20,000 and for the balance of £10,000 to be invested in two safe stocks 
 Carillion Plc and Scottish  Mortgage Investment Trust.
Ref: DRN15872423First I find it hard to reconcile the above submission by Mr B with the trades posted through 
his account. Mr B says he was persuaded to accept the remittance of £20,000, instead of 
£30,000, and to invest £10,000  in two safe stocks.  But at the time London Stone sold some  
of Mr Bs investments (this being  between 15 and 19 September  2017)  in order to remit the 
£19,377 that it did, his investment in Carillion Plc had already  been made,  this being made 
on 4 September  2017.
Notwithstanding what I say above  Im simply not persuaded, given what both parties have 
said and submitted, that Mr B instructed the sale of all his investments and for the sale 
proceeds to be remitted to him. But even if I wasnt of this view I agree with London Stone 
that being persuaded to do something isnt the same as being pressured into doing 
something.
Mr B says London Stone couldnt  have  been  monitoring his two safe stocks because  of the 
fall in value both suffered between September 2017  and February  2018.  But just because  a 
stock falls in value doesnt make  any advice to buy and hold that stock  unsuitable, or a 
decision to buy and hold that stock unreasonable. 
Having considered what both parties  have said and submitted, Im satisfied that 
London Stones  decision  to buy and then hold Carillion Plc shares wasnt unreasonable.  
What I mean by this is that although  these  shares ultimately fell to zero in value this wasnt 
something that London Stone anticipated,  or in my view should have anticipated. On this 
point I accept that some commentators and investors  might  have anticipated  what  
happened, but equally a number of commentators and investors held the same  view as 
London Stone.
Furthermore even though  London Stone wasnt obliged to seek  Mr Bs instructions on 
whether to hold or sell these shares,  because of the discretionary mandate it held, it did so. 
And in response  to an email sent by London  Stone on 20 November 2017  Mr B responded 
to say, on 21 November,  hold [Carillion Plc] until it improves. Ive also seen no persuasive  
evidence that Mr B asked  for these shares  to be sold before they came worthless. Therefore, 
I cant see that London Stone did anything wrong in buying and then holding shares in 
Carillion Plc for the period  that it did.
Having considered what both parties  have said and submitted, Im satisfied that 
London Stones  decision  to buy and then hold Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust shares 
wasnt unreasonable. What I mean by this is that although these shares ultimately fell in 
value this wasnt something that London  Stone anticipated would be permanent.  Indeed its 
my understanding that these shares  recovered after Mr Bs holding  was sold to a price  
beyond which they were purchased at by London Stone.
I accept that on 2 February 2017  Mr B emailed London Stone to request his Scottish  
Mortgage Investment  Trust  holding  be sold,  a point in time when  it was trading at a higher 
price than 6 February  2018. But Im satisfied that London Stone was under no obligation to 
accept an email request  to sell and what Mr B should have done was phone  London Stone, 
something he has provided no evidence of having done. I would also point out that 
2 February was a Friday,  so the delay  in acting on Mr Bs email request to sell was only two 
trading days. Therefore, I cant  see that London  Stone  did anything wrong in buying  and 
then holding shares in Scottish Mortgage  Investment  Trust for the period that it did.
Ref: DRN15872424In summary  Im not persuaded that London  Stone cold called or pestered Mr B into 
becoming a client  of it, that it promised Mr B any sort of return  on his investment, or that it 
mismanaged that investment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my conclusions.  My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr B doesnt have to 
accept my decision and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
London Stone Securities  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1587242