K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  and then closed his accounts.  He also 
says Barclays unfairly  placed a Credit Industry  Fraud Avoidance  System  (CIFAS) marker 
against his name. He wants Barclays  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused.
Background
Mr A had personal and business accounts  with Barclays. This decision will focus on Mr As 
complaint regarding his personal accounts.  Mr As complaint about  his business accounts 
will be addressed in a separate decision.
On 23 October 2018, a payment of £5,900  was made into Mr As current  account, which he 
spent the following day. On 24 October 2018, Barclays  were contacted by another  bank  
which said their customer hadnt authorised  the payment of £5,900 into Mr As account and 
had been the victim of fraud.
Barclays decided to review Mr As accounts.  Whilst it completed its review it placed  a block  
on Mr As accounts. This meant Mr A wasnt  able to use his account. Following its review, 
Barclays decided to close Mr As accounts immediately. Barclays  also thought  Mr A had 
misused his account,  so it applied a CIFAS marker against Mr As name.
Barclays didnt ask Mr A any questions about the payment of £5,900 before making  the 
decision to close his accounts and apply the CIFAS  marker. Mr A complained to the bank 
and explained  that the money was paid into his account after hed sold a car which  hed 
advertised. And he said he had no idea that the funds were  fraudulent.
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong  when it reviewed Mr As accounts  and had 
completed the review  within four days. But based on what  Mr A had told them about the 
payment it agreed  to remove the marker around  14 November 2018. Barclays said Mr A was 
buying and selling cars and putting  the sales through his personal  account. So, hed 
breached the terms and conditions by using his personal account for business purposes
Mr A wasnt  happy with the banks response. He said buying and selling cars was just a 
hobby and wasnt  a business.  He also said because of the CIFAS marker  being applied he 
was forced  to resign as a director of his brothers company and lost out on a dividend 
payment of £10,000  he was expecting. And said his brothers business account  was also 
frozen because of the marker and it lost out on more than £20,000 profit.  Mr A says he had 
trouble opening accounts  with other banks, which were closed soon after hed opened them. 
And overall  Barclays actions had a detrimental  impact on his mental  health.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint. She thought Barclays  was unfair  when it 
applied the CIFAS marker. And said it hadnt carried out any investigation to make sure the 
marker was applied correctly. And said Barclays should pay Mr A £250 compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience the marker  caused  him. Barclays agreed.  Mr A didnt.  He said 
£250 doesnt reflect the amount of stress  and inconvenience hes suffered. He wants  £8,000, 
for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused. And £10,000 for the financial loss of missing out 
on a payment he says he was due from his brothers business.
Ref: DRN16888732My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure
Ill deal first of all with Barclays decision to restrict Mr As access  to his accounts. All banks in 
the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Banks  are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
business relationship. That sometimes means  banks need to review  and sometimes block  
customers accounts. 
Barclays blocked Mr As access to his accounts while it investigated  the concerns expressed 
to it by the other bank. Having looked at all the available information I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for Barclays to have acted in the way it did. Barclays 
explained that this was its standard  procedure and its in line with what  most banks would do 
in the same situation. And it enabled Barclays to consider how best react to the report it had 
received. So, I cant  say it has done  anything  wrong.  The terms and conditions of Mr As 
accounts also permit  Barclays  to review an account.  
Mr A has said Barclays took too long to complete its review. Barclays started its review on 
24 October 2018. I can see that following  this, Mr A contacted the bank and let them  know  
that the block was causing his mental  health to suffer. From looking at Barclays complaint 
notes, I can see Barclays reacted positively to what  Mr A told them  about how he was being 
affected and sped things up. It completed its review  on 31 October 2081, which was quicker 
than the usual 10 days banks usually take to complete a review. So, Im satisfied  that the 
bank completed the review of Mr As accounts  in a timely manner.  
I then turn to Barclays decision  to close Mr As accounts. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue  to provide 
banking facilities to a customer. Unless there is a very good reason  to do so, this service 
wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer  
who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case,  Barclays 
closed Mr As account immediately. In view that was reasonable given the concerns about 
how Mr A was operating  his account. I say this because from the evidence Ive seen  Mr A 
was using his personal account for business  purposes.
I can see that on 14 November 2018, Barclays told Mr A that it thought Mr A was using his 
account for business  purposes because he was buying  and selling cars through it. And that 
this was a breach of its terms and conditions. I note that Mr A told this service he considers 
this activity a hobby  and that cars are a long-standing passion of his. He explained to the 
investigator that hes traded in cars over the years and used to have a business account set 
up for this purpose. He told the investigator  he wasnt  running  a car sales business and 
pointed out that he doesnt  make much profit from selling cars. So, he says he didnt need a 
business account and believes Barclays treated him unfairly when they closed  his accounts 
without notice. 
Ref: DRN16888733The terms and conditions  of Mr As account  set out that Barclays  can close  an account 
without notice if we find out that you are not eligible  for it (for example, if you are using it for 
business purposes). Well try to tell you in advance if this happens, but if we were breaking 
any rules or laws by continuing  to offer you the account or service, we would have  to close 
or stop it immediately.
Ive looked at Mr As account statements and I can see that is appears he has been trading 
in cars from at least April 2018. The statements have car registration numbers and the 
makes of cars as references next to payments into the account. I can see that Mr A appears 
to have sold t least 9 cars between April and October 2018. Ive also kept in mind  that on 29 
October 2018, when  Mr A spoke to Barclays about  the block  to his account he told the bank 
I also buy and sell cars, I now cant  take payment from peopleI have lost 3 sales so far, 
this will effect my cash flow for months  to come. So, when I weigh everything up, Im 
satisfied that Mr A was using his personal  account  for business purposes.  And I cant say 
Barclays acted unfairly  when it decided to close Mr As accounts. 
CIFAS marker
Barclays says it applied  the CIFAS marker  because it received a report from another  bank 
said their customer  didnt  authorise the payment  made to her account. So, Ive looked at 
whether Barclays were fair to apply the marker,  based on the evidence it had, the 
investigation it carried out. And what  the rules say about applying such markers.
CIFAS principles say that members (such as Barclays)  should only record information of the 
type recorded against Mr As name  if there are reasonable grounds to believe that a financial 
crime has been committed  and that the evidence is such that the matter could be reported to 
the police. CIFAS guidance also says the business  must have carried  out checks of 
sufficient depth  to meet the burden of proof set by CIFAS. I havent seen any evidence that 
Barclays contacted  Mr A at the time and asked him for information  about the payment of 
£5,900 made to his account.  Form  looking at the evidence Barclays  didnt question  Mr A until 
14 November 2018, which was after it had applied the marker. And chose to rely solely on 
the report from the other bank to apply the marker.
Based on the evidence,  I think if Barclays had spoken to Mr A before applying  the marker, 
its likely  they wouldve been able to obtain  more information about  the payment. And Mr A 
wouldve had the opportunity to explain that the payment was for the sale of a car hed made 
recently, which was supported from the activity shown on his account and correspondence  
he had with the buyer. Mr A wouldve also been able to show that he had no reason to 
suspect the money  used  to buy the car he sold was fraudulent. So, in my view, there was 
insufficient evidence  to report the matter  to the police  and cause  to register  the marker. And I 
agree with the investigator that it was unfair of Barclays to apply the marker. 
Im pleased to see that after speaking to Mr A, Barclays removed the marker. But due to the 
time that has now passed the bank cant say when this was done.  Mr A also cant provide  
any information about when this is likely to have  occurred.  However,  Mr A has provided 
evidence of other banks  closing  accounts  hed opened between  6 and 9 November 2018, 
and that he managed to open  an account in January 2019. Ive also kept in mind that it 
normally takes between  4 and 8 weeks for a marker  to be removed. So, I think its likely  that 
the CIFAS marker had been  removed by at the latest January 2019.  
Ref: DRN16888734Mr A has written  comprehensively about  the impact of the CIFAS marker being  recorded.  I also 
note what Mr A says about how inconvenient and time consuming its been to sort this matter 
out. Mr A has provided evidence to show that after making at least four account applications the 
bank accounts  were closed. Ive noted that one of the banks Mr A tried to open an account with, 
let him know  about the CIFAS marker  and the how long it takes to be removed. Its standard 
procedure for banks to carry out checks following an application,  which includes checks  with 
credit reference agencies. So, I think its likely that the trouble Mr A experienced trying to open 
other bank  accounts  was because of the CIFAS  marker Barclays  recorded against him.
Mr A has told the investigator that the marker  being  applied impacted his mental  health.  Mr A 
hasnt provided  any medical evidence to support what  hes said.  Ive already said that 
Barclay reacted positively to how the review was impacting Mr A. I can also see that they 
provided Mr A with contact details  of mental health  support services at the time. So, I accept 
Mr A was caused distress  by what happened. But I note this happened whilst Mr As 
accounts were blocked, which the bank was entitled  to do. So, whilst I appreciate what  Mr A 
has said about his mental health, I think its more likely than not, it was the block  of his 
accounts, which impacted  his mental health. And not the CIFAS  marker being applied.  
I then turn to what Mr A says about  his financial losses.  Hes explained that prior to the marker 
being applied  he was a director of his brothers company. And was due to receive a dividend 
bonus of £10,000. Mr A says due to the marker  he had to resign from the company so hes now 
out of pocket. And all his hard work over the years for the company have now gone to waste.  
Mr A has also said that his brothers company accounts were frozen due to the marker against 
him which caused the company losses in excess of £20,000. But I cant make  an award for the 
impact had on a third party as part of this complaint. Ive also not seen any compelling evidence 
that Mr A lost out on £10,000, such as dividends  hed received in previous years,  or evidence  
that Mr As brothers company was financially in a position to be able to pay Mr A any amount.
From what  Mr A has said I dont doubt  that the marker recorded by Barclays  has impacted on 
him greatly.  So, I think Barclays should  pay him some compensation because they didnt carry 
out sufficient checks  before  applying the CIFAS marker. When  I consider the impact,  the 
marker had on Mr A, I think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in his individual  case.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays  Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr A £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by applying the CIFAS marker 
against Mr As name. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1688873