K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  that HSF Health  Plan Limited (HSF) mis-sold  her a health  cash 
plan in 2016.
background
Miss A bought  a health cash plan from HSF in 2016  when it sent one of its sales people to 
her place of work to run a presentation about its products. Miss A says that she was only 
given limited time by her employer to attend  the presentation  and that the sales  pitch was 
rushed. She says she was told where  to sign and not given the opportunity to read the 
details of the policy or application forms properly.
In 2018 Miss A had reason to make a claim under the plan after she went  to hospital  for an 
operation. She then submitted  a second claim for an additional  hospital  stay, following 
complications from her surgery. 
Upon receiving the two claims HSF contacted Miss A to say that she wasnt covered under 
the plan as she was claiming  for procedures  linked to pre-existing  medical  conditions.  It 
agreed to cover the cost of the first claim as a gesture of good will but not the second  claim. 
In addition it said it would need to reduce the level of cover provided by the plan in light of 
Miss As conditions, which it had been previously unaware of. It explained  that even though 
the cover  provided  by the plan would  now be extremely limited, the cost of plan,  which was 
just under £70 per month,  would remain the same. 
Miss A believes this is very unfair.  She has said repeatedly that if anyone  had explained  the 
exclusions around pre-existing  medical conditions she would have declared them 
immediately. She has also said that given the extraordinarily limited cover available to her 
under the policy,  had she understood  she wouldnt  have been able to claim under it she 
would never  have taken it out. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss As complaint already. He found that the 
information on the application  forms signed  by Miss A, regarding pre-existing medical 
conditions, was clearly  set out. He also found  that as HSF provides  health plans, as opposed 
to underwritten health insurance  policies,  the regulations allow  it to continue  to charge a 
considerable fee despite offering very little in the way of actual cover. For these reasons he 
didnt uphold  Miss As complaint and so she asked for an ombudsman to review it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am unable to uphold  
Miss As complaint and I would like to explain why.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Miss A and I believe her testimony when she says that 
she neither deliberately tried to hide her medical condition from HSF and that she genuinely 
didnt understand  that the policy contained  restrictions that related to her. However the test I 
have to apply  here is whether or not HSF provided Miss A with enough information, and 
time, for her to make  an informed choice  regarding the policy.  
Miss A has repeatedly said that her application  was fast tracked. HSF has confirmed that 
the paperwork Miss A filled out did have fast track printed across the top of it but denies this 
means its sales person  wouldnt  have  taken the time to explain the policy during the 2016 
Ref: DRN12454452presentation. Rather, it says fast track related to how the application would be processed  by 
HSF itself. While I accept HSFs  explanation of what it meant by fast track application, I also 
believe Miss As recollections  of how the policy was sold to her. 
However, the application form had to be signed  twice and on the second page, just above 
the box for the signature,  there  was a prominent  section for disclosing pre-existing medical 
conditions. And the conditions  Miss A has were  clearly marked within  this box. So, although I 
believe Miss A when she says the sales person didnt explain the policy  in full to her, it 
seems to me that the fact that some conditions would be excluded was clearly  referenced on 
one of the pages she signed. 
In addition to this HSF has also confirmed that it sent additional information to Miss A the 
day it processed her application (the day after she sat through the presentation).  This 
included the full terms and conditions of the policy, which clearly outline  that certain medical 
conditions would not be covered, including those which  Miss A had at the time.  There  was 
also a 14 day cooling off period which allowed Miss A to cancel the policy if she wanted to. 
Miss A has confirmed she received this information.
So, although  I believe Miss As recollections  on how the policy was presented and, the lack 
of verbal information  provided during the sales pitch,  I cant say that HSF failed to meet the 
minimum requirements in how it worded the application form, or the information it sent to her 
after the sale. And because I cant say HSF did anything wrong  in how it presented the 
information to Miss A I cant uphold her complaint on this basis. 
HSF has said it is happy to continue to provide some cover to Miss A  for the same  monthly  
fee. Miss A says she has no need for this cover, especially when it costs nearly £70 per 
month. As the cover  provided HSF isnt underwritten in the same way as an insurance policy  
is, its price isnt calculated in the same way either. As a cash  plan HSF is allowed to offer a 
plan, at a fixed  monthly  price, and that price  doesnt  have to reflect  whether or not the cover 
has restrictions placed on it. So I cant say HSF were  wrong  when it offered the reduced 
cover to Miss A at the same price. And so I cant uphold her complaint on this point either.  
It is worth noting that HSF covered the first of Miss As claims in 2018 despite not being 
legally obliged to. And it has offered to provide her with unrestricted cover  in the future 
should her medical  conditions change.  However I do understand why this has been such  an 
upsetting and frustrating experience for Miss A and I am sorry we couldnt do more  to help 
her with this matter. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245445