K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2009. Miss J says Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss J says that she was not aware that the PPI was optional   but I think  Santander made it 
clear that Miss J didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was over ten years ago.
I say this because  Santander has provided  a copy of Miss Js credit card application and I 
can see on this that PPI is presented as an optional product. Miss J has also signed to select  
it  separately from her signature agreeing to the card.
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss J got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss J about that. Because Santander didnt tell Miss J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss J has said - including  what  shes  said about being  self-
employed when  she took out the policy. Some PPI policies had terms that made  it more  
difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim than for someone who was employed. 
But looking  at the terms of Miss Js policy, I can see this wasnt  the case  for the PPI policy  
she was sold. So this point doesnt  change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN15326462my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss J any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1532646