K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) turned 
down their claim for a lost pair of diamond earrings. Theyre  also unhappy with the way their 
claim was handled.  
background 
Mr and Mrs A said theyd  held contents insurance policies with LV since 2011.  Theyd  listed  
a series of valuable items on their policies, including a pair of diamond earrings. They said 
they cancelled  their policy with LV when they moved  to live abroad for two years.  And said 
they took out other insurance for that period. Several months after returning  to live in the UK, 
Mr and Mrs A took out insurance with LV again. And listed the diamond earrings on their 
policy, together with several other  high value items. 
Mr and Mrs A said shortly  before  moving house in April 2018, Mrs A realised she couldnt 
find her diamond earrings. They said when not being worn, the earrings were usually kept in 
a jewellery tray or pot, on top of a chest of drawers in Mr and Mrs As bedroom.  
Mr and Mrs A said they undertook an extensive search of their house,  including  checking 
bins, sink u-bends and a septic tank,  but couldnt  find the earrings. They  also said that as 
they were in the process of moving home, they hoped the earrings  would be found once 
theyd unpacked  all of their belongings. 
In June 2018, Mr A called LV to advise that the earrings had been  lost and to make a claim 
against his policy.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  report the loss to the police at the time they found the earrings were 
missing  they later reported this after being instructed to do so by LV. Mr A said the 
earrings were lost shortly before a removal company entered  the house, but he said they 
were packing large pieces  of furniture, not valuables,  and werent left unattended.  Mr A said 
he didnt consider it a possibility  that the removal  company could have found and then stolen 
the earrings. He said he expected the earrings to turn up amongst his familys packed 
belongings at their new house, so he didnt  make a police report. 
Mr A said LV initially  discussed  the options  for replacing the earrings with him. However, 
LVs Crime  Prevention team later investigated  the loss further  and declined  the claim.  
LV said it wasnt satisfied that a loss would have  been possible in the circumstances 
Mr and Mrs A had presented. It also said there was a delay in Mr and Mrs A reporting their 
loss, and discrepancies  in their testimonies. 
Mr A challenged LVs position  on the claim.  He said that Mrs A was out in a shopping centre 
with one of their children  when she took a call from LVs Crime Prevention Team  and was 
under time pressure.  He said during this call, Mrs A was explaining her usual routine. He 
said she couldnt be sure of what she did, or if she followed  her usual routine when the 
earrings were lost. 
Mr A clarified some other information and said Mrs A had made a mistake when explaining 
the height of the chest of drawers.  He offered to send a photo demonstrating that this was of 
a lower height than shed  said.  Mr A also said that hed had cover for the earrings as part of 
his home  contents  insurance since 2011.
Ref: DRN15348832LV responded reiterating that the claim  was declined and giving some further detail around 
the discrepancies it said it had identified in Mr and Mrs As testimony. 
Mr A complained and said he felt LV was accusing him and his wife of lying. LV said itd 
reviewed the claim investigation,  but was still unable to cover  the claim.  Mr A said he asked 
LV if he could discuss his case  with the person handling his complaint, but he said LV 
declined. 
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said: 
Although I understand Mr and Mrs A feel strongly that LV has accused them of making a 
false claim, I must  point  out that LV hasnt  made  an allegation of fraud. LV asked a series of 
questions when assessing the claim and I dont think  this was unreasonable.  An insurer  is 
entitled to do this to establish that the claim is valid and covered under the policy.
Also Im aware  that Mr A is unhappy that LVs complaint handler  didnt  discuss  his complaint 
with him over the phone.  Possibly LV should have  done this, but I dont think  it would 
necessarily have made any difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
When turning down Mr and Mrs As claim, LV said it wasnt  satisfied  that a loss had taken 
place and gave  a number of reasons for this. Ive considered each of the main points.
Inconsistencies in Mr and Mrs As testimony about  when they discovered the loss 
Ive listened to recordings of the calls that took place  between LV and Mr and Mrs A. 
In his original call to LV to report the loss, Mr A said that Mrs A discovered  the earrings were  
lost on Wednesday 28 March. He said he thought the last time Mrs A remembered having  
the earrings was on Monday 26 March. 
The following  day, Mr A spoke to LV again, this time with Mrs A also on the call. In this call 
Mrs A said she thought she was last wearing the earrings on Monday 26 March.  She said 
she didnt recall exactly what happened, but on Wednesday 28 March,  the earrings  werent 
where she would usually have left them. 
Around seven  weeks later,  Mrs A received a call from LVs Crime Prevention Team  during 
which she was asked  further questions about  the loss. In this call Mrs A said she 
remembered wearing the earrings on Monday 26 March. She said she first realised  they 
were missing on Tuesday  (27 March). 
During the first two calls, Mr and Mrs A both stated that the earrings  were  found missing on 
Wednesday. In the third call, Mrs A said shed  found the earrings were missing on Tuesday. 
It seems  LV has placed  a lot of weight on the discrepancy in Mrs As testimony around when 
she realised her earrings were lost. 
Having listened  to the call LVs Crime Prevention  Team  made  to Mrs A to ask further 
questions, its clear to me that Mrs A wasnt expecting the call. She was out shopping and 
had one of her young children in her care. I dont  think it was possible for Mrs A to give her 
full attention to the call in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN15348833Mrs A asked if LV could  call back later. LVs member of staff said he was unavailable that 
afternoon, so would  have to reschedule the call for the following week.  Mrs A said she would 
try to continue with the call and would see if she could  manage.  I appreciate that Mrs A 
agreed to continue with the call. However, LVs member of staff knew  he planned  to ask 
Mrs A specific questions, and for precise  dates and times. And he would have been aware it 
was important that she was able to concentrate on the conversation fully in order  to answer 
the questions  accurately.  So I think he should have rescheduled the call. In failing to do so 
I think LV unfairly disadvantaged Mrs A. 
Taking into account the consistent information  provided by Mr and Mrs A during the first two 
calls, I think its most likely that the discrepancies  in what Mrs A said during  the call with LVs 
Crime Prevention Team  were mistakes due to her being distracted at the time of the call. 
And as Ive said, it wasnt fair for LV to continue with its investigation  call knowing  that Mrs A 
might be unable to concentrate on the questions. Because of this, I dont think  any 
discrepancies in dates and times arising  from the call with LVs Crime Prevention  Team were 
a valid reason for turning  down the claim. 
Its unlikely that the earrings  could  have been  removed from the house by one of 
Mr and Mrs As young children 
I agree  that this scenario  seems unlikely  although  not impossible. Ive seen photographs  of 
the jewellery tray and pot, and the pieces of furniture. Taking into account  the height  and 
design of the chest of drawers, I think it would be possible for a toddler  to have climbed up to 
reach the earrings  if they were in the jewellery  tray or pot. However, what  I think  is more 
important here is that Mr and Mrs A didnt say this was what happened to cause the loss of 
the earrings. Its clear to me from what Mr and Mrs A have both said that they dont know 
exactly how the earrings  came to be lost. 
LV seems  to have  placed considerable weight on how unlikely it finds the scenario  described 
by Mrs A involving one of her children. I think this is unfair.  Mrs A gave this example to LV 
after it questioned  why she had searched  the house  so thoroughly. Its clear from what  Mrs A 
said that she wasnt describing exactly what had happened, but rather  a possibility.  
LVs letter used words like possibility and hypothesis when talking about this loss scenario, 
which shows me it knew and understood that Mrs As explanation was a possibility only. So 
it seems unfair to me that LV has cited the unlikelihood  of this particular scenario having  
taken place, as a reason for turning down  the claim.
The earrings would  easily  have been found  in the surrounding area if theyd fallen from the 
jewellery tray 
LV said that if the earrings had fallen  from the tray where they were kept, theyd have  landed  
on the chest of drawers  or the carpeted  floor below. I agree  this is most likely. However, 
Mr and Mrs A had told LV that the jewellery  tray or pot on top of the chest of drawers was 
the place where  the earrings were usually  kept when not being worn. 
During LVs original call with Mrs A, she explained  that she wasnt certain about whether or 
not shed put the earrings in their usual place, or whether shed put them somewhere else.  
And she said that she couldnt remember.  
Ref: DRN15348834In its letter  to Mr and Mrs A turning down their claim, LV said itd considered  the possibility 
that Mrs A left the earrings somewhere other  than in the jewellery tray. However Im not 
convinced that it has. LV said it couldnt be satisfied that Mrs A might have left her earrings 
somewhere other than in her jewellery tray because of the discrepancies it had identified  in 
her testimony. Ive already explained  why I dont think these discrepancies were a valid 
reason for turning  down  the claim.
LV discounted the element of Mrs As testimony around her being unsure of where she left 
her earrings. It focused on how unlikely it found  the possibility that one of the children 
removed the earrings from the jewellery tray and from the house. I dont think  this is a fair or 
reasonable position for LV to take. In focussing  on only one possible scenario for the loss, 
LV has demonstrated  why it thinks its unlikely that the loss occurred. However there were 
other possible explanations for how the loss could have  taken  place, so I dont think this is 
a valid reason for turning  down the claim.
There was a delay  in Mr and Mrs A contacting LV to report the loss 
Mr A reported the loss of the earrings  to LV around  two months  after he and Mrs A said they 
found the earrings were  missing. I can understand that LV would find this potentially  
suspicious and would  want  to investigate the circumstances further.
Mr A said that he didnt contact LV sooner for several reasons, but mainly this was because 
Mr and Mrs A hoped the earrings would be found. They said the earrings were lost in the 
days leading  up to them moving house,  when  all of their possessions were  being packed up, 
and initially  they expected  to find the earrings once  theyd unpacked everything.  I think this 
explanation is plausible, so I dont think it was a valid reason for LV to turn down the claim. 
Other points listed by LV
When turning down the claim, LV said that the policy was taken out just over two months  
before Mr and Mrs A said the loss took place.  Also it said that the earrings were the most 
expensive item listed  on the policy. LV has given no explanation in its letter  as to why its 
made these  statements.  And as mentioned  previously,  LV hasnt made an allegation of 
fraud. As such, without understanding more about  LVs reasoning for making  these 
statements, Im unable  to determine that these are valid reasons for LV to turn down the 
claim. 
Overall I dont think LV has done enough to justify why its turned down the claim. And its 
handling of the claim  should also have been much  better. The investigation  call conducted  
while Mrs A was in a public place with a young  child in her care shouldnt have gone ahead. 
And the discrepancies LV believes it identified during that call appear to have led to the 
claim being unfairly turned down. I think this has caused a considerable amount of distress  
and inconvenience  to Mr and Mrs A. 
I intend to require LV to pay Mr and Mrs As claim  in line with the terms of the policy, plus 
£250 in compensation. 
response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs A responded confirming they had nothing further to add. 
Ref: DRN15348835LV didnt accept  the provisional  decision.  It made  a lengthy submission, but didnt raise 
anything new. Ive summarised LVs comments below.
LV said it disagreed that its crime prevention team shouldnt have gone ahead  with the call 
to Mrs A. And maintained its stance on the discrepancies it said it had identified. It said it 
should only rely on the account from Mrs A as the owner of the earrings, and reiterated what 
she had said during the call with the crime prevention team.  It also said it could see no 
reason as to why Mrs A would have left her earrings anywhere  other  than in her jewellery 
tray and said Mrs A had offered no other location.
Also LV said again that it believed the time window for the loss was narrow. And with only 
Mrs A and her one year old in the house, it didnt think  the loss was possible. 
It said it remained concerned by the delay in Mr and Mrs A reporting the loss. And said it 
saw no reason for Mr and Mrs A to continue  to look for the earrings at their new address. 
And LV said several times that Mr and Mrs A had been uninsured  for a period of three years 
before the start date of the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed LVs response  to my provisional  decision, Ill cover what  I believe to be the 
main points. 
My position  remains unchanged in that I think LV should not have continued with the call 
from the crime prevention  team to Mrs A. LV said Mrs A agreed to take the call, but given 
her circumstances at the time and LV knowing the importance of the questions  it needed to 
ask, I still think  LV unfairly disadvantaged Mrs A in continuing. As I said previously,  
Mr and Mrs A provided consistent information during the initial  calls,  so this is the testimony 
that I think can be relied upon. 
I agree  with LV that Mrs As testimony is the most important, as she owned the earrings. So 
I placed most reliance  on what  Mrs A said during her first call with LV, as opposed to the 
later call with LVs crime prevention team. Ive already established why I think the later call 
shouldnt have gone ahead in the way that it did.
Ive thought about what LV has said around  where  the earrings were left. It said it could see 
no reason why Mrs A would have left the earrings in another  location,  and said Mrs A had 
not suggested a location. I find this unreasonable  I think there could be multiple reasons as 
to why the earrings may have been  left in another location, such as by mistake, through 
tiredness or distraction  etc. And Mrs A had referred to searching all over the house. I find it 
quite likely that Mrs A may have  left her earrings  in another location by mistake,  and that she 
simply cant remember. 
LV again  stated the unlikelihood of a loss scenario involving one of Mrs As children, and 
pinpointed the loss to a short window of time. I previously explained why I dont think  it was 
fair of LV to place  so much weight on a scenario which  it knew  Mr and Mrs A had presented 
as hypothetical  only. LVs comments havent changed my mind  about this. 
Ref: DRN15348836Also LV raised again its doubts over the delay in Mr and Mrs A reporting the loss and their 
reasons for this. It said it couldnt  be satisfied that the earrings had not been lost before the 
start of the policy. And it said Mr and Mrs A had been uninsured for the preceding three  
years. I think what LV is referring to here is tantamount to fraud, but that isnt an allegation 
its made. 
In my provisional decision I said I accepted Mr and Mrs As reasons for the delay and my 
opinion on this hasnt  changed. As Mrs A had said she couldnt remember  exactly  where she 
had left the earrings, I think  it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to assume  they may have 
been packed with other  belongings in preparation  for their house move. 
I note that Mr A advised LV that he and his family  had lived overseas for a period of time,  
and had been insured  by another provider during that time  he also offered to give evidence  
of this to LV. So I think LV is incorrect  to say that Mr and Mrs A had been  uninsured  for three 
years prior to taking  out the policy. Mr A said he was without contents insurance for around  
eight months. 
Having reviewed all of LVs comments,  Ive seen nothing which changes my mind. My final 
decision therefore remains as outlined in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following:
settle Mr and Mrs As claim in line with the terms of the policy;
pay interest at 8% simple  on the total settlement  amount  (if this is a cash  settlement) 
from the original date of the claim to the date the settlement is paid;
and pay £250  compensation  to Mr and Mrs A for distress  and inconvenience.
If LV considers it should  deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it may 
do so, but it should give Mr and Mrs A the necessary certificate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1534883