K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  because  Society of Lloyds  wont  settle his building  warranty  claim.
background
Mr W bought a new build flat. A building warranty policy came alongside the flat. The policy 
was provided by syndicate at Society  of Lloyds1. The policy was initially  sold to the 
developer, and the cover provided by it passed  to Mr W when he bought the flat.
Over the years there have  been numerous  problems that have affected the block.  That has 
led to claims under  the policy  and to legal action  (which  Mr W isnt part of). Mr W has sought 
various information and has made various complaints against the different parties involved, 
some of which have previously been addressed  by Lloyds and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
One issue for Mr W is that Lloyds didnt  ensure  that a completion  certificate  was issued prior 
to it providing the insurance. One of my colleagues  has already decided that issue, so thats 
not something Im going to re-visit. However, the main part of this complaint   that Lloyds 
wont deal with a claim Mr W wishes to make  for there  not being a valid completion  
certificate or for fraud/deception committed by the developer  stems from that.
Our investigator discussed  the complaint with Mr W and confirmed it essentially concerned 
the fact that in Mr Ws view he had a policy that meant he could individually claim for the 
condition of the building and the deception  that had taken place by the developer  regarding  
the completion certificate. He also said he didnt receive his policy  documents when  the 
warranty started, and that Lloyds hadnt responded to his further points.
Our investigator provided Mr W with his assessment on the various points made.  In 
summary, he:
said the policy didnt  cover Mr W for the claim he wanted to make; he might  have a claim 
for his portion  of the common parts claim, but it was outside of our remit to discuss that;
said it wasnt Lloyds responsibility to provide Mr W with the policy documents;
commented on the points Mr W felt Lloyds hadnt addressed, namely
oit was understandable  that the third party claims handler couldnt discuss 
progress on the claim  given the ongoing  legal action
oits fair for Lloyds  to not settle the claim as its not covered by the policy (as 
above)
othere was nothing untoward  about the missing policy certificates
oany issues with the property management company were outside  of our remit
oits understood that Mr W didnt want to pursue  a bathroom claim further; his main  
concern was the individual  claim mentioned above
othe sum insured on the warranty was the responsibility of the conveyancing 
solicitor
odata protection  issues prevented us from finding out whether Lloyds is the 
developers liability  insurer.
Mr W remained of the view that he could  individually claim under the policy  for an incomplete 
building due to deception and fraud on the part of the developer. He also said this was 
1 For ease, I will refer to the syndicate  and Society of Lloyds simply  as Lloyds.
Ref: DRN17364882because a completion certificate  hadnt been completed,  and Society  of Lloyds should take 
some responsibility for this too. He also felt there  was some  deception  on the part of Lloyds 
regarding the policy  he felt it had changed  it as its gone along.
Our investigator arranged  for the complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  He spoke to 
Mr W, who confirmed  his concerns were whether he had a claim for an incomplete building 
and whether the terms of the cover  provided  by the policy had changed from the start.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
policy documents
This type of policy isnt sold to individual consumers. Instead  theyre  sold to builders or 
developers and passed on to consumers when they buy the property. So the initial  sale here 
was between Lloyds  and the developer. It was therefore up to the developer to provide 
Mr W with the relevant policy documentation  as part of the overall sales process  when he 
bought the flat. Lloyds  wasnt involved in that.
If he wasnt provided with the relevant documents, I think  thats an issue between  Mr W and 
the developer  or the solicitor he used when he bought the flat (if, for example, he feels  the 
solicitor ought to have  made sure the documents were obtained). I dont think theres 
anything more for Lloyds  to do.
I know Mr W has concerns over the policy documentation (eg names  of the policyholders,  
start dates),  but I havent seen anything which suggests, or persuades me, that anything 
untoward has happened as far as him being  insured. As far as I can tell, Mr W has been fully 
insured by the warranty (subject obviously to the terms  and conditions)  since  he bought  the 
flat. I havent  seen anything which persuades me that the terms of the policy  have changed.
policy cover
There are four main  parts to the cover  provided by the warranty:
1.during the construction  period (ie when the building  is being built)  insurance is provided 
for any deposit paid or any additional  costs  incurred  if the building doesnt get completed 
due to insolvency of or fraud by the developer.
2.during the first two years from the date the building is completed  the developer is 
responsible for fixing any defects;  insurance is provided if the developer  refuses to fix a 
defect and/or fails to do so because of insolvency.
3.for the next eight years after the expiry of the two year period under 2 above  
insurance is provided for things  like major  damage, ingress  of water  and defects  in the 
drains.
4.in the same eight  year period   insurance  is provided for the land.
In my opinion, none of these parts cover the type of claim that Mr W wants to make.  The first 
part does refer to fraud  by the developer, but the policy only provides cover  if the developer 
doesnt start work  or if they dont finish the build once its started. Although I appreciate the 
arguments about a valid completion  certificate  not being issued, the developer did complete 
Ref: DRN17364883the building. So I dont think Society of Lloyds treated Mr W unfairly by not considering or 
settling Mr Ws claim.
Lloyds acknowledges  that Mr W has his own policy  and that hes able to make an individual 
claim under it. But it points to the fact that the problems with the building are to the common  
parts. That effectively means  all leaseholders will be party to the insurance claim  whether 
they lodge their claims individually or together. At the time Lloyds issued its final response to 
Mr Ws complaint  (which  I accept was two years  ago), it was attempting to prepare  a 
schedule of the repair works needed in order to consider  a claim settlement. However,  that 
was still subject to the legal  action  being  pursued  by the other  leaseholders.
Its not clear to me what the current position  is with the repairs  or the legal action. But 
although Mr W might be entitled to some sort of settlement  under  an individual  claim,  as any 
settlement will be affected by both the outcome of the legal action and the schedule  of repair  
works, I dont think it was unfair of Lloyds to hold back on that until both were  finalised. So, 
at the time Lloyds  issued its final response to this complaint, I dont think it treated Mr W 
unfairly by refusing to settle  any individual  claim he might have.
the common parts claim
Im aware that Mr W might have  various  concerns, questions and/or complaints regarding 
the claim for the common  parts.  As that claim affects  all the leaseholders Im unable to 
address any of those  concerns here. If Mr W wants the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
investigate any complaint regarding the common parts claim he will need to register a 
separate complaint, and all the leaseholders will have to consent  to us investigating the 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1736488