K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited  didnt deal properly with a 
claim he made on his motor insurance  policy. Any references in this decision to Southern 
Rock include its agents.
 
background
Mr M told Southern Rock his car was vandalised  in April 2018. Southern Rock instructed  an 
independent engineer to assess the damage. In his report dated 8 May 2018,  the engineer 
said the car was a write-off, given its value and the estimated cost of the repairs.  He also 
said that the damage wasnt  consistent with a vandalism  claim. 
On 11 May 2018 Southern Rock told Mr M it would  pay him the pre-accident market value of 
his car. A week later, it decided it needed to see invoices for the repairs that were carried  out 
after previous vandalism claims.  On those claims, Mr M had been  paid cash  in lieu of repairs  
by one of Southern Rocks approved repairers.   
Southern Rock wasnt happy with the invoices Mr M produced. It said it wasnt  clear that the 
previous vandalism damage had been  repaired.  It thought some  of the new damage was on 
the same  parts  of the car as the old damage. Southern Rock said it couldnt  move the claim 
forward until Mr M provided  invoices for the previous repairs that were acceptable to it.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. He thought Southern Rock should 
reconsider the claim and make a decision.  He said if there were  doubts about the current  
claims validity, they should be addressed. He didnt think it was fair to rely on concerns 
arising from previous  claims. Southern Rock said it couldnt be expected to pay out more 
than once for the same damage. It said it hadnt declined  the current claim, but still required 
proper invoices from Mr M. Southern  Rock  also said if it had to pay the claim, it would 
reconsider the previous claims.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Southern Rock chose to pay Mr M cash in lieu of repairs  following the previous vandalism 
claims. I think  it was entitled  to make that choice, rather than carry out repairs,  under the 
terms of the policy.  But  theres nothing in the policy to say how a consumer  should  use a 
cash in lieu payment. I think consumers are free to use payments given in lieu of repairs  to 
have repairs done  by a garage  of their choice.  I think  they can also choose  to repair the 
damage themselves,  or even leave it as it is. 
Southern Rock hasnt shown that it required Mr M to have the work done and provide 
acceptable invoices  to it. Mr M says he chose  to have the repairs  carried  out by a local 
repairer, but that Southern Rock  didnt ask about  it at the time. He says it based the cash 
sums it gave  him on its own engineers estimates.
The documents Mr M supplied to Southern  Rock  recently were from a car valeting service 
that he says referred  the previous repair work  on to a garage. He later supplied  invoices 
Ref: DRN19475042from the garage as well. The documents only show the overall cost of the work  - and 
Southern Rock was concerned that the format they were produced  in is open to amendment. 
I think Southern  Rocks  concerns may have been  reasonable  had the invoices been relevant  
to the current claim. But I dont think they are. In the absence  of an agreement  with Southern 
Rock that Mr M would have the repairs done, I dont  think he was obliged  to do so. I think  it 
follows that he wasnt obliged to supply invoices it found acceptable, either then or now.  
Southern Rock has concerns about the current claim as the independent engineer  said the 
damage seemed  suspicious  and wasnt  consistent with a genuine vandalism  claim.  But he 
didnt say why. In addition, in its instruction to the engineer, Southern  Rock  had asked him to 
confirm that the previous damage to the car had been repaired. The engineer didnt 
comment on that in his report.
I think it would have  been reasonable for Southern  Rock to ask the independent engineer  to 
clarify his remark  about the current claim  and to comment on previous repair  work. I dont 
think Southern  Rock should have  to pay for the same damage twice. But at the moment  I 
dont think it has shown  that its being asked  to do that. We asked Southern Rock if it had 
consulted the independent engineer again.  It said it hadnt done  so, as it was waiting for 
acceptable invoices  for previous repairs from Mr M.  
I dont think its reasonable for Southern Rock to not move the current  claim forward  and 
make a decision on it due to concerns about previous claims. I think it should reconsider the 
current claim and make  a decision based  on the facts around that claim and the policys 
terms and conditions. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require Southern Rock Insurance  
Services Limited to reconsider Mr Ms current claim and make  a decision in line with policy 
terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1947504