K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Ms M (the policyholders)  complain  that The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited didnt pay them  enough when they surrendered their mortgage endowment policy. 
background
In February 2019,  Ms M called Prudential about  surrendering their mortgage  endowment  
policy. Prudential told her the current surrender value was £28,976.08. It said the value 
wasnt guaranteed  and might change on a daily basis. Ms M asked about the surrender 
process. Prudential ran through this, and then Ms M said theyd like to go ahead with the 
surrender. Prudential arranged to send  out the relevant forms and explained  that, once the 
request was processed, the policyholders  wouldnt be able to change their minds. 
After returning  the required  documents, the policyholders received a letter  in early 
March 2019 saying the policy had been cashed in and £26,078.03  had been paid into their 
chosen account. Ms M called in and disputed  the payment value.  She said they were  
expecting £28,976.08  and although shed understood that the value could change, shed 
thought this only applied if they didnt request the surrender  during  the call and then asked to 
surrender at a later date. 
Ms M asked Prudential to listen to the initial call and pay the difference between  the 
surrender value it had paid and the value it quoted during the call. Prudential  explained  it 
couldnt do this right away, but agreed that Ms M could call back  the next working day. When 
Ms M did this, the person  shed previously spoken  to had left for the day. The new call 
handler said it might take a while longer  for Prudential to respond; and also said the value 
given during the surrender call would be payable. 
A few days  later, Prudential sent its final response.  This said Ms M had been advised that 
the value might change, and the policyholders had correctly been paid the surrender value 
which applied on the date the claim form had been received. Prudential said it had been 
incorrect to tell Ms M that the initial quotation  value was payable during her most recent call. 
It offered  £200 compensation  for this. Prudential  also refunded  a direct debit which  had been  
taken just before the surrender went through.
The policyholders then referred the matter to our service. Our investigator questioned 
Prudential about  the extent of the change in value, it being nearly £3,000. Prudential told him 
it was because Mr Ws date of birth had been recorded incorrectly during the sale  and this 
only came  to light when  he provided  proof of identity during the surrender process.
Our investigator didnt  think Prudential  was responsible for the error with Mr Ws date of 
birth, as the policy had been  sold by another party. And he thought Prudential was within  its 
rights to adjust the surrender value to reflect this. But the investigator did feel Prudential  
shouldve let the policyholders know about this adjustment before processing their surrender. 
As it didnt,  they lost the opportunity not to proceed. The investigator said he couldnt know  
what the policyholders wouldve done if theyd been  told about the adjustment, but he felt 
Prudential should  pay them a further £400 compensation, i.e. a total of £600.
Prudential didnt accept  this outcome. It said it wasnt  responsible  for the error with the date 
of birth  and pointed  out that it wouldve taken some time for the benefits to grow to the 
level originally quoted due to the age discrepancy. Prudential  said it would offer a further 
£200 for the loss of expectation,  but wouldnt agree to a further £400.
Ref: DRN10500212The policyholders also didnt accept this outcome. They  said they werent  told that the 
surrender value had been  adjusted due to Mr Ws age until we got involved. And they 
queried why this affected the value. They also said the £200 Prudential  had initially offered 
should be considered separately, as that was specifically for the call.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached  and for largely the same reasons. 
Ive first considered whether Prudential made any substantive mistakes in its application of 
the policy terms and conditions. And I dont think it did. Although I understand why there was 
some confusion, Im conscious that Prudential  did explain the following  during the initial call:
The value today  is not guaranteed  and may change  on a daily basis
Its important to note that, once weve processed  your request, you cant change 
your mind
The policyholders were then sent forms to complete, and Prudential  wouldnt have been able 
to process the surrender until and unless  these were returned.  So Im satisfied that 
Prudential didnt guarantee  the value. It was made clear that the value could change on a 
daily basis until the process had completed. And this process was dependent  on the 
policyholders returning  the forms. Accordingly, I dont think  Prudential  gave incorrect  advice 
about  or misapplied  the terms and conditions of the contract.  And that means its liability  
to pay compensation  is necessarily limited.
That said,  the main  reason  for the significant  change in value wasnt because of the daily 
fluctuations Ms M was warned about. It was because the valuation  was based  on incorrect 
information  i.e. Mr Ws date of birth. But I cant reasonably hold Prudential at fault for this. 
The sale was conducted by another party, and I havent seen anything which persuades  me 
that Prudential  was responsible for the sellers acts or omissions or should otherwise have 
been aware of the error at an earlier date. 
I know the policyholders  dont  feel the error with the date of birth should affect the surrender 
value. But Im satisfied  with the explanation  Prudential has given for why in fact it does.  The 
policy contained both an investment and life cover element,  with the policyholders  premium  
being split between the two. If Prudential had known that Mr W was around six years older 
than initially represented  to it by or on behalf of the policyholders,  more of the premium 
wouldve gone towards the life cover to reflect the additional risk  leaving less to be 
invested. Prudential  is within  its contractual rights to make an adjustment  for this. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect it pay out a higher value because it wasnt  responsible for the incorrect  
information at proposal.  
Ref: DRN10500213However, whilst  Prudential  didnt  make a mistake  with regard  to the sale or application of the 
contract, I dont consider its actions to be wholly without error. The adjustment for Mr Ws 
age was a substantial change which went beyond what Ms M was warned about  during the 
call. So Im not satisfied  it was reasonable for Prudential to proceed with the surrender 
without letting the policyholders know about the change. And Prudential has already 
admitted that it gave  Ms M incorrect information during one of the calls.  Nevertheless, it 
seems to me that the reasonably foreseeable consequences of those  errors  are limited to 
distress and inconvenience rather than actual financial loss (which  is unproven  and too 
remote from the wrongful  acts or omissions). 
The question is, what wouldve happened but for these  errors? Its important to bear in mind  
that the policyholders  would never have been contractually entitled to the higher  amount 
quoted; and they didnt  change their position to their detriment in reliance on that information 
 which  is why I cant reasonably instruct Prudential to make another  payment  to bring the 
surrender value up to this level. Instead, Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if 
the policyholders  had been told about  the adjustment  after submitting their forms.
As our investigator has pointed out, its difficult to determine  in hindsight what  course of 
action the policyholders  wouldve taken.  I take on board  Prudentials  point that it wouldve 
taken some time for the benefits to reach the quoted level given  the age adjustment.  And Im 
conscious that the policyholders actively approached Prudential about  surrendering  the 
policy. On balance, I dont  judge  it likely that they wouldve stopped the process. Im also 
conscious that Prudential wasnt in a position to know about the adjustment  until it received 
Mr Ws proof of identity.  So the policyholders wouldve always  experienced some 
disappointment when they found out about the adjustment.
Thats not to say Prudentials errors didnt have an impact on the policyholders. Prudentials  
failure to tell them about the adjustment at the time meant they lost the opportunity to weigh 
up their choices and make an informed decision.  Even though I consider it unlikely that the 
policyholders wouldve  reached a different decision,  their feelings about the situation 
wouldve been improved  if theyd been  given a choice.  So the policyholders  did suffer undue  
distress and inconvenience as a result  of how Prudential handled this situation. The impact 
of the error was heightened by Prudentials failure  to adequately explain why the valuation  
had changed so much. The policyholders were  left confused about this until our service got 
involved. Ms M was also given a false expectation  when she was told that the original 
quotation would be paid out during one of her complaint calls  causing disappointment 
when this turned out to be incorrect. 
Ive considered what level of compensation is fair in the circumstances. Although  the 
policyholders dont want us to take into account  Prudentials previous offer,  our services 
approach  in the context of compensation for non-financial,  emotional  harm  is to think 
holistically about the overall impact  of any errors.  Taking  everything  into account, I consider  
that Prudential  should pay the policyholders  a total of £600 compensation (i.e. including  the 
amount theyve already received). Im satisfied  this fairly reflects the distress  and 
inconvenience the policyholders  suffered  because of Prudentials errors  and is in line with 
the sort of compensation weve previously  awarded in similar cases. 
Ref: DRN10500214my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I require The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited  to pay the policyholders £400  compensation  in addition to the £200 
compensation its already paid; in other words, a total of £600. The sum owing should be 
paid within  28 days of Prudential being  notified by us of the policyholders  acceptance of my 
decision, failing which interest will accrue at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of 
decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the policyholders  
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2019.
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1050021