K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Leek United Building  Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance policy.
background
Mr H was sold the PPI at the same time as arranging his mortgage  in July 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs mortgage  application form. Mr H was asked if he required a quote 
for PPI, to which he answered yes. There was also a separate PPI application form. From 
the wording and layout of the forms, I consider that Mr H would have known that he had a 
choice about buying the policy.  And in fact Mr H hasnt  complained  that he didnt know  he 
had the policy;  his complaint is that he was sold a policy that he didnt need.
Mr H says that Leek United BS advised him to buy the policy, whereas  Leek  United BS says 
that it was a non-advised sale. From the available information, its difficult  to tell whether  
Leek United BS advised him or not. But this doesnt  make a difference  to my decision. If 
Leek United BS recommend  the policy to Mr H, then it needed to ensure  that it met his 
needs. And from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, the policy  was suitable for 
him.
Mr H cant remember  what sick pay he may have received  from his employer at the time. But 
regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially 
for longer than Mr H would have received full pay for. Mr H also couldnt remember  what  
level of savings he may have had at the time. Again, regardless of this, having  the policy 
would have allowed  him to retain any savings or to use them  to cover  other outgoings  at 
what would  have been a difficult time. 
The mortgage application form records that Mr H had an income protection policy. But this 
provided a benefit  of less than half his income at the time. The income protection policy 
would also not have paid out for the first six months of any claim. The PPI policy would  have 
paid out after 30 days. Therefore the PPI did not replicate Mr Hs existing  cover. Overall Im 
satisfied that, if Leek United BS did recommend the policy to Mr H, it was reasonable for it to 
have done so.
Leek United BS also needed to provide Mr H with sufficient information for him to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Ref: DRN18256312I consider that Mr H would  have  known something  about the policy  at the very least  that it 
would cover his mortgage  repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think hed have  bought the policy without knowing anything 
at all about it.
Mr H appears  to have chosen  a level of benefit that covered his mortgage repayments  
(£200) plus an extra 25% (£50)  allowable under the policy.  So he seems to have given some 
thought to his own requirements. And in fact Mr H contacted Leek United BS in 2000  to 
increase his level of cover  to £272.  This suggests  to me that Mr H wanted the policy  and was 
actively managing  it to ensure that it continued to meet his needs.
Its possible that Leek  United BS didnt provide as much information as it should have about  
the PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt  affected by any of 
those things. As I consider he had an interest  in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. Therefore  Mr H is no 
worse off as a result of anything Leek United BS may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
that it needs to do to put things right. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1825631