K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) didnt tell her that she wasnt able 
to close her childrens Junior ISA Accounts when she opened  them. Shes also unhappy that 
the explanation provided to her about withdrawing  money at the time of opening  these 
accounts was ambiguous  and unclear.
background
In 2016 Miss N opened Junior ISA accounts  (JISAs) for her daughter and son. These 
accounts were opened  in branch and Miss N signed application forms, which  were dated  5 
May 2016.
In 2018, Miss N decided  she no longer wanted these JISA accounts.  So she attended a 
Halifax branch to close them. But she was told she couldnt close the accounts. She said this 
was the first time she was aware  that a JISA  couldnt be closed until a childs  18th birthday. 
Miss N wasnt  happy about this and complained to Halifax. But it didnt uphold her complaint. 
It said it had provided Miss N with full details of the account prior to their opening. It also said 
the information it had provided clearly outlined that there could be no withdrawals from the 
account until each  child reached the age of 18. 
Miss N says she wasnt told she couldnt  close these accounts and feels  she should have 
had this drawn to her attention. So she referred her complaint  to our service. To resolve  her 
complaint Miss N said she wanted her childrens JISAs closing and also she wanted to 
receive compensation to recognise  the poor information she says Halifax  gave her about the 
restrictions applicable  to these accounts.
 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ns complaint and, while they empathised with her, didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong  or needed  to do anything  more here. But Miss N 
disagreed with our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded 
Halifax made a mistake here or acted  unfairly.  And Im not going to be able to help Miss N in 
the way she would like. Ill explain why.
Here, Miss Ns request  to close her childrens JISA  was complicated by the nature of the 
JISA and the rules  that surround  these  accounts.  These rules are set by HMRC,  not by 
Halifax, and Halifax must  follow them. 
In accordance with these  rules withdrawals from JISAs arent  permitted until a childs 18th 
birthday. The only exception to this rule is where  a terminal illness claim has been  made  on 
behalf of the child and been agreed  in accordance with the HMRC ISA regulations.  
Fortunately, that exception didnt apply  here.  But that meant that Halifax  wouldnt be able to 
close a JISA account as doing so would involve the withdrawal and return  of money  paid into 
that account. And that would mean it would have breached  HMRC rules.  I think  thats a fair 
reason for Halifax not to actioned Miss Ns request to close  her childrens JISAs.  That 
Ref: DRN13515532process would  involve returning funds  to Miss N. And given  the rules  that apply to these 
account Im unable to tell Halifax to close these accounts as Miss N would like.
With that in mind Ive thought carefully about  whether  Miss N ought  reasonably  to have  been  
aware that she wouldnt have been able to withdraw money and close  these accounts. That 
involves me considering whether she was given adequate information by Halifax. 
Halifax said Miss N was provided with information, which clearly outlined that she couldnt 
make any withdrawals until each child reached the age of 18. Miss N said the information 
about withdrawals  was ambiguous and she wasnt made aware  that she couldnt close  these 
accounts. She said, had she been aware, she wouldnt  have gone  ahead with opening them.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Like our investigator,  Ive reviewed the paperwork Halifax said it provided  to Miss N during 
the account opening process. Ive had sight  of interview summary  documents, which  set out 
in detail the discussions Miss N had with Halifax when  these  accounts  were opened. These 
documents set out clearly that no withdrawals can be made from this account before the 
age of 18.
Im satisfied this is appropriately drawn  to a customers attention  as its set out under 
important information  and written in clear  plain language. It isnt hidden  in small print.  And I 
havent seen any evidence to make me doubt that this document was created at the time the 
accounts were opened  or that the content  hasnt  been accurately  recorded.  
Halifax says Miss N was asked to watch a video and also given  brochures  which  reiterated 
the features  of the JISA  account. Miss N doesnt  recall watching the video or being given the 
booklet. And Halifax cant provide our service with a copy of either given the passage of 
time. And Im not persuaded that expecting Halifax to still have brochures  or videos from 
2016 is a fair or reasonable expectation.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions that apply to JISA accounts. These accounts 
couldnt have  been opened without Miss N agreeing to the terms and conditions,  which  
made clear that money couldnt be withdrawn  until the child attained 18 years of age. I 
appreciate that these  terms are contained  within a lengthy document. But Id expect Miss N 
to have read this document before signing her account applications. I say this because in 
signing the forms she did Miss N was agreeing to the terms that apply to a JISA account.  
Miss N said she also didnt  recall  receiving a copy of the account  terms and conditions. But 
she told Halifax when she complained that she had been in a hurry and branch staff had told 
her she could read the material  she had been  given later. She isnt saying she didnt receive 
that material. I can understand  how Miss Ns recollection here may have been hampered  by 
the passage of time. And her memory may have been further compromised if she had 
stressed because she had been rushing. 
Ive seen clear notes from Halifax documenting what information  it prvided Miss N during the 
account opening process. And overall, Im persuaded that Miss N was, most likely, given the 
documents Halifax said it provided  her with. It follows that Im satisfied that Miss N was 
provided with clear and sufficient information about the restrictions of this account via a 
number of different  documents. And I think she ought reasonably  to have been aware that 
Ref: DRN13515533she wouldnt  be able to withdraw money or close these accounts.   I also think she had 
opportunity to query anything she may have  been unsure of. 
I dont think there can be any ambiguity about whether withdrawals are permitted from JISA 
accounts. And I think its entirely reasonable that if withdrawals arent  permitted neither are 
account closures because that would involve money  leaving the JISA  and a withdrawal of 
funds. So I cant fairly  find that Halifax misled  Miss N here as she thinks.  
While Miss N isnt able to close these JISA accounts  she can, if she wishes  transfer them  to 
new providers because  thats permitted by HMRC  guidelines. I can see that Halifax has 
already explained to her that any transfer  out of the JISA would need to be arranged directly  
with a new JISA provider who would arrange completion of the necessary forms. I think this 
was good advice in the circumstances.  It demonstrates that Halifax  was trying to be helpful.
I understand Miss N feel very strongly about  the issues  raised  in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything shes said. But for the reasons set out above Im satisfied 
Halifax acted fairly  and reasonably and Im not going to be asking it to do anything  more.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2019
Julie Robertson
Ref: DRN1351553