K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
November 2000  alongside a credit  card. Mrs H, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. From what Ive 
seen about the card application process,  I think Mrs H made a decision to buy the policy  
when she applied  for the credit  card by filling out and signing an application form. Ive 
also seen that on the card application  form shed signed  again in a separate section to 
show she wanted to buy PPI. So I think, given  that she filled out the application in her 
own time, Mrs H had the opportunity to think about  whether she wanted  PPI to go with 
her new card and decided she did. 
Mrs H says BoS recommended  she buy the PPI when she applied for the card on-line. 
But from what Ive seen  about  the sale, including  the type of application she used, it 
looks more likely  that Mrs H bought it by post. As a postal  (or internet)  application its 
also more likely  that BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs H got the information she needed 
to decide if she wanted to buy the PPI. Ive seen that the application form had some key 
information about the policy and how it works.  And its likely that she would have 
received further  policy details  soon after shed decided to buy the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong.  
I say this having taken into account  that Mrs H told us she enjoyed  good benefits from 
her employer if she couldnt work due to accident  or sickness   of up to six months full 
pay followed  by six months  at half pay. But the PPI would pay out in addition  those 
benefits, for up to 12 months if she couldnt  work due to accident or sickness,  or if she 
lost her job. It also meant she wouldnt have to rely on other sources  of funding,  such as 
savings, to help out. The PPI also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs H off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs H back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN10918832From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS has already  paid this to Mrs H. But if it hasnt  for 
some reason, BoS can make arrangements to pay the offer sum to Mrs H now Ive issued 
my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1091883