K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complained to Shawbrook Bank  Limited,  via a claims management company about 
the loans she took out in 2015.  Ill refer to all submissions as if theyve come  direct from 
Mrs P.
background
Mrs P took out fixed sum loan agreements with Shawbrook in February, April and June 2015 
to pay for replacement doors and windows for her home. Mrs P complained to Shawbrook 
that the figures quoted  in the loan agreements  didnt match the ones given in the suppliers 
sales contracts. She said this constituted a misrepresentation, a breach of contract  and 
rendered the agreements unenforceable. So she asked Shawbrook to give all her money  
back.
Shawbrook didnt agree  there were inconsistencies between  the sales  contracts and the loan 
agreements and refused to refund  any money. So Mrs P asked us to look into her complaint 
and said, in summary, that:
No affordability checks were carried out and the loans were  agreed purely because she 
was a home owner.
The fact the figures  on the loan agreements dont match  those on the sales  contracts 
renders the agreements unenforceable.
The supplier is no longer trading and has gone into administration  so isnt going  to be 
able to honour the 10-year guarantee she was given. This represents a breach of 
contract for which Shawbrook can be held equally  liable in accordance with section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Our investigator said she couldnt  consider  Mrs Ps concerns about affordability of the loans 
because she hadnt raised that matter with Shawbrook. She didnt agree there were 
inconsistencies between  the sales contract and the loan agreements.  And she said 
Shawbrook could be held responsible for anything that wouldve been covered under the 
guarantee.
Shawbrook accepted the investigators findings  but Mrs P did not. She said the way the 
supplier had acted  breached  various laws and codes of conduct. Specifically they had used 
high pressure sales tactics and unfair  inducements to persuade her to take out the loans. 
She had sufficient savings  to pay for the new doors  and windows outright and settled all 
three loans  soon after they were  taken out. The investigator  didnt agree the agreements  
were misrepresented  or forced onto Mrs P and arranged for the case to be passed for review 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that, up to this point, weve dealt with the three sales as three separate 
complaints. But the issues  are so similar in each case that Im issuing one decision  which  
covers all three complaints.
Ref: DRN11180332Were the loan agreements misrepresented  and/or was Mrs P unduly pressured  into taking 
them out?
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations  
and good practice,  amongst other things. And, with that in mind, section 56 of CCA 1974 
makes a lender  liable for whats  said by the supplier during negotiations in this sort of 
situation. So Im satisfied I can consider what was discussed between  Mrs P and the 
supplier before she took out the loan agreements, as part of her complaints against 
Shawbrook.
The concerns Mrs P originally mentioned relate to the cash/sale prices and deposits. In 
effect, she thinks the loan agreements  should have exactly  mirrored  what was shown on the 
sales contract. So they should for example,  have shown the price before and after the 
lifestyle subsidy and the deposit  (plus  any other  advance payments that were made) was 
deducted. 
With that in mind, I dont  agree there was any discrepancies here or that it was unclear how 
much Mrs P was borrowing such that Shawbrook  should have to pay Mrs P any money.  In 
each case, the loan agreement set out the total amount Mrs P actually needed to pay for the 
goods she was buying, from which was then deducted any deposits  or other amounts shed 
already paid. And those figures  reflected what was recorded on the sales  contracts, which 
also confirmed the lifestyles account (i.e the loan) amount. 
As far as Mrs Ps concerns about undue pressure  are concerned, I note she hasnt said 
specifically that she didnt want her door and windows replaced,  that they didnt meet her 
expectations or that theres been  anything wrong with them since  they were fitted. Instead 
her comments seem  to relate more to the fact she didnt need  to borrow  money  to pay for 
them and felt pressured into doing so. 
I cant know exactly what went on during the three separate meetings Mrs P had with the 
supplier. She says the meetings were very long and Im willing to accept that. But if she felt 
so uncomfortable  during  the first meeting I do wonder  why she allowed the supplier back into 
her home on two subsequent occasions.  
But, in any event, the sales contract set out what Mrs P would have  to pay if she used her 
savings, or the initial discount shed get if she took out a loan,  to pay for them.  With that in 
mind, it seems to me entirely possible Mrs P mightve  been  keen to take advantage of the 
discount and willing to take out a loan each  time to secure it. I also see Mrs P repaid all three 
loans in December  2015. And by doing so she made  an overall saving  on the amount shed 
have had to pay for the new doors  and windows if shed have paid for them outright. So I 
dont think shes suffered a financial loss overall  by taking out the loan rather  than paying for 
the goods with her savings.
If Mrs P really  didnt want the loans  then she couldve  paid with her savings. And if she felt 
the cost was too high without the discount then she was free to shop around with other 
suppliers. I can also see Mrs P had the right to withdraw from the loan agreements for 
14 days after she signed it. So she had some  time to reflect and reconsider the terms, if she 
wanted to.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs P had enough information to make  an informed 
decision about entering these three loan agreements And, on balance, Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN11180333she was pressured  into taking them out or misled about the terms. That means I dont  think  
there are fair and reasonable grounds  for me to uphold her complaints and, in any event, 
she hasnt suffered a financial loss. So I cant fairly tell Shawbrook to provide a refund, 
compensate Mrs P or do anything further.
What is Shawbrooks responsibility with regards to the 10-year guarantee?
Mrs P brings this part of her complaint under  section  75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower 
like Mrs P has a claim for breach of contract against  a supplier she can also bring that claim 
against the lender, in certain circumstances. 
With that in mind, Shawbrook has already agreed  that if a fault or issue  occurs  with Mrs P 
windows or doors then they would deal with a related claim in line with their responsibilities  
under section 75 of the CCA  1974. And Im satisfied thats a reasonable remedy in the 
circumstances, given  Mrs P hasnt said shes had any reason so far to make a claim on the 
guarantee. So theres not, technically, been  a breach of contract yet. 
If Mrs P does  have cause to make  a claim in future and is ultimately unhappy with 
Shawbrooks response then we may be able to consider a new complaint from her about  that 
matter. But we wouldnt be able to revisit  anything  Ive already considered as part of these 
three complaints
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold these complaints.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1118033