K820x#14complaint
Ms S, through her representatives, complains about  the advice she was given by Fairway  
Financial Consultancy in relation to transferring her personal pension and additional pension 
contributions into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). 
Ms Ss intention was to invest  these funds into overseas property with Harlequin  Property  
(Harlequin) which is an unregulated investment. She says Fairway didnt assess  the 
suitability and risks of this investment. Ms S wants to be compensated for her financial 
losses that she incurred  due to her failing investment.
background 
Fairway told us that they were introduced to Ms S by a sales  agent for Harlequin  in July 
2011. They  were  asked to help a limited number of clients establish a SIPP to buy Harlequin 
properties using  their pensions. The Harlequin  agent was acting from a Limited  Liability 
Partnership (LLP). There were two individuals who were involved in the sale of the Harlequin 
property, Mr N and Mr D. 
Ms S told us that her and her partner had known Mr N for several  years  and he had advised 
them on other financial products before. He had taken them to a sales  presentation for 
Harlequin properties and had encouraged them to invest into a hotel room in the Caribbean. 
Ms S says Mr N told her this was a good investment  and had assured her that this was an 
excellent way to get a return on her pension. She says Mr N also told her several high-profile  
clients had invested  into Harlequin which made her believe the investment was sound.
In June 2011 Ms S told her personal  pension provider of her plans  to transfer her pension 
and had signed the relevant instructions to transfer (the details  of the receiving  pension  
scheme werent yet completed). On 1 July 2011  she sent her provider a letter asking them  to 
share any information on her plan with Fairway  upon their request.
On 18 July 2011 Ms S signed a range of documents. I understand that Ms S completed them  
with Mr N and/or Mr D. 
This included a confidential financial review  which recorded that Ms S:
was aged  40 and intended to retire at age 66;
owned a business with a net profit of £30,000;
had joint net monthly  income of £1,500  and outgoings of £850;
had £50,000  in deposit  accounts  and £7,000 owing on credit  cards;
lived with her partner, who owned their home  valued at £160,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £104,000.
was planning  to sell her business  and start a new one
this form also recorded that Ms Ss financial adviser was one of the partners at 
Fairway
A SIPP application form was also completed. This recorded that:
Ms S would make a one-off net pension contribution of £50,400.
around £8,000  was to be transferred into the SIPP from an existing pension.
Fairway was the financial  adviser.
the introducer was the Harlequin  agents  LLP 
Ref: DRN11564692the SIPP was to be used to buy a Harlequin  hotel room.
Mr D witnessed the application form
An Appropriateness Test for Harlequin was completed. This confirmed that Ms S:
had not received advice about Harlequin and was an execution only customer; 
had decided to invest based on information from the investment provider;
was comfortable  with the risks involved with the investment; that there  was no 
guarantee higher risks would lead to higher rewards and that she might get less back  
than she invested
understood the investment might  be difficult to sell which  could affect taking benefits 
in retirement 
understood she was not covered by the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS), or this Service;
had read and understood the terms and conditions of the investment.
Ms S also completed a Harlequin  Property Questionnaire and SIPP  guidance document  
which said that:
Ms S wanted to buy a property for £225,000 which was planned  to complete a year 
later in 2012
she would purchase the property together  with her own Limited Liability Partnership 
Harlequin was an unregulated investment
Fairway say they were asked to establish the SIPP on an execution  only basis  and were paid 
a flat fee of £1,000 to do this. They say they didnt  receive any commission  from the 
Harlequin investments  and they didnt recommend this investment to Ms S. They  say in the 
interest of the customer, they decided  to not only provide  an execution-only service but 
advise on the transfer of pension benefits to a SIPP.
Fairway wrote to Ms S on 26 July 2011.  They say this was the first time Ms S had any direct  
dealings with Fairway.  The letter  explained that they had received  documentation from Mr D 
about Ms Ss request  to establish a SIPP with Guardian,  but that they would need to request 
information from her pension provider first. They  understood  that Ms S intended to make a 
personal contribution  to the SIPP of £67,000.  They strongly recommended clarifying that this 
level of contribution was viable.  They understood that the funds were to be invested in an 
overseas property development. They stressed that they were unable to provide any advice 
about that transaction. They said our advice  will be limited to the specific issue of whether 
establishment of a SIPP and a transfer of benefits  to such a scheme  for investment is 
appropriate.
On 9 August  2011 Fairway wrote to Ms S again and said:
Fairway were advising on the transfer  of her pension  funds to her newly established 
SIPP. They were confirming their advice for the establishment of the SIPP and 
transfer of her existing  pension. They  were  not offering  any investment advice and 
would strongly recommend taking advice if Ms S intended  to use the funds for an 
overseas property development.
They understood Ms S intended  to invest funds within the SIPP to invest  in an 
overseas property development. This meant  that Ms S needed  the flexibility  of the 
SIPP even though there  were  higher costs associated with a SIPP  compared  to a 
stakeholder pension.
Ref: DRN11564693Ms S was undertaking a highly speculative investment and one that most pension 
providers wouldnt handle.  They were happy  to recommend Guardian as the provider 
of the SIPP  as it could facilitate Ms Ss objectives.
They noted that Ms S intended  to make a pension contribution  of £50,000 to make 
her chosen investment.  Ms S would need to have sufficient income or carry forward  
unused relief to make  a payment at that level. This would have  to be confirmed with 
the SIPP provider.
Ms S had the money on deposit to make the contribution to the pension.  There  was a 
credit card debt of £7,000 which Ms S should  consider  repaying.  However,  it was 
understood monies were needed to fund the intended Harlequin investment. And 
Ms S would  be able to meet her credit  card liability from income.
Fairway say they called Ms S on 24 August 2011.  They provided a call note and phone 
records that they spoke to Ms Ss number for over 17 minutes on the day. The note records  
that:
Fairway had some  reservations about the suitability  of the investment.  Following 
compliance advice  they wished to clarify  the nature of the investment.
in view of Ms Ss investment experience they had decided to re-issue their advice 
and to highlight the nature  of the Harlequin  investment in detail.
Ms S was advised  not to proceed unless she was prepared to take a high risk 
approach, which  could result in the loss of all of her savings.
from the details  they held it was not clear  that Ms S could make  a gross pension  
contribution of £64,000 and she was putting all of her savings in a speculative  
investment.
Ms S was annoyed  and wanted  to proceed with the investment . She had the funds 
available to make  the pension  contribution.
Ms S had held several meetings with the Harlequin sales agent.  She was fully aware 
of the prospects for success and failure.
Fairway said they would issue new guidance to Ms S to ensure she wouldnt proceed  
without fully understanding the risks involved.  
Ms S would return a signed copy of this letter to confirm she understood the firms 
guidance and her willingness to proceed  despite  their concerns.
The next day, on 25 August, Ms S returned  a signed copy  of the original  letter to show  she 
still wanted to proceed.  Fairway sent their promised  follow up letter to Ms S on 26 August. 
The adviser explained the Harlequin investment should be classed as High Risk/High 
Reward. Fairway  said they understood Ms S had been given information by the Harlequin  
sales agents, but strongly recommended her to read through the documents  they were 
providing and contact Fairway with any concerns before committing  her funds. It was 
highlighted that in a worst  case scenario Ms S risked  losing  her entire  pension  fund.
Fairway enclosed a risk profiler  document  previously completed by Ms S on 18 July 2011. It 
showed Ms S as a customer with the highest risk profile. It was noted that Ms S:
could afford to lose a large proportion of money without her security  being affected
was prepared to accept a very high degree  of risk
her earning capacity was such that she could absorb this risk
was prepared to invest  for the long term and didnt require access  to her money in 
the medium to long term 
accepted the risk of losing most or all of her money
Ref: DRN11564694The risk profile document also included some additional narrative from Fairway.  This was 
headed IMPORTANT INFORMATION  PLEASE READ and said (amongst other things):
Ms S confirmed her investment risk profile because she had received information on 
the Harlequin proposition and understood the potential  investment returns  available 
and the risks. She understood by investing  into one specific investment sector  she 
was taking a relatively  high risk
risks involved  included  the risk that the demand  for the accommodation could fall due 
to things such as economic  recession,  geographical influences,  exchange rate 
fluctuation and the nature  of the loan facility  as well as political risk.
Fairways  enquiries had established that it was a legal  and legitimate investment  for a 
SIPP. But this did not guarantee  it was suitable  or that it would achieve positive 
returns.
on the basis that Ms S understood the specialist nature of the Harlequin  investment 
and the associated risks, Fairway was happy  to recommend the Guardian SIPP
Fairway referred  to projected investment returns being enticing  and showing  high 
quality hotels and resorts. The income  projected  through rental was in excess  of 10% 
a year and potential capital appreciation of over 20% a year.  They were unable to 
substantiate those  figures  and whilst  they appeared attractive, they recommended 
caution as they were  unable to verify those figures. The returns  were  by no means  
guaranteed.
Fairway said that they werent overseas property specialists and werent  in a position 
to confirm the potential investment returns.
Ms S was investing  in redevelopment of an existing hotel which  could have the 
potential to open in a short timeframe, but Fairway recommended Ms S to check with 
Harlequin that her funds would be used to complete her individual  unit as other  
properties that werent yet developed could be even more speculative
Fairway also warned  to be cautious with regards  to sales  information promising that 
funds could be returned to SIPP customers if required. They said they would 
question whether Harlequin  would hold enough  cash reserves  to be able to pay out 
significant funds  if there was a demand
There were  a number of warnings given  in the document in bold letters:
However we would reaffirm  that if you have  any doubts about the nature of the 
Harlequin proposition  or any aspect  of the risks involved  you should not 
proceed.
This could result in any investment  being very illiquid i.e. your funds  being tied 
up and unavailable  for a significant time period.
We therefore only consider this form of investment suitable  for investors who 
understand the nature of the proposed investment, have received detailed  
information on the investment, understand  the potential benefits  and risks 
associated with the proposed investment and are prepared  to put at risk this 
element of their long  term savings
In our opinion  this specialist form of investment  is only suitable for investors 
who fully understand the nature of the investment, the potential rewards and 
risks associated with this specialist  form of investment and understand that 
this element of their total retirement  savings could be significantly reduced  in 
value or in extreme circumstances  entirely  lost.
Ref: DRN11564695If you feel that you cannot fulfil  all of these requirements ( this referred to the 
indicators of Ms Ss risk profile) then  we cannot recommend establishment of the 
Self Invested Personal Pension on your behalf and would not be in a position  
to proceed to act for you in establishment of this. If this is the case  you should 
contact us at your earliest opportunity.
We therefore recommend that you do not proceed with this investment unless  
you fully understand  the nature of the proposed investment and are prepared 
to accept the potential risks involved.
One of our adjudicators thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Fairway should  
have strongly advised Ms S that the Harlequin  investment was unsuitable for her and 
consequently shouldnt have recommended the SIPP.  He said if Fairway had done  so, Ms S 
wouldnt have proceeded with the investment. The adjudicator recommended  Fairway to 
compensate Ms S for her losses, but to make allowances  for some commission payments  
paid to Ms Ss partner.  
Fairway provided very detailed submissions which Im not going to repeat in every detail. 
However, in essence  they said they made Ms S fully aware of the risks she was intending to 
take and that they didnt recommend her to proceed if she had any doubts or concerns about  
the investment  and wasnt prepared to risk losing  her entire funds. They  say Ms S 
proceeded as an insistent  client  and so they shouldnt be held responsible for her losses.  
Ms S didnt have an established relationship with Fairway. However, she and her partner 
had a long and trusting relationship with Mr N and would have put more weight on what  he 
was telling her. By the time she was introduced to Fairway she had already made the 
decision to invest and had started  proceedings with her existing pension provider to transfer.  
Also, Ms Ss partner introduced other clients  to Mr N and received commission  payments. 
She received £9,000 in relation to Ms Ss investment. Fairway says Ms S would have 
invested into Harlequin in any event and so they shouldnt be held responsible  for her 
losses. 
The complaint was referred  for an ombudsmans decision. Another ombudsman  at this 
service issued a provisional decision essentially agreeing with the outcome the adjudicator 
had reached.  Fairway still disagreed and made detailed further submissions.
Fairway said they demonstrated they gave appropriate advice to Ms S and their 
recommendation was recorded in writing and verbally on the phone. They  say they did 
advise on both the suitability of the SIPP and the underlying investment. They  gave clear  risk 
warnings and Ms S wanted to go ahead anyway.  Ms S had confirmed she had understood 
the risks and certainly would have understood the nature of Fairways recommendation. 
They questioned how Ms S can say now she wouldnt have taken a decision to invest lightly 
if she had known more  about the risks. Ms S should  be asked why she continued to invest  
despite the warnings.
Fairway felt the influence  of Ms Ss partner and the fact that she introduced other  clients  to 
Harlequin and received  payment for introducing Ms S hadnt been  given  enough 
consideration and weight.  The same  applied to the relationship with Mr N and the influence  
on Ms Ss decision.
Fairway shouldnt be held responsible for comments or recommendations made by any third 
parties who never represented  their firm and when they didnt know  what  comments/advice  
Ref: DRN11564696the third party  was offering. They suspected the Harlequin agents would likely  be 
encouraging clients  to invest, so for this reason they provided  customers with an impartial 
view of the risks involved. 
Fairway say they arent financial dictators.  After having placed  Ms S in a fully informed 
position and having made a suitable recommendation they should  be able to assist the client  
with their chosen course of action if they wished to proceed against their advice. They  
considered Ms Ss knowledge  and experience to be insufficient for this investment, so thats 
why they outlined the risks and potential consequences like they did. They remain  of the 
opinion that the ultimate  decision whether to invest or not must lie with Ms S.
provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  Ms Ss complaint. I said the Harlequin 
investment was unsuitable for Ms S and Fairway shouldnt have recommended  the SIPP. 
However, I thought  Ms S would have invested  into Harlequin even if Fairway had given her 
suitable advice  and therefore  she would  have incurred  the same  losses.  I repeat my detailed 
findings below.
was the transfer  into a SIPP suitable  for Ms S?
The simple  answer is no. The SIPP was only needed to facilitate the investment into 
Harlequin as this wouldnt have been possible within  Ms Ss personal pension plan. The 
investment into unregulated overseas  property  is a high risk and specialist investment which  
would only be suitable for the most  experienced investors. Ms S had only one small personal 
pension (around  £8,000) and no other investments,  so I think  its fair to say she wasnt an 
experienced investor. 
Ms S had a monthly joint income with her partner of £1,500. And only £50,000 in liquid 
assets which she also wanted to invest into Harlequin through the SIPP. She had £7,000 in 
credit card debts. So essentially she wanted to invest all her retirement provisions, savings 
and funds she had to borrow into Harlequin. She still had over 15 years  to go until her 
planned retirement, so its possible that she wanted  and was able to take some risk with her 
pension, however based on her circumstances she simply didnt have the capacity to take 
such a high risk and losing her funds would have sincerely affected her financial security in 
retirement. So the investment was unsuitable for her and consequently so was the SIPP.
what were Fairways responsibilities
Fairway recommended  the SIPP to Ms S and as part of that they needed to consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments. The regulators view on this is clear.  In 2013 it 
issued an alert about advice on pension transfers  with the view to invest in unregulated 
investment through a SIPP. It said:
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment 
Ref: DRN11564697must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer  into the SIPP.  If, 
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable.
Im aware that Fairway gave the advice in 2011,  so before this alert was published. 
However, this alert didnt  mark  a change in regulations. It was essentially a confirmation of 
how financial  advisers should act. 
Fairway originally told Ms S they wouldnt give any advice on the underlying investment. 
However, after speaking  to their compliance  team Fairway realised that they had to include 
more information  about the nature of the Harlequin investment and gave Ms S new 
guidance.
Ive considered the call note dated 24 August 2011 and the follow-up letter with enclosures 
of 26 August 2011 and I think Fairway made  it very clear that Ms Ss intended  investment  
was high risk and that she could lose all her money. They  also offered her more  information 
on the nature of the investment and what problems could occur.  However, essentially 
Fairway left the decision whether the investment was suitable to Ms S. In their amended  risk 
profile document they said:
Each investor should consider the appropriateness  of this investment based  upon their own 
individual circumstances.  You should  not proceed  with an investment of this nature unless 
you are prepared to take a high risk investment approach which could result in the loss of 
part or all of your savings.
On the basis that you understand  the specialist nature  of the Harlequin  investment and the 
associated risk of utilising your savings  in this investment we are happy  to recommend 
establishment of a Guardian Self Invested  Personal  Pension to allow completion of this 
transaction.
In our opinion this specialist form of investment is only suitable for investors  who fully 
understand the nature of the investment, the potential rewards and risks associated  with this 
specialist form of investment and understand that this element of their total retirement  
savings could be significantly  reduced  in value or in extreme circumstances entirely lost.
We therefore recommend  that you do not proceed with this investment unless you fully 
understand the nature of the proposed investment and are prepared to accept  the potential  
risks involved.
I appreciate Fairway say they werent  an expert  on overseas  investment and so they feel 
they couldnt give specialised advice. However,  in order to give advice on transferring a 
pension into a SIPP they also had to advise  on the suitability on the investment. If they 
thought they couldnt  do this for lack of information/expertise they shouldnt  have advised at 
all. However, if they did proceed to advise (and in this case  I think  they had sufficient 
information about Ms Ss circumstances and the general nature of the investment  to assess  
whether this kind of investment was suitable), they shouldve clearly recommended  for or 
against the transfer instead of recommending the transfer into the SIPP  but only giving 
information on the underlying investment.
Ref: DRN11564698Fairway qualified their recommendation and I dont  think that was good  enough.  They gave 
Ms S advice and so it wasnt  sufficient to give Ms S all the information  to allow  her to make 
an informed choice about whether the investment was suitable for her circumstances.   
In 2011, The Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS)  said under 9.2.1R: a firm must take 
reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation is suitable for its client. And COBS  
9.2.2R said it was necessary for a firm.to have a reasonable basis  for believing that the 
transaction to be recommended
(a)meets his investment objectives
(b)is such that he is financially able to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with 
his investment objectives
(c)is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  to understand 
the risks involved in the transaction
Ms Ss overall objective here wasnt only the transfer of her pension into a SIPP but included  
the investment  into Harlequin. At the very least Ms S wasnt  able to bear the financial risk of 
her investment as explained earlier in my decision.  I think Fairway shouldnt  have simply  
accepted the risk profile questionnaire that was provided to them  by Mr D. The questionnaire 
wasnt signed by Ms S, so its not clear whether she actually classed her attitude  to risk as 
very high (6 on a scale of 1-6). Its also not clear to me whether Fairway discussed her risk 
profile with Ms S on the phone on 24 August. However, even  if they did and she confirmed 
this was her attitude  to risk, based on Ms Ss circumstances as recorded on the fact find, 
Fairway should have  realised that at least two of the statements wouldnt apply to Ms S 
(even if she had thought  differently):
I can afford to lose a large proportion of money  without my financial security  being affected
My earning capacity is such  that I can absorb this risk
If Fairway had done their own proper risk assessment, I think  they should have come  to the 
conclusion that Ms S had a much  lower risk profile,  particularly  with regard to her capacity to 
take any risk with her pension for the reasons Ive explained above.  Even  if Ms S was 
prepared to take high risks with her finances, Fairway should  have told her directly  and 
without qualifications  that they recommended  against the transfer.  The investment was 
unsuitable and consequently so was the SIPP as there was no other reason for the SIPP 
than to facilitate  the Harlequin investment.
Fairway say they treated  Ms S as an insistent client. However,  for a client to be insistent, 
they first need to be given a clear recommendation to do or not to do something.  They would 
then have to decide to go against the advisers recommendation. As I explained I dont think 
Fairway gave a clear  recommendation  without caveats  against  the investment  in the SIPP.  
They pointed out risks, but left the assessment of suitability to Ms S.
Fairway has referred to chapter 10 in COBS. However, this chapter relates to the 
assessment of appropriateness in non-advised sales.  This was an advised sale to which  
chapter 9 in COBS applies. 
In summary,  I dont think Fairway met their obligations for giving  suitable  advice.
Ref: DRN11564699what would  Ms S have  done if Fairway had given her suitable advice?
As a service  we dont  punish businesses for their errors. We try to put customers  into the 
position they would be in if the correct action had been taken. I appreciate  that suitable 
advice could have  avoided Ms S losses. And I would agree that many customers would 
follow the recommendation  of a regulated financial adviser. 
However, in these particular circumstances I think on balance Ms S would have still invested 
her pension into Harlequin even if Fairway had advised her not to do this. I say this for 
several reasons.
relationship with Mr N
Ms S and her partner had a longstanding  relationship with Mr N. They told us Mr N had 
advised them before  on pensions and other  financial products.  The couple told us they 
trusted Mr N and had been  convinced by him that investing in Harlequin was a sure bet and 
a sound investment. Mr N had been  persuasive  and had told them about high profile  clients 
in government who had bought several  of these properties. During our investigation Ms S 
told us that the £50,000  she wanted to invest as a personal contribution  (in addition to her 
pension transfer) came in part from loans and credit cards. She says Mr N encouraged them  
to do this and told them this was a once in a lifetime  opportunity  and they would see the 
returns in 12-18 months when the property  was completed. And Ms S obviously trusted  Mr N 
enough to take on these  debts.
Contrary to this, it seems they had no relationship  with Fairway until a month  before  the 
advice was given.  Ms S told us she never met with the adviser.  Ms S says she thought Mr N 
worked for Fairway. However Fairway categorically  deny this. They  say Mr D knew one of 
the partners at Fairway  through  mutual  clients and in July 2011  Mr D had asked him whether 
Fairway could assist Mr Ns clients with the establishment of SIPPs  to invest  into Harlequin 
through their pensions.  Fairway say they never had heard of Mr N before that. Of course I 
dont know what Mr N told Ms S about  his relationship with Fairway and theres  a possibility 
that he gave her the wrong impression or she misunderstood that different entities were 
involved. However, I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr N worked for Fairway at any 
point. 
So I want to make it clear to Ms S that I cant hold Fairway responsible  for anything  she was 
told by Mr N or Mr D without Fairways  knowledge. Im only looking  at Fairways actions and 
whether I think they are responsible for any of her financial  losses.
Ref: DRN115646910incentives 
Ms S said in her SIPP application that she wanted to buy the Harlequin property jointly  with 
her Limited Liability Partnership (LLP). Companies House shows  the LLP was set up in July 
2011 shortly before Fairway got involved and both Ms S and her partner  were  designated 
members of the LLP.  We received some information from Mr D about  this. He told us that 
LLPs were established for all clients in order for them to become sub-agents  for Harlequin 
and introduce clients.  Business development loans were offered which would  be paid once 
sales had been  completed. Ive seen an email  from Mr Ds wife to Mr N in November 2011  
discussing these kind of loan agreements and sub-agency contracts  for clients  and so I think 
its likely  that a similar arrangement was offered to Ms S and her partner.
Ive seen bank  statements  to show that Ms Ss partner received a total of £10,000 from the 
Mr Ns LLP between November 2011 and January 2012. I think everyone agrees that £1,000  
was paid for the introduction of another client. Mr D says the remaining £9,000 were meant 
to be paid as a loan to Ms Ss LLP after the completion of her investment, however Ms S 
didnt want any further loans and it was agreed that the sum would be paid as commission to 
her partner for introducing Ms S. He said Ms S had asked  for £2,000  of the commission to 
be paid to her partner upfront before the completion of the investment.
Ms S disagreed with Mr Ds version  of events. She said her partner did introduce  clients  to 
Mr N but that the sums she received werent  related to Ms Ss investment. She says her 
partner had an informal arrangement with Mr N to introduce clients  to him. Ms S also said 
she was never told about any loan paybacks and she hadnt  asked for £2,000  upfront as she 
had the necessary funds to invest.  She said payments were only received after she had 
made her investment, so it wasnt an incentive to invest  in Harlequin and didnt affect her 
decision to invest.
However, in the email  I mentioned above from Mr Ds wife to Mr N in November 2011  it is 
mentioned that if Ms S is to receive  her £2,000  now, we need  to set up loan documentation 
now. A couple of days later Ms Ss partner received £2,000 from Mr Ns LLP and a week 
after that Ms S paid £1,000 into the SIPP to make up a shortfall in funds before the final 
balance of the investment had to be paid.  So based on the information  I have  Im satisfied 
that Ms Ss partner received £2,000  for Ms Ss investment. 
Ms Ss partner wasnt able to provide  any other client names who she introduced to 
Mr N. And theres evidence that what Mr D told us about the commission payment of £2,000 
and the loan payback agreements is correct. So Im minded to believe the rest of his 
recollections about the second commission payment (£7,000) also being paid in relation  to 
Ms Ss investment. Its true that these  payments  were received after Ms D had paid her 
contributions and pension into the SIPP. However,  based on the information I have I think on 
balance Ms S would  have  expected  some  form of payment to her LLP or partner (either  in 
form of a loan or as commission) when she made the decision to invest. So this still would 
have been an incentive.
risks explained
Ms S says if someone had told her about  the high risks she was taking, she wouldnt have 
invested in Harlequin. However,  as Ive explained earlier in my decision Fairway did point  out 
that there  was the possibility Ms S could lose all her money. They also explained specific  
risks of overseas property  and raised concerns  that the advertised  attractive  returns  were 
not guaranteed and Fairway didnt know how they had been calculated. Based on the 
Ref: DRN115646911information I have  they told her that over the phone and by letter and the messages were  
clear. 
Our adjudicator asked  Ms S whether she recalled those messages and what she understood 
about the risks. She said there might have been references to high risk. However,  Mr N had 
told them  lots of things  in this environment were  high risk but assured them  Harlequin  was a 
safe bet and it would pay out within a short time. Consequently she considered  this to be 
fairly low risk. She says she wasnt  given a balanced  picture as Mr N mainly talked about the 
positives of the investment. And I have no doubt  that Mr N concentrated on the advantages 
and the possible  high rewards. After all he wanted  to sell this to Ms S and its worth  noting 
that Harlequin property  did look like a lucrative investment and some investors had seen 
good returns. As an unregulated sales agent  Mr N wasnt  required to follow the same  
principles as Fairway.
Ms S also admitted that at the time of the advice she was very excited about her investment. 
She was receiving lots of documents and Mr N urged her to get things done quickly, so she 
might not have read everything properly and signed what she was told to sign by him. She 
admitted though that it was a long time ago so she couldnt remember everything exactly.
Based on the above, I think its likely that any risks warnings or advice given by Fairway  
were outweighed by what  Ms S was told by Mr N, a person she trusted and who was guiding 
her through the sales process.  By the time Fairway got in touch with Ms S for the first time in 
July 2011, she had already made  her plans to transfer her pension  and invest  into Harlequin. 
She had completed  the paperwork, taken  out debts and had paid a deposit  of £1,000 to 
reserve the property.  She and her partner also had set up an LLP, had been  offered 
substantial incentive  payments and Ms Ss partner was introducing other  clients to 
Harlequin.
It wasnt that Ms S was looking for advice  from Fairway whether she should  proceed.  It 
seems Mr N had already convinced her she should.  Mr N only introduced  Fairway into the 
process as he couldnt recommend the SIPP himself.
causation
Fairway shouldnt have recommended the SIPP. However, I dont think a negative 
recommendation from Fairway would have stopped Ms S from investing. It seems that Ms S 
was not listening  to what Fairway was telling her. She had no prior relationship with them, 
but was relying  very much on the information given to her by Mr N. She ignored Fairways  
clear risk warnings, so I dont think its likely she would  have  paid much  attention  to a clear 
recommendation not to transfer. 
And even  if this had raised some doubts or concerns  with Ms S, I think  it would have been 
quite a big step to cancel  the reservation of the property, lose the reservation fee and miss 
out on the incentive payment. Of course in hindsight Im sure Ms S would say she would 
have accepted these losses in order to avoid losing her entire pension, but I dont think  at 
the time she would have  seen it this way. I think its likely Mr N would have continued to 
clear any possible doubts. 
On balance, I dont  think a clear negative recommendation against  the transfer from Fairway 
would have deterred Ms S from making the investment. She could have proceeded as an 
insistent client. 
Ref: DRN115646912Ive considered whether Fairway should  have refused  to set up the SIPP for Ms S. The 
regulator doesnt require businesses to generally  refuse acting for clients after a negative 
recommendation. Its possible for clients to proceed  on an insistent client basis. Fairway did 
have to act in the clients best interest.  However,  I dont think this necessarily always means  
refusing to act altogether. Fairway suspected Harlequin was encouraging Ms B to invest, so 
they gave her extensive risk warnings and explained  the potential  consequences of losing all 
of her money. 
I think they took reasonable steps  to ensure she understood what she was doing and wasnt 
investing without  understanding  the risks of her planned actions. So if they had given a clear 
recommendation -without caveats- against  the transfer and Ms S still wanted to proceed 
despite all warnings, I think they wouldnt  have  acted  unfairly  by helping her to execute her 
wishes. In any event,  even if Fairway  had refused  to assist, I think Ms S wouldve  explored 
alternatives to invest (with the help of Mr N). She wasnt required to have a recommendation 
from a financial adviser to open the SIPP and invest in Harlequin. 
On balance I think Ms S would have incurred the same losses  even  if Fairway  had given her 
suitable advice.  I empathise with the position Ms S finds herself in, but I dont think Fairways  
actions caused  her losses. And so it wouldnt be fair to uphold  the complaint against  them.  
For these reasons Im not intending  to request Fairway to compensate Ms S.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to provide comments or additional information  they wanted  me to 
consider. Fairway confirmed they had nothing  further to add. Ms Ss representatives 
disagreed with my decision and provided further  comments which I thank them  for. In 
summary they said:
They were disappointed  that I had reached a different  outcome  than the adjudicator 
and the previous ombudsman
The principles that businesses have to follow and which are set out in the regulators 
handbook should  be taken into account.  In particular Principle 6 which provides that 
a firm must  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  fairly
They were pleased  to note I agreed that Fairway failed to provide suitable advice. 
They said Fairway  failed to consider Ms Ss personal circumstances or conduct any 
real analysis.  Other than requesting information  from Ms Ss existing  pension  
provider, Fairway relied on information  from third parties. Fairway offered limited 
advice about any alternatives or recommendations on other  potential  investments.
They agreed with my findings that Fairway shouldnt  have  agreed  to act if they felt 
they couldnt advise on the Harlequin  investment. And that after Fairway  had done  
their own research  into the investment they should have been aware it was highly 
unsuitable for Ms S. They also agreed that Ms S cant  be regarded as an insistent 
client as no clear  recommendation  had been given.
Fairway failed their obligations set out in COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 and Ms S was not in 
a position to make an informed decision
Ms S told Fairway  in their phone call that she was aware  of the risks from meetings 
with the Harlequin  sales agent. This should  have raised  red flags to Fairway  that Ms 
Ref: DRN115646913S wasnt in a fully informed position at which point they should  have provided their 
own independent advice
Ms S disputes that the relationship  with Mr N was longstanding and trusting. It was in 
a professional capacity only as Ms Ss partner had received assistance from Mr N in 
setting up a pension  and life assurance  prior to the investment. The relationship  with 
Mr N shouldnt hold significant weight in comparison to the role Fairway held. Ms S 
was a lay investor and reliant  on the advice of Fairway. She should have been 
correctly advised.
It cant be said that Ms S would have proceeded in any event. If Fairway had 
expressly said she shouldnt invest and provided other  options-as  they were  required 
to do-Ms S undoubtedly wouldnt  have  invested.  Fairway shouldnt have continued 
with the advice as it was not in Ms Ss best interest.
Ms S categorically denies there was any form of loan agreement  in place. She had 
funds to complete  the transactions and there was never any discussion about a loan 
payback agreement. They havent  seen the evidence of loan agreements that I 
referred to in my decision and request  a copy of this. They  also cant see how an 
email from Mr Ds wife to Mr N discussing loan agreements can be evidence in this 
complaint nor how it can be relied  upon without evidence that this was communicated  
to Ms S or agreed to by her.
They strongly disagree that payment  was received in relation to Ms Ss investment. 
In absence of evidence I should not place any weight on these comments. Given  the 
years passed its understandable Ms Ss partner cant recall any further  names of 
people she introduced to Mr N.
They dont agree Ms S would have expected some sort of payment. This was an 
investment and they cant see the basis on which Ms S would be expecting  some 
form of commission. The money was received after the SIPP  had been  set up and 
the initial payment  had been  made to Harlequin. The money was received  as 
commission for introducing friends to Mr N.
They query how it can be suggested  that Ms S was willing  to risk her entire  personal  
pension on the basis of an incentive.
It wouldnt have been a big step to cancel the reservation when compared to the 
alternatives. Ms S thought the fee was refundable and as such  believed she wouldnt 
financially lose out by changing her mind.
Ms S wouldnt have proceeded as an insistent  client. On the facts  this did not 
happen. On balance, if she had received advice from her regulated financial adviser 
not to proceed  with an unregulated  investment, she wouldnt have done so. 
Fairway didnt offer to meet Ms S and at least  they should have made her aware 
Mr N wasnt regulated. Fairway held a duty to act in Ms Ss best interest.  Even if 
Ms S wanted to proceed, it wasnt in her interest and Fairway should have refused to 
act. They  dont agree  that Ms S would have incurred the same losses if she had been  
given suitable  advice
my findings
Ref: DRN115646914Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
I appreciate that the outcome Ive reached  is disappointing for Ms S, particularly as its 
different to previous findings she has received from this service.  However,  having  
considered everything  again- including Ms Ss representatives response to my provisional 
findings- my decision remains not to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons in more 
detail below. 
As I said in my provisional decision I think Fairway  failed to give suitable advice for all the 
reasons previously explained and I agree with Ms Ss representatives that they should  have  
clearly advised against  the transfer  into the SIPP and the investment into Harlequin.
However, I still remain of the opinion that on balance Ms S would have proceeded with the 
investment even if Fairway had given her a suitable recommendation. In addition  to what  I 
said in my provisional decision I would like to add the following in response  to Ms Ss 
representatives comments:
relationship with Mr N
When Ms S and her partner spoke to our adjudicator  they said themselves that they trusted  
Mr N as Ms Ss partner had had dealings with him before and that he had persuaded them  
Harlequin was a sure  bet and a sound  investment. Based on what  he had told them the 
couple even took on substantial loans  and credit card debts to not miss out on a once  of a 
lifetime opportunity. Its evident that the couple trusted Mr Ns judgement that Harlequin 
would provide high returns within a short timeframe. And I think its fair to say by the time 
they were introduced to Fairway in their mind  they were only going through  the necessary 
formalities so they could achieve their objective:  investing their pension into Harlequin. So I 
have to take into account that Ms S would have placed considerable weight  on what Mr N 
was telling her. 
incentives
Ms S says there wasnt a loan back agreement with Mr N.  I havent got a copy  of such an 
agreement for Ms S or indeed any direct correspondence between  Mr N and Ms S that 
proves such an agreement was in place or that the commission paid was in relation to 
Ms Ss investment. And I never said I did. 
I was presented with testimony from Mr D and Ms S and her partner. Their version of events 
differ, so I have to decide whats more likely on the balance of probabilities as theres no 
definite proof either way. Mr Ds testimony  was supported by contemporaneous  email  
correspondence between  his wife and Mr N from 2011 about  loan agreements  for clients and 
specifically referring  to Ms S requesting £2,000. Ive also seen evidence that Ms Ss partner 
received £2,000 a couple of days later and the following week  Ms S paid £1,000  into her 
SIPP to make up a shortfall in funds. I think this is persuasive evidence  that the payment of 
£2,000 was made in relation to Ms Ss investment. 
Ref: DRN115646915As Ms Ss partner couldnt give any more  information on what  she received the other £7,000 
for and Mr Ds version of events was in part supported by persuasive evidence,  Im minded 
to believe his other recollections  that this money  was also paid in relation to Ms Ss 
investment.
I dont think it matters  whether this money was originally intended as a loan or commission to 
Ms Ss partner for introducing Ms S to Harlequin.  Based on what Ive seen I think  on balance 
Ms S and her partner were expecting some  money to be paid to them once  the SIPP had 
been established and the investment had been paid for. I consider this to be an incentive.
risks
Ms Ss representatives say that it should have raised red flags with Fairway when Ms S said 
she knew about the prospects for success and failure of the investment  from talking  to the 
Harlequin sales agent. And that at this point they should have provided independent advice. 
However, this is what they did. Although Fairway didnt go far enough and didnt clearly 
advise against  the transfer  and investment into Harlequin as they should  have, they clearly  
pointed out the risks to Ms S in easy to understand language.  The risk of potentially  losing  all 
of her pension was explained  several times together with specific risks to overseas property 
investment. Fairway made it clear in their recommendation letter  and in the phone  call with 
Ms S on 24 August that they had concerns about the suitability of the investment.  They  
raised concerns  that although  returns seemed attractive, they werent  guaranteed  and 
Fairway didnt know how they were  calculated. However, Ms S proceeded anyway despite 
these warnings and being informed about the high risk she was about  to take. 
Ms S told us Mr N had focussed  on the positives of the investments and not on the risks. 
However, if this was the case  and Ms S was prepared to listen  to Fairway, I think the 
warnings given to her by Fairway should have at least prompted her to ask them further 
questions-but she didnt. Fairway didnt meet with Ms S, however there is no obligation  for 
them to do so and when they decided  to consider the Harlequin investment in more detail 
and give Ms S further information they spoke to her on the phone which would have given 
Ms S the opportunity  to ask questions or raise any doubts she might  have  had. And 
Fairways recommendation letter encouraged  her to get in touch if she had any concerns or 
wanted to discuss  their letter further.
Ms Ss representatives think  Fairway shouldve told Ms S that Mr N was unregulated. I think 
it was reasonable  for Fairway to assume that Ms S was given a reason why a regulated 
financial adviser was needed to be involved and Mr N couldnt  recommend the SIPP himself. 
And even  if they had pointed out that they were  regulated and Mr N wasnt, I dont think this 
necessarily would have  made Ms S place  more weight  on what  Fairway was saying. Mr N 
likely would have appeared a lot more knowledgeable about Harlequin investments 
specifically whereas Fairway admitted they didnt have experience  in overseas property. And 
I think its likely the risks pointed out by Fairway  would have been played down by Mr N. 
On balance I still dont  think that a clear  recommendation  against the transfer  and 
investment would have  dissuaded Ms S from proceeding  with her plans, when a 
recommendation with caveats and clear risk warnings didnt.
Ms Ss representatives say Fairway  didnt  advise on any alternatives. However,  given Ms Ss 
ultimate and very specific objective there  werent many alternatives  for Fairway to explore. 
Miss S didnt approach Fairway for general advice on her pension arrangements.  Fairway 
Ref: DRN115646916was approached with a set plan. Fairway did mention in their letter of 9 August 2011  that 
SIPPs generally held a higher cost than stakeholder or personal pensions,  however in order  
to invest into Harlequin she would need  the flexibility of a SIPP which  was correct. So other  
than not transferring into a SIPP and not investing-which I already agree  should have been 
the recommendation- Im not sure what other alternatives Ms Ss representatives think  
should have been discussed  that would have  changed Ms Ss actions. I dont think  
discussing common alternatives like changing  to a different personal pension or changing 
investments within  her existing plan would have been something Ms S was looking for and I 
dont think it would have  changed Ms Ss plan to invest  into Harlequin.
summary
Fairway should have  given Ms S a clear recommendation not to transfer her pension and 
invest in Harlequin.  However, I still remain of the opinion that on balance  Ms S would  have 
still invested into Harlequin and incurred the same losses,  even if Fairway had acted 
correctly.
Ms S ignored Fairways clear  risk warnings, so Im not persuaded a clear recommendation 
against the transfer would have made her suddenly listen to what  Fairway  was saying. And 
even if this had raised  concerns or doubts,  I think she would have put more weight on what  
Mr N was telling her due to the trusting relationship they had and his likely  ability  to reassure 
her the Harlequin  investment was still a good  idea. 
Ive taken into account the representatives  argument that Ms S thought  the reservation fee 
of £1,000 was refundable and so by changing her mind she wouldnt have lost out 
financially. This might be true. However,  I think the fact that she had committed  to an 
investment with a reservation fee might  be psychologically difficult  to backtrack from given 
that she would also be losing out on the potential gains that appear to have attracted her to 
the investment  in the first place. And together with the loss of a substantial incentive  
payment if the investment didnt go ahead  I think it would have persuaded her to go ahead  
with her plans.
I appreciate that in hindsight it seems logical to rather change  your mind and miss out on 
any incentives rather than lose your entire pension. But I dont think  at the time she would 
have seen it this way. I think its likely Mr N would  have  continued  to clear any possible 
doubts. Its worth remembering that Harlequin  had previously appeared to have provided 
good investment  returns for some people.
I have taken into account the principles  businesses have to follow  and I agree that Fairway 
did have to act in the clients best interest. However, I dont think  this necessarily always  
means refusing  to act altogether. Its possible for clients to proceed on an insistent client 
basis. I think Fairway  suspected Harlequin was encouraging Ms B to invest, so they gave 
her extensive risk warnings and explained the potential consequences of losing all of her 
money. 
Setting aside that they didnt give a clear recommendation,  I think  Fairway took reasonable 
steps to ensure she understood  what she was doing  and wasnt investing without 
understanding the risks of her planned  actions. So if they had given  a clear recommendation 
-without caveats- against the transfer and Ms S still wanted to proceed despite all warnings, I 
think they wouldnt have  acted unfairly by helping her to execute  her wishes. In any event, 
even if Fairway had refused to assist,  I think Ms S wouldve explored alternatives  to invest 
Ref: DRN115646917(with the help of Mr N). She wasnt required to have a recommendation from a financial 
adviser to open  a SIPP and invest in Harlequin.  
On balance I think Ms S would have incurred the same losses  even  if Fairway  had given her 
suitable advice.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1156469