K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has cancelled her motor  
insurance policy from the start (voided  it) and its holding her liable for the costs incurred by 
a named driver  on the policy.  She wants it to pursue the named driver, Mr V.
background
Mr V, a named driver on Miss As policy, hit another  car in the rear. Admiral validated  the 
claim and found that Mr V had undisclosed  driving convictions. It said it wouldnt have 
provided cover if it had been  aware  of this. So it removed  Mr V from the policy and rejected 
the claim.  It then said Miss A was liable for the costs incurred. Miss B said Mr V hadnt told 
her about  the convictions. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  it was 
for Mr V to tell Miss B about the convictions even if he thought they werent  relevant.  The 
investigator thought  the non-disclosure  affected  the policy as a whole. So he thought  Admiral  
hadnt acted unfairly  or wrongly. 
Miss B replied  that she thought shed taken reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation as defined  by the relevant legislation. She thought Mr V had known about  
the offences and should  have told her about them. She thought he should be responsible for 
the costs involved. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Bs experience.  I can understand the financial  implications  of 
Admirals decision are significant for her. I can also understand  that she feels  its unfair for 
Admiral to pursue  her for its outlay.  But Im unable to uphold  her complaint. Ill now explain 
why I think this.  
When Admiral  validated  the claim, it came to light that Mr V had an undisclosed IN10 
conviction for driving whilst uninsured when Miss B renewed her policy in 2017.  It said it 
wouldnt have offered cover if it had known of this. So it told Miss B that it would  void the 
policy and decline the claim. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the non-disclosure.  
Admiral has shown us when Miss B first took out her policy  it asked her to tell it about any 
motoring offences  for any drivers on the policy  within  the past five years. She said there 
were none.  And it showed that when  she renewed her policy in 2017 it asked her to check 
that this information was correct. But it said Miss B didnt tell it about  Mr Vs recent offences. 
Ive looked at the renewal pack seen to Miss B. I think there is a clear question  asking if any 
drivers on the policy have  had any motoring offences. None are recorded on the renewal. 
And I think it was for Miss B to provide the correct information. 
Ref: DRN16257962Admiral said it wouldnt  have provided cover if it had known about Mr Vs IN10  conviction. Its 
provided us with evidence from its underwriters  to show that if Mr Vs IN10  had been 
declared, then cover  would have  been  declined. 
Miss B said shed taken  reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation. She said Mr V 
didnt know he had convictions or unpaid  fines on his EU licence. 
Under the relevant legislation, Miss B is obliged to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when providing information  to Admiral. Admiral said it was Miss Bs 
responsibility to ensure  that the information  provided  on the policy, including  Mr Vs 
conviction, was correct. I can see that this is set out in the policy terms and conditions under 
General Condition 1 Your  Duties. 
Miss B said she didnt tell Admiral about Mr Vs two motoring offences because  she didnt 
know about them. She later said, amongst other points,  that shed asked Mr V about his 
licence at renewal  and hed said it was fine. She pointed  out that Mr V didnt avoid the 
licence check arranged  by Admiral. She said she knew about a more  recent  offence  and was 
going to tell Admiral  about this at the next renewal. 
But I think it would have  been reasonable for Miss B to check  that Mr V didnt have  any 
motoring offences  on his licence. I think she misplaced her trust or they were  both ignorant  
of the relevance  of the offences.  I think Mr V should reasonably have known about his 
conviction. He was likely to have had some  correspondence about it and he was likely to 
have been stopped by the police. Miss B said shed  asked Mr V about his offences. But I 
dont have any independent evidence to show  this. So I think Miss B made  a careless  
misrepresentation as she didnt  know the information she was providing was untrue. 
In that case I think Admiral is entitled  under  the relevant legislation  to cancel the policy from 
the 2017 renewal  as its shown that Miss B should have then disclosed the motoring 
offences and it wouldnt then have provided cover. Admiral decided to apply the voidance  
just to Mr V and to remove  him from the policy  at the last renewal. So, from what I can see, 
the policy is still in place for Miss B and she neednt declare the cancellation to future  
insurers. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Admirals also entitled  to decline the claim as Mr V was driving at the time. And, under  the 
policys terms and conditions, Admiral  is entitled  to recover its outlay for the other drivers 
claim from Miss B, the policyholder. So I cant say that Admiral  has done  anything wrong as 
its applied the policy terms.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1625796