K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss B bought  the policy  in 2001  at the same time as taking  out a credit  card in a branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Bs credit card application had a section for PPI. There  was a box Miss B could tick and 
a place to sign if she wanted it, which could be left blank if she didnt  want  it. The box was 
ticked and Miss B signed specifically for PPI, separately to signing for the application  as a 
whole. So I think that Halifax made  Miss B aware  she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss B, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. While Miss B 
said she had good sick pay through work,  the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of that and given 
her more comprehensive cover  especially  when  her sick pay reduced to just half pay. And 
Miss B doesnt seem to have had any other  significant cover  in case  she lost her job, which 
was always a possibility.
I understand Miss Bs partner may have been more than willing to help, but circumstances 
change and there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, 
this card was Miss Bs sole responsibility, and I dont think it wouldve been suitable  for 
Halifax to have recommended  she rely on someone else to pay it. Whereas the PPI meant 
Miss B wouldnt have to ask her partner to pay her credit card. Lastly, I understand Miss B 
had another insurance policy, but that covered different things and wasnt relevant here. 
Overall, I think the PPI couldve been useful for Miss B in case she fell on difficult  times.
Ref: DRN11979622Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Miss B about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Miss B chose  to take out the policy - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations, and it would have been  useful for Miss B if something 
went wrong. And the policy  was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Miss B could cancel  it at 
any time without a penalty. So taking  everything into account,  I dont think  better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Ive taken into account Miss Bs comments that she was given a refund for other PPI 
policies. And I understand where  shes coming  from. But different PPI policies worked in 
different ways, and were  sold using different methods at different times. So just because one 
policy was mis-sold, it doesnt  necessarily  mean  that a different one was too. Ive explained 
above why I dont think that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1197962