K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he got poor customer service  from Santander UK Plc. He would like to 
be compensated for the distress  and inconvenience caused by this. 
background
On 20 June 2018, Mr P received a SMS text message at 7.15am from the bank saying that 
he had insufficient  funds in his account  to meet a direct debit payment that would be going  
out that day. He was told to act or he may incur charges  and/or  interest.  
Mr P had planned to meet  friends that day as it was his birthday.  He was supposed to travel  
by train at 9.00am  but decided  that he had to sort this matter  out. He called the bank and 
spoke to an adviser. He explained that he had set up a transfer from another of his accounts 
to go into his account on the 20 June  2018 to meet the payment that was due to be taken  
from his account. The adviser repeated a number  of times that Mr P had now transferred the 
funds to his account so there would be no charges or interest applied. But, he didnt appear 
to understand  Mr P telling  him that he had set up the transfer in advance. 
Mr P asked to be transferred to customer services. He made a complaint regarding  the 
advisers poor service.  He didnt think that he shouldve been called his first name  by the 
adviser. He also didnt know why the SMS  text message had been sent as he hadnt asked 
for this service. He was told that he had set it up. 
The bank considered the complaint and found that there had been  poor customer  service. 
They offered  Mr P £30 compensation.  
Mr P didnt accept this compensation and thought that he should get more. He brought  the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that, although  the service provided  
by the bank couldve been better,  an apology wouldve been enough. But, as the bank had 
offered £30 compensation, she thought it only fair that they pay it if Mr P wanted it. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr P wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that the bank has done  
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
I have listened  to the call between the bank and Mr P. I think  that the service couldve been  
better. It is clear that the adviser didnt understand that Mr P had already set up a transfer in 
advance, even though  Mr P tried to explain this a number of times. 
The adviser did refer to Mr P by his first name and I can understand how this might have 
been unacceptable to Mr P  especially as the adviser referred to him as Mr P when he put 
Mr P through to complaints. But, I think that Mr P shouldve  asked to adviser to call him 
Mr P. 
Ref: DRN19392592Regarding the transfer itself, I think that the bank explained very well that the transfer 
shouldve been  set up to be actioned the day before the payment was due. This was 
because the bank couldnt be sure when the direct  debit wouldve been taken as it was out 
of their control. 
Mr P wasnt  happy about the SMS  text message as he says he hadnt signed up for these. 
Our investigator pointed  out that the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account  allow  for SMS  
text messages to be sent. If customers dont want them,  they need to opt out. I have read 
the terms and conditions of the account  and agree. So, I dont think  that the bank was at 
fault for sending the message. I take Mr Ps point that he hasnt ever received one before. 
But, this could simply be because the transfer had gone through  before the direct debit was 
taken. 
Mr P says that he didnt  get the promised  letter from the bank after he had spoken to 
customer services.  I have  checked the banks file and see that a letter was sent on 20 June 
2018. I appreciate  that Mr P might  not have got it, but this isnt the banks fault.
Mr P says that his plans  for the day were ruined. I am sorry that they were but, I cant hold 
the bank responsible for this.  
I understand that this isnt the decision that Mr P was looking for. I appreciate that he takes 
his finances seriously  when  he says that he doesnt  spend money that he doesnt have. But, 
I dont think the bank needs  to do anymore than they have already. 
my final decision
I dont think that Santander UK Plc has done anything wrong. As they have offered Mr P £30 
already, I think that they should  re-offer this money again. I dont require them to do anything  
else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1939259