K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that their requests for a lower interest rate and a term extension  
have been ignored. They feel the arrears on their account are due to being overcharged 
interest and discriminatory treatment  by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage for £170,000 with Barclays  in May 2005. This was due to 
be repaid over a 13 year term. Interest was charged  initially at a fixed  rate of 5.39%, which 
ended in June  2007. Following this, interest was due to be charged at Barclays Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR), which was 6.79% at the time this mortgage was taken out. 
At the same time as taking out their main mortgage,  Mr and Mrs G were  also provided  with a 
reserve account of £40,000. The interest rate applicable  to this account  is Barclays SVR.
In February 2006,  Mr and Mrs G applied for further borrowing of £20,000. This was taken  out 
over a term of 12 years  5 months. Interest on this part of their mortgage was charged at a 
fixed rate of 4.79%, which ended in March  2008.  After it ended,  a variable rate of 0.95% 
above Barclays Base Rate applied  a total of 5.45% at the time of this loan.
Due to the mortgage falling into arrears,  Barclays sought litigation action in 2009. A court 
hearing took place  on 4 November 2009 and a Suspended  Possession Order (SPO) was 
granted. Mr G became  unwell in 2010  and his business was struggling. Because of the 
difficulties he and Mrs G were  facing, this led to further arrears. 
Mr and Mrs G have had concerns about the interest  rate applied  to their mortgage  accounts 
for a number of years. They asked to change this and extend the term of their mortgage.  But 
neither of these  changes  have been carried out. And their mortgage term has now ended. I 
note that they have  paid off the £20,000 loan they took out in February 2006.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to Barclays in 2017.  They  complained  that theyve been 
overcharged high levels of interest  on their accounts  for a number of years. They  were  also 
unhappy as they felt Barclays had ignored their requests for an interest rate change  and 
term extension.  They  feel this has caused the arrears on their account.
On 9 August  2017 Barclays issued a final response  to Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about the 
interest rate and term extension. They said their retentions team  had tried to contact 
Mr and Mrs G about  changing their rate, but they didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs G. 
Barclays said the service they provided couldve been better and offered to pay £300 to 
Mr and Mrs G to recognise  this. In light of Mr Gs circumstances at the time, Barclays  also 
arranged for Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage account to be managed by a specialist team.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with Barclays response and brought  their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but she didnt think  Barclays had acted unreasonably. She 
said there wasnt anything  more she wouldve expected Barclays  to do.
Mr G, who is leading the complaint, asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. So it 
has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN15724002My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to say how sorry I am to see that Mr G has been  unwell  for a number of years. 
This along with the financial difficulties Mr and Mrs G have faced  has clearly caused  a 
difficult time for them.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr and Mrs G have said and I know  they feel 
very strongly  about their complaint. They have provided additional comments  in support of 
their views which I can confirm Ive read and considered  in their entirety. However, I trust 
that Mr and Mrs G will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my decision is to 
set out my conclusions and reasons  for reaching  them.
Mr and Mrs G have had concerns about the interest  rate applied  to their mortgage  accounts 
for a number of years. Theyve referred to some letters they sent to Barclays  about  their 
interest rate, some of which Barclays appear to have received,  others  they havent. What  
I can see though  is that they were in arrears  at the times they have queried their interest  
rate, or asked for it to be reduced and a term extension  to be granted. And it seems these 
requests were made  by Mr G understandably, in order to reduce their outgoings.
Barclays have explained in their response to our service that the arrears position wouldve 
limited what options  were available  if any  in terms of a different interest rate. In my 
experience this is not unusual practice across  the mortgage industry, as tying a consumer 
into a deal could  mean further costs are incurred  should repossession  happen  at a later 
date. It can also limit the options  available to consumers in situations where they decide  to 
sell or seek alternative finance  to repay  their mortgage. 
Based on this, I dont  think  its unfair that Barclays didnt put Mr and Mrs G on a new interest 
rate. Mr and Mrs G were already in arrears and the risk of tying  them up into another product 
and then incurring  further fees to come out of it if they had to, wouldnt have been the right 
thing to do. In addition  to this, because of the amount of arrears  Mr and Mrs G were in, 
switching them to another interest rate still wouldnt have made a difference  they would 
have still been  arrears on their mortgage  and a new interest rate wouldnt have changed  this.
At the end of 2012, during a telephone call, Mr and Mrs G asked  about  extending  their 
mortgage term and changing their interest rate. Barclays said Mr and Mrs G would need to 
speak with their retentions team about applying for a new interest rate. They  arranged  for 
someone from that team to call Mr and Mrs G back. The contact notes suggest that a 
number of voicemail messages were left for Mr G during February  and March  2013. They  
also show a letter was sent to Mr G on 15 April 2013  asking him to call them.
Further attempts to call Mr G were made in May, July and September  2013 and Barclays left 
voicemail messages  for him. I can see that Mr G called on 26 October 2013 and Barclays 
arranged for the relevant team to call him back.  Barclays attempted  to call Mr G again  after 
this, but they were  unable to reach him. 
Ref: DRN15724003In the years  that followed Mr and Mrs G sent further letters  to Barclays. These included their 
letters of complaint about the interest  rates and term extension, along with requests for help 
from Barclays. They also discussed their circumstances with field agents sent by Barclays to 
find a way to bring things  back  on track.  But Ive not seen any evidence  to show that 
Mr or Mrs G contacted Barclays retentions team to discuss  a new rate.
I accept a lower interest rate and longer  term wouldve led to lower monthly repayments. But 
that doesnt mean Barclays were obliged to agree to Mr and Mrs Gs requests, particularly 
without first discussing them. In any case, Barclays attempted to discuss this with Mr G to 
see if it was something they could  agree  to. They made a number of attempts to contact him 
about changing the interest rate and the requested  term extension. And, like our investigator, 
I wouldnt have expected Barclays to do anything more than they did. 
Overall, Im satisfied the actions Barclays took, when trying to consider  the interest rate and 
term extension,  were fair in the individual  circumstances of this case.
I can appreciate the circumstances  which  led to the arrears have been very difficult for 
Mr and Mrs G and their family. But from the information Ive seen, I cannot  agree that the 
arrears were  as a result of Barclays actions  in relation  to the requested interest rate 
change and term extension.
Mr and Mrs G have said theyve received discriminatory treatment from Barclays. Ive 
thought carefully  about this and I havent seen anything to suggest this is the case. As I have 
explained, Barclays tried to contact Mr G to discuss his requests, but were ultimately unable 
to reach  him. This is not, in my view,  an act of discrimination.
Mr and Mrs G have also said they are unhappy with the interest and charges that have been  
applied to their account. Generally, where a mortgage is in arrears, we would expect a 
lender to carry out some additional  work to try and bring the account back up to date. So 
some fees and charges would be expected. Ive looked at the statements and I do think  that 
some charges have  been applied incorrectly. There are months where Mr and Mrs G have 
made their contractual monthly payment,  and sometimes theyve paid more  than they 
needed to. But Barclays still charged  them. However, I can see that the majority of these 
fees have been refunded by Barclays and I think  the ones that remain  were fairly applied.  
This is because, in those months, Mr and Mrs G didnt make a payment  or didnt pay 
enough.  
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly  about this matter, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint. I note that Barclays offered to pay £300 to Mr and Mrs G in their final 
response letter from August 2017. In the circumstances Im not going to ask Barclays  to 
increase this offer.
I think Mr and Mrs G should keep an open  dialogue  with Barclays in order  to discuss how the 
outstanding balance will be repaid. Our investigator  provided Mr and Mrs G with some 
contact numbers for some organisations that may be able to provide some support to them.  
Mr and Mrs G may want to consider  contacting them for guidance,  as well as keeping  in 
contact with Barclays.
Ref: DRN15724004My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. But should  Mr and Mrs G accept 
my decision,  Barclays should pay them £300 as offered in their final response  if they have 
not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1572400