K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Ms L complain  that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed  to properly consider 
reducing the premiums  on their life policy following a change  in Ms Ls smoker  status.
background
The background to the complaint was set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I felt the complaint should be upheld. 
I explained that I thought  the policy terms gave a clear indication that in the event of a 
change in smoker  status and if duly informed  of such, Aviva  would go through a process of 
considering the change, which could potentially lead to a reduction  in premium. I could 
therefore see why Mr B and Ms L, as smokers who intended to give up, wouldve been 
attracted to the policy in the first place. 
I stressed that there  would potentially have been  a reduction in premium as it hadnt  been 
suggested that a change  in smoker status would  automatically reduce the premiums. But I 
didnt think it was fair for Aviva to reserve the right to take the action and then, when its 
instructions were followed by the policyholder, to then say there  were  no circumstances in 
which a change in smoker status alone could lead to a change in premium.  
I agreed that by doing so, Aviva was effectively changing the terms of the policy. I explained  
that I could  understand why, over the years, it might have chosen to change  its approach  to 
how it treated a change  in smoker status. But I didnt think  it could simply choose to overlook 
the terms of the policy as a result.
That said,  I didnt think it followed that I could reasonably direct Aviva to reduce the policy  
premiums. Ideally I felt Aviva should do as the terms of the policy  indicated  and properly 
consider the cost of the cover its providing to Mr B and Ms L in light of her (and possibly 
Mr B) no longer being a smoker.  
But in any event, I thought the way in which Aviva had handled the issue  had caused Mr B 
and Ms L trouble and upset for which they should  be compensated. I proposed that Aviva  
pay them  a total of £400 to reflect this.         
In response to my provisional decision Aviva stressed that the policy  terms didnt say that 
the premiums would definitely  be reduced as a result of a change in smoker status. But it did 
understand how Mr B and Ms L might  have reached that conclusion. It indicated that Aviva 
would now be prepared  to give consideration to a reduction in premium. But it later changed 
its position, saying  this was not in fact something  it would consider.  
Ms L reiterated her unhappiness with Aviva failing  to exercise its discretion as set out in the 
policy terms, both when  originally approached  in 2011 and when she asked again in 2017. 
She stressed that she and Mr B wouldnt have taken  out the policy  if theyd been aware that 
there was no potential for a reduction in premiums.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ref: DRN15761772I remain of the view that the complaint  should  be upheld  and compensation totalling  £400 be 
paid to Mr B and Ms L.
Its disappointing that having  indicated  that consideration  would now be given to the change  
in Mr B and Ms Ls circumstances Aviva has then chosen not to give consideration and, 
further, not to provide any alternative  solutions. I fail to see why, in light of its 
acknowledgement of Mr B and Ms Ls concerns,  it hasnt been more pro-active in helping 
them. 
But, it remains the case that even if consideration had been given to the change in smoker 
status, in line with the policy terms, theres no guarantee  that Mr B and Ms Ls premiums 
would have reduced. Even if theyd opted not to take out this policy in the first place theres 
no way to reasonably  determine what they might  have  paid for alternative cover and whether 
that cover  might  have  been amended in line with a change in smoker status. 
So, in all the circumstances,  I still think the fairest way to put things right is for Aviva  to pay 
compensation to acknowledge  the trouble and upset its actions have caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva  Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr B and Ms L compensation of £400 in total, to include the 
£100 already offered if thats not already been paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15761773COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr B and Ms L complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to properly consider reducing 
the premiums on their life policy following a change in Ms Ls smoker  status.
background
Ms L has explained  that when  she and Mr B took out the policy in 2003 they were attracted by the fact 
that Aviva would consider  a future change in smoker  status and, as a result,  the policy  premiums 
might be reduced.  Ms L has said that she always  intended to stop smoking during  the term of the 
policy so this potential flexibility on Avivas part was appealing. 
In December 2011 she telephoned Aviva to explain  that she had stopped smoking.  But she was told it 
wasnt in fact possible to change  the policy  premiums based upon smoker status alone.
Sometime later, in September  2017,  Ms L complained  to Aviva  about  this. In response, it 
acknowledged that the 2011 call hadnt been  handled well  shed  been given an incorrect definition 
of non-smoker status and hadnt been  alerted to some steps she could  take in respect of getting  the 
cover underwritten again.  It offered £100 for these failings. 
But Aviva  didnt accept it had done anything wrong in respect of Ms Ls change of smoker status.  It 
said that although the terms and conditions of the policy outlined that Aviva reserved  the right to 
consider an increase or decrease in premiums as appropriate, its underwriting approach  was  as the 
2011 call had confirmed   to not change premiums in respect  of a change  in smoker status  alone.    
Ms L wasnt satisfied with this response, so referred the complaint  to us. Our investigator didnt think  
that it should  be upheld. He said, in brief, that nothing in the policy documentation  said that a change 
in smoking status  would  definitely reduce the premiums. Rather, it said Aviva may reduce the 
premium and that it reserves this right.
Ms L didnt accept this. She noted that the policy terms and conditions reserved the right for Aviva to 
increase or decrease premiums upon a change in smoker status. She considered that if a company  
reserves discretions  that could operate favourably toward them  or the consumer, they should  be 
exercised reasonably. Ms L highlighted that at no point had Aviva exercised the discretion as it hadnt 
even considered the change in smoking status.  In short, Aviva had effectively  changed the terms of 
the policy  with a view towards pushing  her and Mr B towards  changing the policy or starting a new 
one.
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to that reached 
by the investigator. I currently think the complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
So far, it seems that both our investigator and Aviva have failed to really address  the crux of Mr B and 
Ms Ls complaint. Ms L hasnt directly  said that she expected  a change  in either her or Mr Bs smoker 
status to lead automatically to a reduction in their premiums (although I note that her required 
resolution to the complaint  is to reduce  premiums  and refund the difference paid since 2011). Rather, 
she says she expected consideration  to be given  to the change in smoker  status and, it follows, a 
reasoned explanation from Aviva as to why that consideration did or didnt  lead to a change  in 
premiums.   
Ref: DRN15761774Having looked at the documentation  associated with the policy, it seems clear to me that it was 
reasonable for Mr B and Ms L to expect Aviva to at least consider the change  in smoker status. 
Indeed, the key features  document said; 
If you become a non-smoker we may reduce your premiums. Please contact us to consider this. We 
regard a non-smoker as someone who has not used any tobacco products in the last 12 months.
The terms  of the policy formalised this by saying; 
The planholder must notify the company  of any change in risk relating to the life assured. Change of 
risk includes  a change  in smoking status
The company reserves the right in line with reasonable underwriting practice, to take the following  
action: - 
(i) In respect  of a change in smoking status to increase or reduce the Premium as 
appropriate
I think  this gives a clear indication  that in the event of a change  in smoker status  and duly informed of 
such, Aviva will go through a process that may lead to a reduction in premium.  I can therefore  see 
why Mr B and Ms L, as smokers who intended to give up, would  have been attracted to the policy. 
I have stressed above that there  may have been a reduction in premium. As noted, it hasnt been 
suggested that a change in smoker status would  reduce premiums by default. But I dont think  its fair 
for Aviva to reserve the right to take the action and then,  when its instructions are followed by the 
policyholder, to then say that there are no circumstances  in which a change in smoker  status alone 
could lead to a change  in premium. 
I agree that by doing so, Aviva is effectively  changing  the terms  of the policy. I can understand why, 
over the years, it might  have chosen  to change its approach to how it treats a change  in smoker 
status. But I dont think it can simply  choose to overlook  the terms of the policy  as a result.  I note what  
its said about  the flexibility built in to the policy  for instance, that the sum assured can be changed 
and the change underwritten  using  the policyholders current  circumstances. But thats a separate 
issue to that raised by Ms L. 
That all said, in upholding the complaint for the reasons set out above,  I dont think it follows that I can 
reasonably direct Aviva  to reduce the policy  premiums.  Ideally  I think Aviva should  do as the terms of 
the policy  indicate and consider the cost of the cover its providing to Mr B and Ms L in light of her 
(and possibly  Mr B) no longer smoking. 
If it has no mechanism by which it can do this in line with the policy  terms then it may be that an 
alternative solution based  upon  Mr B and Ms Ls current protection  needs could be found.  Id invite 
suggestions in this respect  in response to this provisional decision. Ultimately, however, I must 
reiterate that I dont  think a change in premium can be forced upon Aviva.  
But further to that, I think the way that Aviva has handled the issue has caused Mr B and Ms L trouble 
and upset for which they should be compensated. I therefore propose that Aviva pay them a total of 
£400 to reflect this.          
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently of the view 
that the complaint should be upheld and Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  should  pay Mr B and Ms L 
a total of £400  (to include  the £100 already  offered) for the trouble  and upset  the matter has caused to 
them.
Ref: DRN1576177