K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that he was given unsuitable advice by Capitas IFA Limited (Capitas)  
in 2010 to transfer out of his executive  pension plans (EPPs) and invest in a personal 
pension and investment bond  with MetLife.  Mr Ds wife has made a similar complaint which 
is now being dealt  with under separate reference. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February  2020.  Ive attached it and it forms part of this 
decision. 
Capitas accepted my provisional decision. It made a couple of points.  
Mr D couldnt have  taken tax free cash of 25% from the EPP  the only way he could 
access the full 25% was to transfer to a personal pension. He planned  to use the tax 
free cash  to supplement his income. Although he was expecting to receive some 
lump sums (from the repayment  of debts owed to him by family  members), Capitas 
considered it wise to maintain maximum flexibility by having the maximum tax free 
cash available.
When Mr D might retire had been discussed.  Hed been a client  of Capitas for many  
years. His preferred  retirement age had been  age 60 but it became increasingly clear 
that age 65 would be more realistic. In 2003 one of Mr Ds EPPs  was rewritten (from 
age 60) to age 65. In 2010 Mr Ds plan was to retire  as soon as possible although he 
wouldnt be able to afford to do so before  his state pension would be paid  then only 
three and a half years away.  The uncertainty as to how soon  hed be able to retire 
meant it was essential to safeguard the value of the income potential of the tax free 
cash and at a time when markets remained volatile. 
The dramatic market falls happening  now illustrate the rationale for the advice. 
Investors have been taken by surprise and had no time to move  their money out of 
the markets. Some investors  will have to delay their retirements or reduce  or defer  
their income to conserve their pension  pots. 
Mr D was understandably disappointed that I hadnt upheld his complaint. He didnt make 
any further comments or offer any new evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the further  points  made by Capitas,  including what its said about the timing of Mr Ds 
retirement having been discussed. It seems that was going to be, at the earliest, when Mr D 
was able to draw his state pension  age 65. But I think  there  was always the possibility that 
it could be later. And, as things turned out, Mr D didnt retire  he was 68. So I still think  theres 
some question about securing Mr Ds income  when his retirement  was still some years off. 
And Id have preferred to have seen  that covered in the recommendation letter. But, and as 
Ive said in my provisional decision,  it seems Mr Ds priority was to guarantee his retirement  
income. 
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments my views remain as set out in my 
attached provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN16871762Im unable to uphold Mr Ds complaint and so Im not making  any award.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN16871763PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 27 February 2020
complaint
Mr D has complained that he was given unsuitable advice by Capitas IFA Limited (Capitas)  
in 2010 to transfer out of his executive  pension plans (EPPs) and invest in a personal 
pension and investment bond  with MetLife.  Mr Ds wife has made a similar complaint which 
is now being dealt  with under separate reference. 
background
Mr D had two EPPs, one with Zurich and another with Standard  Life. The Zurich policy had 
been written with a selected retirement  age of 60.  Mr D and his wife sought advice from 
Capitas in October 2010 by which time he was 61. They  completed  a confidential financial 
review form (fact find), a retirement options  client attitude questionnaire (the questionnaire) 
and a risk profiler. Capitas wrote to Mr D and his wife on 19 November 2010  with its 
recommendations. Capitas advised Mr D to transfer both EPPs  to a personal pension  with 
MetLife and invest in its Cautious  Index Secure Income Option fund. Then, once transferred, 
Mr D should take 25% of the fund value  as tax free cash and invest  it in a MetLife Secure 
Income Bond. 
Mr Ds only other pension  provision was a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC).  The fund was 
relatively small (less than £10,000) but the guaranteed annuity rates were considerably 
higher than the prevailing rates. Capitas recommended Mr D retain  that pension. 
Mr D agreed to what Capitas had recommended and the EPP transfers went ahead in the 
first week  of December 2010.  The tax free cash element was then deducted from the 
pension plan and invested in the bond on 21 December 2010. 
In 2017 Mr D was going  to retire  and revisited his pension arrangements with a new adviser. 
He was advised he might have  been better off and had greater, more tax efficient benefits,  if 
hed retained his existing EPPs. Mr D looked into things further and concluded hed been 
given unsuitable  advice in 2010. He complained to Capitas. 
Capitas didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the advice had been appropriate as it was 
intended to secure  a guaranteed income,  which was what  Mr D specifically wanted. Mr D 
referred his complaint to us. Ive summarised below how our investigation has progressed. 
was the complaint made in time?
As the advice Mr D was complaining about  had been given more than six years earlier we 
asked Capitas if it consented to us dealing  with the complaint. Capitas said the complaint 
had been made too late. Our adjudicator didnt agree. He said the complaint was about 
advice given in 2010 which was more  than six years ago. But he didnt think Mr D ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware he had cause for complaint  more  than three  years  before he 
made his complaint (in October 2017). 
Capitas didnt accept  that and the complaint was referred to me. I issued a jurisdiction 
decision on 11 December 2018. I set out the relevant Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule  DISP  
2.8.2R (2). Broadly it says we cant consider a complaint referred  to us more than six years  
Ref: DRN16871764after the event  complained of; or (if later) more than three  years  from when the complainant 
became aware  (or ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
Mr D complained in 2017  about advice given in 2010. That was outside  the primary six year 
period. But I said hed complained within three  years  of when  he became aware he had 
cause for complaint. I didnt think there was anything which ought reasonably  to have made  
him aware  earlier he had cause for complaint. The query hed raised in 2014 wasnt a 
complaint and so didnt  demonstrate he was aware  then the advice might not have been 
suitable.   
our investigation  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the merits of the complaint. She issued her view on 10 
January 2019,  upholding the complaint in part. She didnt  think  the advice to transfer from 
the EPPs to the new arrangement was unsuitable.  But she said Mr D shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer the tax free cash to the bond. 
Mr D accepted the adjudicators view. He told us that he and his wife had recently needed a 
significant amount  of money to help out a family member. Had the tax free cash  still been 
available in the pension they could have accessed the money without any tax implications. 
But, as the money  was held in the bond, they were likely to incur a tax charge. Mr D later 
added that the main  issue was the withdrawal  of the tax free cash and investment in the 
bond. He said hed queried  the amount of commission generated. The adviser had offered a 
refund which  Mr D hadnt taken.
Mr D also said his retirement was some way off in 2010.  He didnt really understand the 
guarantee but he wanted a secure  low risk pension in a tax efficient environment. He now 
thought hed have been better off keeping his money in the pension  as he was now liable  for 
tax on withdrawals from the bond  over 5% pa. And the amount of tax free cash  had been  
restricted. 
Capitas disagreed with what the adjudicator had said. To summarise  Capitas main points:
The adjudicator  had wrongly relied  on a conversation Mr D apparently  had with one 
of his former providers  whod  told him hed have  been better off leaving his pension 
where it was. 
The adjudicator  had also placed too much weight on Mr Ds attitude to risk and had 
ignored contemporaneous documentation  (such  as the questionnaire) which  set out 
Mr Ds and his wifes  priorities  to secure the amount of retirement income from all 
sources against investment market movements and use the tax free cash  to 
supplement their income.
The tax free cash amount wasnt protected so if the fund value fell so would the tax 
free cash  and the amount of income available from that source. The aim was to 
ensure that potential  future income  was protected. By withdrawing the tax free cash 
and investing  it in the bond it became the secure income base on which future  
income would  be based and which couldnt reduce due to market  movements and 
guaranteed to increase (even if the markets fell) whilst income was deferred. 
Contrary to what the adjudicator  had said, there  was nothing  to suggest Mr D might,  
at times, be a higher rate taxpayer in retirement. 
Mr D hadnt been double charged when  the bond was set up. Hed queried the 
matter in April 2014. Capitas had explained.  Mr D then sent a further email thanking  
Capitas for the clarification which Mr D said makes  sense. 
Ref: DRN16871765Capitas researched the clients circumstances, objectives and preferences.  The 
priority was to secure  the amount  of retirement  income from all sources against 
investment market movements and use the tax free cash  to supplement the income.  
Guaranteeing the best possible future retirement  income against market  falls was the 
priority and the MetLife pension and bond was the only way to do that  it was a 
unique product and an entirely  suitable recommendation. 
Capitas later made some further comments,  in the main, about our process  and how the 
adjudicator had dealt with the complaint. 
The adjudicator issued a revised view on 2 April 2019. She maintained that investing the tax 
free cash  in the bond wasnt suitable. And she said the advice to transfer out of the EPPs  
wasnt suitable either. Both EPPs were relatively inexpensive. The new MetLife  pension  had 
higher overall  charges. Mr D was a cautious  to medium  risk investor. His existing EPP funds 
were invested appropriately  in cautious managed funds.  The secure income  option  offered a 
base level income  guarantee. But it cost an additional 1.4% pa and the guarantee only 
worked if Mr D remained  with MetLife.  He could  have  been directed to cheaper  funds  that 
matched his attitude to risk and desire  for security within his existing plans and which  would 
have left his options open when he came to retire. This fund choice could  have been  
reviewed if and when  Mr D became happy  to invest in more growth oriented funds. 
Capitas replied by letter dated 7 May 2019 with enclosures. Capitas reiterated  some of what  
it had said earlier (and which  it felt the adjudicator hadnt taken into account) including the 
advisers research; the importance of the questionnaire and fact find; Mr Ds and his wifes 
plans to use the tax free cash to supplement their income and their need for the income it 
could provide to be secure and guaranteed; and their expectation that theyd  get some lump  
sums (repayment of loans theyd made to their children). Capitas also said:
MetLifes charges  were higher. But the guarantees  were  unique. Guaranteed income 
is paid from both the pension and the bond for the lifespan  of the investor, no matter  
how long he or she may live and even  if the fund is entirely  depleted. Whilst income 
is deferred the secure income base is guaranteed  to increase. Growth is locked in 
until the investor starts to draw income,  even if markets decline. The percentage 
income level will never  decrease.  And the charges  were set out in the suitability letter 
and illustrations. Mr D went ahead because he wanted the guarantees. Lower risk 
funds could have  fallen in value and didnt carry any guarantees. 
Mr D and his wifes  pension funds werent large.  Market volatility  could reduce the 
funds and the income theyd provide substantially  and quickly if there were no 
guarantees. Having  a guaranteed income  at retirement was fundamentally important. 
The adjudicators  conclusions reflected what Mr D said now, rather than the facts at 
the time.  If hed since changed his mind or been  influenced by his new adviser that 
had no bearing  on the advice given  in 2010.  And Mr D wasnt  complaining about the 
transfers, just about the investment of the tax free cash  in the bond.
Mr D and his wife had made it very clear they wanted a secure,  guaranteed,  income,  
given the recession  and the possibility of further  economic  downturns.  If the markets 
fell the guaranteed income from the pension would be protected but not the tax free 
cash. If the fund value  fell so would the tax free cash and with it the income available 
from that portion  of the fund. The only way to protect that income was to withdraw the 
cash and invest it in the bond.  
We shared Capitas comments with Mr D. He said the main issue  (and which  had prompted 
the complaint)  was the recommendation  to take the tax free cash and invest it in the bond   
Ref: DRN16871766which offered exactly the same guaranteed income terms. Mr D said if the tax free cash  had 
remained in the pension it would still have benefitted from the guaranteed income and he 
could have taken  it as and when he and his wife needed it, with no tax implications. And the 
adviser had admitted that the two products meant  hed received more  commission.  
In response Capitas said Mr D and his wife were  only complaining about taking the tax free 
cash and investing  it in the bond. Capitas repeated how the income  potential  of the tax free 
cash was protected  by doing that. The commission  was explained in the email to Mr D dated  
29 April 2014 which he accepted. A second layer of charges hadnt been applied.
The complaint was reviewed by a new adjudicator. He wrote to Capitas to clarify some  
issues. About the tax free cash  the adjudicator said he didnt see that Mr Ds income 
potential was any more  protected in the bond  than it would have been in the pension. The 
secure income base  was calculated at the same rates in the pension  and the bond. Had the 
tax free cash been retained in the pension the same guarantee  would have applied  to the 
income deriving from that sum. 
Capitas didnt disagree. It added, if Mr D and his wife been certain theyd never  want  to take 
the tax free cash, thered have been  no point in transferring  it to the bond and Capitas 
wouldnt have advised doing that. But theyd said they did want  to take the tax free cash  and 
use it to provide more  income. Transferring to the bond kept their options  open. The capital 
remained available if they needed it. If theyd left it in the pension  after theyd crystallised 
and started to withdraw income it would no longer have been available  to them.  And they 
were getting  25% of the fund free of tax which was then invested  in a bond  designed  to 
provide income  on a tax efficient basis. Capitas repeated that the guarantees only applied to 
the income and so leaving the tax free cash in the pension meant, if the fund value fell, the 
tax free cash could  have  been lower and so the income it could  produce  would be lower too. 
Mr D and his wife wanted to use the income from the tax free cash  to supplement their 
pension. The value  of that income  had to be protected (and indeed increased). 
Capitas said it generally charged 3% commission. The procedure  for the transfers  was that 
the total pension fund had to be transferred to MetLife and it would  then pay the pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS). The adviser  knew hed be paid twice  on the PCLS  
amount because that was how MetLifes system operated. So he arranged to take 2.5% 
commission instead which hed calculated would be near enough to rectify the anomaly. This 
was discussed  and shown in the quotations  and other documents  given to Mr D and his wife.  
When Mr D queried the position  in 2014 the adviser  recalculated the figures and found  hed 
received 0.055% (£118.91) more commission than if MetLife  had been  able to adjust the 
commission. Hed told Mr D and his wife in the suitability letter  that hed take 2.5%  of the 
amounts invested,  which is what happened. So he wasnt  under  any obligation to refund 
them. But he decided to offer (as a gesture of goodwill) the difference  with interest.  Mr D 
confirmed he understood and didnt  request payment. The adviser assumed Mr D didnt want 
it to be paid and closed the file. 
Mr Ds closing comments were that neither he nor his wife had retired  or were  looking to 
retire when the advice was given.  They may have said they would like to supplement their 
income (using the tax free cash) once they were retired. But they had no idea of the 
downside of taking  the tax free cash before they actually  needed  it and about the investment 
bond. They  should have been advised  to leave the money in the pension  and delay the 
decision to take the tax free cash until they were looking to retire.
Ref: DRN16871767my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I can see that Capitas  feels very strongly about  the matter and has some concerns about 
how weve handled the complaint, including the time taken. Id also like to offer my apologies  
that its taken us longer than wed have liked to deal with the complaint. A consumer  may tell 
us theyve suffered  stress and anxiety because  their complaint hasnt been resolved. I dont 
doubt that Mr D and his wife have found  the matter stressful. I appreciate the same  can be 
true for our business customers too. Thats especially the case if there are other worries too 
such as illness. 
In the main,  any concerns about  our service will need to be addressed  elsewhere.  But the 
(new) adjudicator did explain  how our process works, including why an adjudicator might 
speak to a consumer over the telephone and why a copy of the adjudicators view is 
provided to both parties even though the eventual outcome may be different. The adjudicator 
also confirmed, if a consumer says part of the advice  wasnt  suitable, it wouldnt be unusual 
for us to consider the suitability of the advice in its entirety. And, as to what Capitas has said 
about important  contemporaneous evidence  not being taken into account or given 
insufficient weight,  Ive considered everything  afresh. 
Ive also noted  what Capitas said about  the complaints being split. But I think that was the 
right decision. Advice may have been  given to Mr D and his wife together. Often  that will be 
convenient and where, as a couple,  their finances are interlinked.   But Mr D and his wifes 
pension entitlements  arent jointly held  each has their own arrangement  in their own name. 
And any redress would need to be paid separately. So I think  the decision to split the 
complaint was correct.  That said, because the complaints centre on the same advice and the 
concerns raised  are the same, my (provisional) decisions are in substance  identical.   
Ive looked first at the transfers  to the MetLife personal pension.  I dont think anything  turns 
on the conversation  referred to by the adjudicator as part of the background to the complaint. 
I dont think there was any suggestion that shed relied on any comment  made  by a provider 
about whether  Mr D should have left his pension where it was. I havent  either.  
The MetLife product  is aimed at meeting the gap between  an annuity (which  provides an 
income payable  for life but capital and flexibility are given up) and other drawdown plans 
where theres a risk (depending on investment  performance, how long the investor lives and 
the level of withdrawals)  the fund will be depleted or exhausted. The MetLife  product offers a 
secure income base   a guaranteed income from the outset. And if the investor doesnt take 
any income its effectively rolled up to provide  future income which can be increased based 
on locked in fund performance and other factors. Theres a separate fund value which can 
fluctuate according to the performance of the underlying investment. 
Capitas has stressed that it was the only product that met Mr Ds express requirements at 
the time.  The questionnaire  (which Mr D and his wife signed on 11 October 2010) records,  
amongst other things,  their priority was to make  sure their income from their retirement 
savings was secure and guaranteed. They  said they wouldnt be happy if external factors  
meant that it fluctuated and they wanted to consider the option of a built in guarantee. The 
suitability letter says Mr D was concerned about  market volatility and the prospect of a 
double dip recession. His priority was to secure  the value of his pension fund and 
guarantee his pension  income, regardless of fluctuating markets. 
Ref: DRN16871768What doesnt  seem  to have been  discussed  (or, if it was, it isnt recorded)  is the timing   that 
is, when Mr D planned to retire. He was 61 at the time of the advice. Theres  a reference  in 
the suitability letter to Mr D reaching  state pension age in the next few years but theres  
nothing to indicate that when he was actually planning to stop working (he and his wife had 
their own company) and would need to access their retirement funds was discussed. 
Mr D says, at the time, his retirement  was still some way off. It wasnt until the end of 
October 2017 that he did retire by which time he was 68. And I think  hes yet to take any 
income from his pension.  So his retirement (in terms of stopping work) was over seven 
years away  when the advice was given  in 2010.  By securing his retirement income  when he 
did he was potentially missing out on several years investment growth  if the markets 
recovered and any further recession was avoided. 
I dont want Capitas to think Ive missed what its been keen to stress throughout  that Mr D 
wanted to guarantee his retirement  income  amid  fears of a further recession. So simply 
leaving his pension arrangements  as they were, or perhaps switching from cautious 
managed funds to lower  risk investments, wouldnt have provided the income guarantees 
MetLife offered  and which at the time was Mr Ds priority. 
But the point Im making is that Mr Ds investment horizon was a relevant consideration. I 
can see why hed want to secure his income if he expected to retire  soon. Hed be keen not 
to suffer  investment falls when  there  wouldnt be time to recover  before he retired.  I dont 
think the position is so clear  cut if his retirement  was still some years  off. In that case Id 
have expected there to have been  some discussion around the timing and that, if Mr Ds 
fears didnt materialise  and investment  conditions  were more favourable, he risked losing out 
on several years of further growth.  And that any possible alternative  strategies, such  as 
moving to lower risk funds, had been  considered and ruled  out.  
But Mr D hasnt said that he wasnt looking for guarantees at the time. And theres no 
suggestion his thinking was driven  by what had been discussed during the advice process.  
The suitability letter is clear that his priority was to guarantee  his retirement  income at that 
stage. I think the suitability letter is also fairly  clear  about how the MetLife product worked 
overall and the costs.  The charges  were  more than Mr Ds existing  EPPs but not, in my view, 
so much higher  that calls into question the suitability  of the product. Mr D was getting  a 
guaranteed income and theres  a cost to that which was made clear. Overall  Im not going  to 
say the recommendation to transfer to the MetLife pension was unsuitable. 
That brings me to the tax free cash and the bond  which I agree has been  Mr Ds focus. 
The questionnaire records that Mr D and his wife were  planning  to use the tax free cash to 
supplement their retirement  income  and that they wanted to protect it against market  
downturns. The suitability letter was fairly brief about  the recommendation to take the tax 
free cash  and invest it in the bond. It said:
Your circumstances and needs might change in the future, so the Plan has been designed 
to be as flexible  as possible. Here's how.
You also preferred  to ensure  that the value of your PCLS  would not be eroded  by any 
downturn in the markets.  Taking into consideration that the provision you have made  within 
pension plans has been insufficient  to provide  you with a substantial level of income, I have 
recommended that the PCLS should be invested  in the MetLife  Investment  Bond  - Secure 
Income Option in order to provide you with a supplementary income when required. Whilst 
Ref: DRN16871769you defer taking income MetLife will increase your Secure  Income  Base by a guaranteed 
minimum rate of 3% of the initial investment every year.
I think that could  imply that the income  derived from the tax free cash  element of the fund 
would only be protected if transferred to a bond.  But, and as Capitas accepts, the income  
guarantees were  the same whether it was left in the pension or transferred to the bond. 
Mr D didnt need to elect to place the monies  in drawdown at the outset. MetLife has 
explained that phased withdrawal was available. The tax free cash  would have  remained 
invested with the rest of the fund. But once the fund had been  designated as being  placed in 
drawdown, and crystallised no further PCLS would be available from the crystallised fund.
So in 2010 Mr D could  have kept his entire  fund uncrystallised and so retained maximum 
lump sum flexibility. If hed then decided,  perhaps  some years later, he wanted to take an 
income from the entire fund then he could have  designated the whole fund to drawdown. In 
that case all the withdrawals would have been treated as income and so taxable.  Or he 
could have taken  the tax free cash then and, assuming he didnt need it as such,  invested  it 
in the bond so that hed get a tax free income source.
The downside of keeping  the tax free cash in the pension was that the amount might  be 
lower  the PCLS that would have been available later could  be more or less than the 
amount that was initially available depending on investment performance up to the time the 
cash is taken out  Mr Ds entitlement was to 25% of the then fund value. And, if the PCLS 
was lower, the guaranteed income  on investment in a bond would be lower than if Mr D had 
taken the tax free cash at the outset and invested it in the bond  and so secured the secure  
income base at that higher value.  
Capitas has stressed that Mr D wanted  to ensure his retirement  income from all sources, 
including the tax free cash portion of his fund, was secure and guaranteed.  The suitability 
letter refers  to Mr D not wanting the value of the tax free cash  to be eroded by any downturn 
in the markets. On that basis, and if Mr D had been  certain hed never need to use the tax 
free cash  other than to supplement his income,  thered have been no point in taking it and 
putting it in the bond   it would have been subject to the same income guarantee as the rest 
of the fund. And, as Mr D has pointed out, accessing  the money if the need arose would 
have been straightforward and wouldnt incur  any income tax liability. 
Its often the case that not all of an investors  competing priorities  can be accommodated. In 
that situation the advice  should explain why the particular product is being recommended 
and how it meets the investors priorities but also any downside to enable  the investor  to 
make an informed choice.  I dont think Mr Ds options regarding the tax free cash were  
explored in any detail. But that doesnt  mean  the advice to take it and invest  it in the bond  
was unsuitable  or that, if Mr D had been given  more information, hed have decided  against 
doing that.  
I think that boils down  to whether he wanted to retain maximum flexibility  to take lump sums 
and was prepared  to forego some security in respect of the tax free cash element of the fund 
(which could fall in value and so with it the income it would provide). But, if he was really  
driven by wanting  to guarantee  his income and he didnt think hed need  to use the tax free 
cash other than to supplement his income, its difficult to see hed have elected  to keep the 
tax free cash within the pension and where,  depending on when  he accessed it, it might  be 
worth less than was initially available to him and so the income (although calculated on the 
same basis  whether in the bond  or in the pension) would be less too. As Ive said, the bond 
Ref: DRN168717610did give some  scope  for withdrawals and Mr D may well have thought that would meet any 
unforeseen needs. 
Mr D might view things differently now. I think thats natural especially given, as things 
turned out, he did need to access some capital  quickly.  But Im not judging the advice with 
the benefit of hindsight.  What I need  to consider  is whether the recommendations were 
suitable at the time, given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives then. 
All in all Im not convinced  the recommendations were unsuitable or that Mr D would have 
decided against  taking the tax free cash and investing it in the bond if things had been 
explained to him in more detail. As Ive said, Im concerned  about  the timeframe.  I can see 
why Mr D considers he should have been encouraged to keep  his options open. But I think 
its difficult to say an adviser should  give that sort of advice if the client  is clear that he wants 
security and income guarantees. 
Lastly I dont think theres  any element of double charging. The adviser  recognised that 
MetLifes charging structure  mean  that commission would,  in effect, be deducted twice  on 
the transfers and then again on the investment of the tax free cash  in the bond.  And the 
adviser adjusted  his commission to take that into account. That by and large worked and the 
adviser offered  to refund with interest  the small overcharge  that resulted. Mr D it seems 
wasnt concerned  and was happy  with the explanation which  I think  was fair enough.
I dont think Mr Ds complaint should  be upheld. I dont doubt that will come as a 
disappointment to him. Especially when hes had two views from an adjudicator,  both of 
which upheld his complaint and which naturally will have  raised  his expectations.  But where 
either or both parties dont  accept  the adjudicators view and the complaint is referred to an 
ombudsman, he or she will carry out a new and independent review of the complaint and 
reach his or her own conclusions about whats happened and may come to a different 
conclusion to the adjudicator.
my provisional decision
I dont uphold the complaint and so Im not making  any award. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687176