K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Amigo Loans  Ltd was irresponsible  when it agreed to lend to 
Mr S and accept Mrs S as the guarantor of the loan.
background
Mr S was given a single  loan by Amigo. He borrowed £3,000  in August 2017 that he agreed 
to repay  in 60 monthly instalments.  Mrs S agreed to act as the guarantor of that loan, and so 
step in should Mr S be unable to make his repayments.
I would normally expect  to deal with the complaints  made  by Mr and Mrs S separately. They  
relate to different actions by Amigo. But Amigo has dealt with the complaint  in a single 
response, and it seems  that it has only received repayments on the loan from Mr S, albeit 
they appear to have  been made from joint household income. So given those very particular 
circumstances I will deal with both the agreement to lend, and the addition of Mrs S as 
guarantor, in a single  decision. I think the reasons that make that possible, and in fact 
desirable, will be clear from the conclusions I reach.
Whilst this Service has been  considering  the complaint, Amigo  has accepted that it shouldnt  
have agreed to provide the loan to Mr S. It says that on reflection the checks  that it did might  
have suggested  that Mr S didnt have sufficient disposable income  to meet  the repayments 
in a sustainable manner. So Amigo offered, in line with the normal  approach of this Service,  
to only require Mr S to repay the capital that hed been lent. It offered to refund any 
payments hed made in excess of that capital and remove any negative  information from 
Mr and Mrs Ss credit  files in relation to the loan.
Mr S didnt accept that offer  he thought  that Amigo should pay some  additional 
compensation to reflect  the trouble and upset that the matter had caused to him and his wife. 
Our adjudicator thought that Amigos offer was reasonable, and that no further  compensation 
was warranted.  So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally,  it has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to complaints 
of this nature on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding  the complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time Amigo decided to lend to Mr S, and add Mrs S as a 
guarantor, required  it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether 
they could afford to repay what was owed  in a sustainable manner. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check and should  be 
separate for both the borrower and the guarantor.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Amigo had to think  about  whether repaying 
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Mr or Mrs S. In 
practice this meant that Amigo had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause 
Mr or Mrs S undue difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
Amigo to simply  think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the 
impact of any repayments on Mr and Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN18205642Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent  upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are borrowing or 
guaranteeing. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  or guarantor might be indebted for 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make repayments  for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
vulnerability and any foreseeable  changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Amigo did what it needed to before agreeing  to lend to 
Mr S, and accept Mrs S as the guarantor.
As I said earlier,  Amigo has agreed  that it shouldnt have given the loan to Mr S. It thinks that 
the information produced by its checks should have  led it to conclude it was unlikely that 
Mr S could meet the repayments  in a sustainable manner. So I dont need to consider that 
part of the complaint any further other than to decide what Amigo  should  do to put things 
right.
Amigo hasnt told us about the checks it did before accepting Mrs S as the guarantor of the 
loan. But Amigo has said that it doesnt think it unreasonable to allow a wife to guarantee her 
husbands loan.  In the specific  circumstances  of this complaint I dont agree.
Mrs S has told us that her income consisted of state  benefits in the form of carers 
allowance. So it seems  to me that she had little way of increasing her income  should  she 
need to. As a family,  Mr and Mrs S were largely  reliant on the income  that Mr S brought into 
the household. And whilst that meant that, when things were going well, Mrs S might  have  
sufficient disposable  income to meet the repayments on the loan,  that wouldnt be the case if 
Mr Ss income came under pressure.
And that is in fact what happened. Around  a year after taking the loan Mr S was made 
redundant. So at that point, the limited income  that Mrs S received became the only source 
of income for the household. It is understandable that Mr S found it difficult to make his 
repayments, and that Mrs S was in no position to make those repayments on his behalf. 
I think that risk of Mrs S being unable to meet  the repayments if required was very 
reasonably foreseeable, and so I dont  think it was reasonable  for Amigo to accept Mrs S as 
guarantor for the loan.
Ref: DRN18205643Ive looked carefully  at how Amigo  managed its relationship with Mr S when he notified it of 
his redundancy.  I can see that Amigo sent Mr S a series of text and email  messages 
encouraging him to make the repayments on the loan that were due. But I can also see that 
Amigo showed a degree of patience when Mr S explained he would be unable to make  
those repayments  under his redundancy compensation  was agreed. And later, when Mr S 
explained that he didnt have any disposable income, it accepted  that he should meet his 
priority household bills in the first instance.
But Amigo  did lend money to Mr S  money  that Mr S has said he thought hed be able to 
repay until he lost his job. So at that time I dont  think it was unreasonable of Amigo  to 
attempt to enforce  the credit agreement that Mr S signed. I appreciate  that the implications 
of that enforcement action might have been severe for Mr S given the industry in which he 
worked, but I havent seen anything that makes me think Amigos actions overstepped what  
I would consider to be fair and reasonable in the recovery  of a debt.
I accept that more recently  Amigo has concluded  that it shouldnt  have given  the loan to 
Mr S. But I dont think that means that is the outcome Amigo  should have reached  at the 
time it originally assessed Mr Ss complaint. In the intervening period Amigo  has received a 
number of decisions from this Service  and under the complaint handling rules it is required  
to learn from those decisions. I think that is most likely what  has happened here  after 
understanding the root cause behind other  upheld  complaints Amigo  concluded that Mr Ss 
complaint might end in a similar outcome and offered to pay him some compensation.
So I dont  think that I should reasonably conclude that Amigos actions, in lending  to Mr S 
and accepting Mrs S as guarantor of the loan, were  so irresponsible  that additional 
compensation is warranted. I think the offer Amigo has made is fair, and I am not going to 
direct the lender to do anything more than that offer.
putting things right
Amigo has accepted  that it shouldnt have  lent to Mr S in August 2017. So to resolve Mr Ss 
part of the complaint, if it hasnt already, Amigo should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr S made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ss loan account as Ive directed results in Mr S effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Amigo should refund  these  
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & 
Customs requires  Amigo to take off tax from this interest. Amigo  must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one 
If reworking Mr Ss loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Amigo that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr S
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan
Ref: DRN18205644In respect of Mrs S, it doesnt appear  that she has made any direct repayments on the loan 
on behalf of her husband  although  clearly the repayments that have been  made  were  
effectively made by them jointly. But I think that aspect of the complaint is covered in the 
compensation I have  directed Amigo to pay to Mr S. So in respect of Mrs Ss part of the 
complaint Amigo should;
Release Mrs S from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminate  it 
Remove any information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in relation to the loan
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Amigo  Loans Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1820564