K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society has unreasonably refused to send him his 
money from a closed account  by cheque or allowed him to transfer his money to a third 
party account .
background
Mr S had money in an off-shore account  that was closed and the money transferred to a 
holding Nationwide  account in the United Kingdom  (UK). Mr S lives in the United States (US) 
and asked Nationwide to either  send  him a cheque for his money  or pay the money into the 
account of a relative in the UK. He says Nationwide refused to do either and that would 
mean having to transfer the money  into US Dollars. Mr S says he would like the money in 
Sterling so that he could use it on his return to the UK. He says Nationwide wouldnt open a 
UK account for him as he doesnt live in the UK.
Nationwide says its policy is that payments in these circumstances  must be by CHAPS  to an 
account in Mr Ss name. It says its unable to send  the money to a third party.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Nationwide had dealt fairly with 
it and hadnt made a mistake. The adjudicator thought that the only solution was for 
Nationwide to send  the money to Mr Ss US account  and as we were  not the regulator of 
banks and building societies then we couldnt  order it to change its policy  on this.
Mr S says he isnt disputing that Nationwide is following its procedures and policies but says 
they are inflexible and restrictive and its not providing him with any customer  service. He 
says there  would be cost involved in having  the money sent to him in this way.
The adjudicator asked Nationwide to reconsider its position but it says it made a decision not 
to send a cheque for security reasons.
Mr S has asked  that his complaint be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for similar reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed 
by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly he feels about the situation.
There is no real dispute  here that Nationwide has applied its policy and procedures for 
dealing with this type of situation. The issue is that Mr S says that position is unfair and 
doesnt recognise his own circumstances. But as the adjudicator has explained we are not 
the regulator of banks  and building societies and so I cant  fairly interfere in how a business 
exercises its commercial judgement when it makes this type of decision.  Im satisfied that Mr 
S can have  his money returned to him and Nationwide isnt unreasonably preventing that.
I appreciate that as Mr S no longer lives in the UK then he cant  open  a Nationwide account  
and may have difficulty opening  an account with a different business. And I also appreciate 
that by sending the money to his US account then there may be a charge. But for the 
reasons Ive explained I think its up to Nationwide to make  a security decision by not 
sending a cheque.
Ref: DRN19021882Overall Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly or made a mistake here and has 
offered what I think is a reasonable solution  to the problem. I accept Mr S is unlikely to agree 
but I think that brings an end to our involvement in trying to sort out this complaint informally.  
It is of course open to Mr S to consider alternative options in securing the return  of his 
money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1902188