K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
January 2004.  Ms I says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Is case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Ms I didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this 
because she has ticked the credit card application form to say that yes, she wants  
the PPI cover, when she could have left the option unticked.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Ms I so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms I got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Ms I about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms I.
Ive thought about everything Ms I has said - including  what  she has said about RBS not 
telling her she could  buy other PPI policies. But there was no requirement on RBS to do this, 
so this point doesnt change my decision.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms I because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms I about that. Because RBS didnt  tell Ms I, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms I.
Ref: DRN18910712But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Ms I any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1891071