K821x#15complaint
Mr Z has complained Santander  UK plc wouldnt process a chargeback for money  he spent 
on share trading  when  he didnt get the service he was promised.
background
In 2018 Mr Z decided to start investing   after seeing advertisements  by companies offering  
him investment options. He understood he could invest set amounts of money  which the 
company would trade on his behalf. Within  a short period of time Mr Z invested more  than 
£73,000 after making multiple card payments from his sole and joint accounts  with 
Santander. Mr Z was led to believe a range of things  which would help him increase his 
investment but things  very quickly went wrong.  Within a short period he realised  his 
investments had been lost. He also believed he was being harassed by the two trading 
platforms hed chosen.
Mr Zs wife, Mrs Z, immediately raised a complaint  with Santander  that these transactions  
were unauthorised and the two companies  were involved in a scam.
Mr Z tried to get his deposits back from the companies involved and some repayments were  
received. He complained to Santander that hed not got what hed expected  and asked them 
to help him out.
Santander refused  to carry out chargebacks on Mr Zs behalf.  They  argued  that the refunds 
showed Mr Z was getting a service so didnt feel any chargebacks would be successful.
Mr Z brought  his complaint to the ombudsman service. He was unhappy at how hed been  
treated by Santander.  He supported his complaint by copies of his correspondence with the 
trading platforms.
An investigator felt that Santander should have completed a chargeback. She felt there was 
enough supporting evidence  including the increasing awareness of these companies 
unregulated status   to suggest these  could have been successful. She asked Santander to 
repay all the outstanding money Mr Z had paid,  along with 8% simple interest a year.
Mr Z accepted this outcome. Santander  never formally responded with their view.
Mr Zs complaint has been  referred to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached  the decision I have.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to all the detail Mr Z 
raised in his submissions. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think is the key issue  here and thats  the chargeback aspect. 
Mr Z has provided  us with detailed submissions  about what happened and why he was 
drawn into investing. Im also aware  of the detail contained in our investigators view of 
Ref: DRN1274231231 July 2020.  This covers  a lot of what happened  which Im not intending  to repeat.
As stated above there is only really one main  aspect to the dispute. However I note that 
Mrs Z also raised a complaint with Santander.
So I believe  its worth  confirming all the evidence shows Mr Z consented to all the initial 
transactions and these  were properly authenticated. Hes admitted he didnt mention these 
transactions to his wife who understandably was extremely upset. She believed Santander 
could have notified her of the large value of transactions being made. As explained by our 
investigator Santander did question certain  transactions and Mr Z did confirm hed made 
those. So I dont think they did anything here which requires  further  review.
chargeback
The chargeback rules are managed by the relevant international  card schemes. Theyre  not 
a guarantee of a refund.  But these rules can offer customers whove bought something 
which turns  out to be not what they expected  a simple and effective way of being 
reimbursed. As long as they made the purchase using their debit or credit  card,  they can ask 
their card issuer to assist.  There are timelines  and rules  governing what  a card issuer  can 
and cannot do depending on the response  provided  by the merchant.
In this case Santander decided not to submit a claim based on Mr Zs submission to them.  
I appreciate Santander  firmly believe the service  Mr Z was buying was depositing  money 
onto an account   rather than the services that may flow from trading that money  for shares. 
Therefore I appreciate  why they believe any claim would have been unsuccessful. But at a 
minimum this service  expects a financial institution to carry out an initial  chargeback claim 
unless there  is incontrovertible  evidence this would never have had any chance of success.
I dont believe this is the case here.
In fact Im aware of similar  claims against  similar companies which  did prove  to be 
successful. I can also see the trading platforms chose  to refund some money to Mr Z. 
Reviewing that I believe they did this in an attempt to stave  off his complaint with Santander.
Im also aware, like our investigator, that binary  options trading companies were under 
increasing regulatory scrutiny at this time.  This has resulted in a number of them  being 
identified as scams. I think its most likely  Santander  would  have been  aware  of this and 
should have done more  to assist Mr Z.
Its not enough to say Santander should  have  completed the chargeback. I also need to 
consider whether these claims would have been successful. I appreciate this is a judgement 
call and I cannot be definite. But based on my knowledge of these trading options  
companies, and on balance, I believe these chargeback claims could  have been  successful.  
In that case its fair and reasonable  Santander  make good the money  Mr Z lost.
Mr Z has stated in his submission to us  and I can see this from his account statements  
that he received  back a total of £37,793.38 from the two companies involved on 9 and 12 
February 2018. Santander  will need to refund the remaining £35,706.62. They  will also need  
to add 8% simple interest  a year. I think the appropriate starting  date for that is 12 February  
2018 based on when refunds were received from the trading companies.
Ref: DRN12742313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Santander UK plc to:
Repay £35,706.62 to Mr Z; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to this figure from 12 February  2018  to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1274231