K821x#15complaint
Miss R complained about the amount Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)
offered in order to complete outstanding repairs following a buildings  insurance claim.
background
Miss R made a claim  for damage  caused  to her home by an earthquake. Repairs  started in
October 2011. According to LVs records Miss R called it in December  2011  to complain 
about the repairs; it sent Miss R a letter in January 2012 to arrange an appointment to 
discuss the issues as it couldnt contact her by phone; and as no response  was received the 
complaint was closed.  Miss R says she never  received the letter.
Throughout the early  part of 2012 Miss R was in email correspondence with the contractor 
and the loss adjuster about  various outstanding repairs. In early 2013  she signed two 
customer satisfaction forms, which confirmed  that the quality of the finished work was very 
good. A few days  later the contractor emailed Miss R to ask if she was satisfied with the 
works completed. Miss R replied by listing various work that remained outstanding.
In mid-2014 Miss R contacted the contractor again  as she hadnt heard anything further. The 
contractor visited the property shortly after. According to LV, he denied liability  for many of 
the issues Miss R had raised,  but he agreed to carry out some  minor repairs. Nothing  further  
happened though because LV says Miss R didnt return the contractors calls. A month  later 
Miss R provided LVs loss adjuster with a list of the repairs that remained outstanding.
The work remained incomplete so Miss R complained directly to LV in early  2017. She 
provided a list of the work that remained incomplete. LVs loss adjuster re-visited the 
property. Overall, he said that due to the passage of time it was impossible to determine 
whether much of what remained  outstanding was due to the original claim and repair  or had 
occurred in the intervening period due to general deterioration. He felt some of the work 
needed was a consequence of the claim and repair work but other work wasnt. He 
suggested to LV that it pay Miss R £1,000  to settle  the complaint. She could then use the 
money to pay for a decorator  to finish  the outstanding repairs  on the claim.
Miss R was unhappy with that. She pointed  out that it didnt include things  like the mid-size  
bedroom (where repairs had never  started)  and that certain repairs  hadnt been done in line 
with the original specification of works. LV felt that as it had made previous attempts to 
resolve the matter  it wasnt  now required to repair  all of the defects Miss R raised.  It felt it 
was only liable for the items that were noted in 2014 and maintained  that the £1,000  offered  
was a fair resolution  to the complaint.
After Miss R brought her complaint to us LV offered £626.84 (on top of the £1,000)  for the 
electricity used whilst drying equipment was installed in the house following  the claim.
Miss R provided us with a quote  for the outstanding repairs totalling £8,233 plus VAT.  She 
also provided two reports  on the damage. One report outlined various issues  with the 
plaster, including where  unsuccessful  attempts had been made to join sections on the 
ceiling. The other one highlighted the outstanding  repairs, including  in respect of plinths in 
the kitchen and pipes that had discoloured due to being painted. The second  report 
concluded that the painting and decorating fell below the expected standard.
Ref: DRN17478122LV felt the reports  identified the same  areas  that needed attention  as its loss adjuster. But it 
remained concerned  that due to the amount of time that had passed it couldnt know for sure 
whether the areas had developed through natural deterioration or as a result of poor repairs.  
It wasnt minded to increase its offer.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why I thought  the complaint should  be upheld. 
The relevant  parts of my decision  are outlined below.
signed satisfaction forms
I didnt find these  helpful. Although they showed that Miss R was happy with the work  
carried out they didnt detail what work was actually done or what  work she was signing 
for. So I wasnt persuaded that they showed the contractors  did any rectification work or 
that Miss R was happy with any rectification work.
delays in notification  of the issues
LV referred to it being  unreasonable and/or unrealistic for Miss R to come back so long 
after the repairs to say shes unhappy with the work. I didnt think LVs inference of a six 
year delay  in Miss R reporting  the problems was fair. It seemed Miss R was in contact  
with LV or its representatives about the outstanding repairs until 2014. She didnt then 
chase matters again until early 2017,  but that was because there were family issues she 
had to deal with.
LV referred to a history of Miss R being difficult to contact and to her not responding to 
messages. Miss R completely denied this and said all emails  were replied to and all 
phone calls were returned.
LVs £1,000 offer
LV needed to ensure  that any repairs were lasting and effective. That meant it was liable 
for the damage  caused by the earthquake, and for putting  right any repair  done by its 
repairer that wasnt lasting or effective.
There wasnt any apparent dispute  over what the outstanding repairs were  the list 
provided by Miss R and the reports provided by LVs loss adjuster and by Miss Rs 
contractor detailed  pretty much  the same  work.  The dispute was over how much  of that 
work LV was liable for.
Due to the length of time that had passed,  there was some difficulty in determining what 
damage caused by the earthquake hadnt been repaired at all; what damage  caused by 
the earthquake had been repaired but wasnt lasting or effective; and what damage had 
nothing to do with either the earthquake or the repairs. But as I decided  complaints on a 
balance of probabilities basis, I didnt need to be 100% sure of what had happened.
I felt the outcome of the complaint  turned on the thoughts of the loss adjuster and the 
contractor who provided the reports for Miss R. I found the contractors thoughts  more  
persuasive than the loss adjusters.
Ref: DRN17478123The main points  made by the loss adjuster were:
othe repairs were signed off in 2012
othe contractor visited  the property in 2014  and refuted  the issues Miss R had 
raised, although they tried to arrange to go back and rectify  some items but 
Miss R didnt return their calls
osome  work (which  I believed  related to the mid-size bedroom) couldnt be finished  
at the time because  Miss R needed  to have the roof repaired first
osome  areas could be considered a consequence  to the claim/repair works, but 
others couldnt
oit was unrealistic for Miss R to come back so long after the repairs to say shes  
unhappy with the work.
I acknowledge the difficulty the loss adjuster faced when being asked to decide what  
work related  to the original claim and repair. But, overall, I felt the essence of his report 
was that he couldnt  actually decide what repairs LV was liable for.
I didnt find some of the things  the loss adjuster said persuasive.  For example, he said a 
section of ceiling paper  in the lounge wasnt matched  very well but trying  to go back to 
the contractor now would be impossible  that may have  been the case,  but I didnt think 
it had any bearing on LVs obligation  to rectify  a poor repair. He also said any 
rectification work might cause problems with decorations  that are currently ok  that also 
may have been the case, but I didnt think it affected what  LV was liable for.
There also didnt appear to be any basis for the loss adjusters opinion  that £1,000  
should cover the repairs he thinks LV should  be liable for. It looked  to me like a best  
guess rather than being properly costed. I also couldnt see that any allowance had 
been made for the repairs that never  started  in the mid-size  bedroom.
The reports provided by Miss R on the other  hand went into more detail about what the 
problems were  and why they occurred. And, whilst it was a sweeping statement, the 
writer concluded that all of the work referred  to was caused by substandard repairs  
(workmanship). The estimated repair costs also seemed to be based on plausible 
costings.
With all the above  in mind, I concluded  that LVs offer was unfair.  I thought it had been 
sufficiently shown that the cost of completing the outstanding repairs  was more in line with 
the quote Miss R had provided.
sundry costs
I understood Miss R was happy  with LVs offer of £626.84 for the electricity used by 
dehumidifiers and blowers. I nevertheless confirmed  my opinion  that the offer was fair 
based what Id seen in respect of the estimated  electricity used.
The original contractor  had allowed  £300  for the flooring and Miss R had consistently 
said shed not been paid for this. I said that unless LV could  show that it had been paid, I 
would require it to pay this now.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss R accepted my provisional decision. I didnt  receive anything  further from LV.
Ref: DRN17478124my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider,  my final decision remains as outlined  in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Miss R:
-£8,233 for the outstanding repairs (with  the VAT to be paid when Miss R provides 
invoices for the work completed)
-£626.84 for the electricity
-£300 for the flooring.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1747812