K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
January 2000.  The policy was cancelled  in August 2002. 
Mr E says The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Co-op has provided a copy  of Mr Es credit card application form from 2000. Mr E had to 
actively tick to select  PPI. So I think Co-op  made it clear  that Mr E didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this. 
Co-op says that it most likely recommended  the PPI to Mr E. So it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
I appreciate that Mr E has told us he a good  level of sick pay from his employer if he was 
unable to work. At the time he had been  with his employer for around 10 years  as a branch 
manager. He says he would have received three months full pay if he was unable to work  
because of an accident or sickness. He also says he would have received statutory 
redundancy pay.  
The PPI would have  covered more  than Mr Es minimum card repayments if he was off work 
because of an accident or sickness  or if he lost his job. And it would have paid out over and 
above any sick pay Mr E received and for a lot longer. Mr E has also confirmed he didnt 
have any savings or other insurance  policies that would have helped him to meet  his 
repayments.
All things  considered, I think the policy could have  been useful to him.
I appreciate that Mr E says his wife could have helped if needed. But her circumstances 
could have changed and she might not have been able to help when needed. Insurance is 
there to protect against the unforeseen. And having  the insurance  provided the security that 
Mr E could have his card repayments met without having to rely on Mrs Es income.  And 
they could use her income for other essentials  at what would be a difficult time if Mr E was 
out of work for a lengthy period.
Ref: DRN18379372Its possible the information Co-op gave  Mr E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
All things  considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the 
PPI policy  and Mr Es circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Which means Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Co-op will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because  in 2017,  following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Co-op said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr E paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr E for the time he was out of pocket.
Mr E says he wouldnt ever have agreed to a commission  of more than 10% as being fair  
so says he should get more back because he wasnt told that Co-op would  receive any 
commission. But Co-op has done  what the rules  it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Es particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Co-op should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Co-op to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Co-op has to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Co-op should  also pay back to Mr E any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Co-op should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr E the difference  between 
what Mr E owes and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Co-op should also pay Mr E 8%* simple interest 
if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN18379373my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1837937