K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs A complain  about the actions of Bank of Scotland  trading as Halifax appointing 
Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers  to their buy to let property. Mr H and Mrs A say that 
they had reached  an arrangement with Halifax and a hold would be placed  on both accounts 
but Halifax went ahead with the appointment of the LPA receiver.  Mr H and Mrs A would like 
Halifax to pay compensation and take back the account  from the receiver.
background
Mr H and Mrs A had a buy to let mortgage and a residential mortgage with Halifax.  They  
were in arrears on both mortgages.  On 11 August 2018, Mr H and Mrs A were  in arrears of 
£797.75 on the buy to let and £1,538.40  on the residential mortgage. Halifax  phoned  about  
this and Mr H explained that the buy to let property hadnt had tenants  for two months but 
the property was now tenanted  and Mr H was off sick because of a shoulder injury but now 
back in full-time work. Mr H and Halifax  were  in contact from then on a monthly  basis  but the 
problems with the tenants not paying  and Mr Hs ability  to work continued. 
On 21 December 2018, Mr H rang to ask for a hold on the accounts and Halifax  agreed  to 
hold the accounts for 30 days to stop any contact being made. Mr H contacted Halifax in 
January 2019  and asked  to put his mortgage on hold for two months and he offered to pay 
£35 extra monthly. Mr H says the business agreed  but then passed the account to solicitors 
to appoint LPA receivers. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as felt that Halifax 
hadnt agreed that it wouldnt  appoint  the receivers and, given the arrears  on the account 
that it was reasonable for it to do so. Mr H and Mrs A disagreed  saying in summary that 
Halifax had agreed  to put a hold on the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Mrs As accounts were in arrears  in the summer of 2018  and the arrears  got worse  
over the next few months.  They had a buy to let which  was unoccupied, and they then got 
tenants but the tenants werent  paying the rent. Mr H also had difficulties with his shoulder 
which affected his ability to work and Mrs A was unemployed. 
Mr H had obvious difficulties collecting the rent on the buy to let property.  I see in his 
conversations with Halifax that he refers to bringing  a court case  against the tenants or that 
the insurers might do so. I note that in August 2018 the arrears  on this account were 
£797.75. The arrears  on 21 January  2019 were £1,344.90 which  is more than four months. 
At that stage Halifax decided to instruct its solicitors to appoint  an LPA receiver.  
On 24 January according to the banks  contact notes Mr H called  with the bank.  I note that in 
the call Mr H offered to make an arrangement on both accounts from February but the bank 
said that it couldnt enter a formal arrangement as Mr H hadnt supplied an income  and 
expenditure statement. That meant  that Halifax couldnt assess  the affordability of the offer. 
It would then seem that later the Halifax adviser noted that it had instructed solicitors to 
appoint an LPA adviser and so arranged to send a letter saying so to Mr H and Mrs A. 
Ref: DRN19713342Mr H and Mrs A complained about this. Halifax says that its adviser who called Mr H on 
24 January should  not have spoken to Mr H about the buy to let mortgage as this account 
had been passed on 21 January to the solicitors for the LPA mortgage. Because of this 
failure which may have  caused confusion with Mr H and Mrs A about Halifaxs  intentions, 
Halifax paid Mr H and Mrs A £200. 
Mr H and Mrs A believe that Halifax misled them by suggesting that they were putting  a hold 
on any action and then went ahead and appointed LPA receivers.  Ive noted  that on 
occasions that Halifax agreed with Mr H that it would put a hold on making contact  with him 
to allow  Mr H and Mrs A some breathing space so that the bank wouldnt be continually  
contacting them. But I have seen no document that indicates that Halifax  agreed not to 
appoint receivers. As the account was four months  in arrears and as Mr H and Mrs A clearly 
had difficulty collecting the rent I dont consider it unreasonable that Halifax  decided  to 
appoint the LPA receivers. So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1971334