K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Canada Square  Operations Limited will not refund any 
commission it received from his credit card payment protection  insurance (PPI) premiums  for 
the policy he took out in 2002.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Ss complaint about commission. Thats because 
weve already considered  Mr Ss complaint about  this mis-sale of the PPI. 
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr S, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Canada Square  has given me information  that shows Mr Ss credit card was taken out in 
September 2002 and ended in March 2008. Mr S received statements on this account after 
March 2008, however,  based on the evidence Ive seen I think Mr Ss credit  facility 
terminated in March 2008  which means Mr S wouldnt  have been able to use his credit 
card to make any purchases after March  2008, and so his credit agreement had ended. 
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
Mr S says that he has received an offer in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission on 
another credit card where the account was closed on the same  day. But this decision only 
considers the FCAs rules  on unfair  relationship provisions in relation to Mr Ss credit  card 
account ending  8975. So I cant comment on why Canada Square paid Mr S some money 
back on his other credit  card and I havent looked into the circumstances of the other 
complaint - as this is not relevant to my decision. 
I dont think Canada Square needs  to refund  any of the commission  Mr S paid for the PPI he 
had with his credit card account.
Ref: DRN18321452my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832145