K820x#14Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc wont  fully refund transactions made 
from his accounts  totalling  just over £1,500, which  he says he didnt make or authorise. 
Background
Mr G had a current and savings accounts  with NatWest.
NatWest has explained  that when in a branch a customer can use any debit  card linked to 
them to access funds  in any of their accounts. This then allows the teller  to view all accounts  
held by a customer  and withdraw funds  from any account they hold with the bank. The 
transaction is then confirmed using a chip and PIN terminal  where  the customer would  press  
enter to confirm they authorise the transaction.
On 4 July 2018,  at around 2.10pm, £1,350 was withdrawn from Mr Gs savings account  over 
the counter at his local branch. NatWest say Mr Gs debit card for his current account was 
used to authorise the transaction.  And the PIN for the card was entered  correctly  into the 
terminal.
Following this transaction five other  transactions  were  made  from Mr Gs current account  
between 3.12pm and 7.08pm. I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties 
are of aware  of which transactions  are in dispute.  
In November 2018, Mr G called NatWest to say he didnt  make the disputed transactions. He 
says at the time of the transactions he was at home with his wife expecting  a visit from their 
son. Mr G says the spending pattern  of the disputed transactions  dont fit his usual  routine. 
And on 4 July 2018, his card was in his wallet in his trouser pocket. Since  4 July 2018, Mr G 
says he keeps his bank card in an aluminium box at his home. 
Mr G said he hasnt shared his PIN with anyone, hasnt written it down anywhere  and hes 
kept the same PIN which was set by the bank  since  opening his accounts. Mr G says hasnt 
had any visitors to his home, so he cant explain how someone was able to take his card, 
become aware  of his PIN, use the card and then replace it without his knowledge. Mr G says 
the most  likely explanation is that his card was cloned. Mr G says he realised what  had 
happened the day after the disputed  transactions and reported it to the bank.
NatWest declined Mr Gs fraud claim.  It concluded the disputed spending was made up of 
transactions Mr G had either made  himself  or had authorised  because:
Mr Gs genuine card and PIN was used for all the disputed  transactions. And there  
isnt a plausible explanation for how someone  else could have known  Mr Gs PIN  it 
was issued in 2012. And Mr G told NatWest he hadnt made a written record  of it 
anywhere. 
Mr Gs current  account debit card was used as verification to make the £1,350  
withdrawal from his savings account  over the counter in branch
Mr G cant  explain  how a third party could take and replace  his bank card without his 
knowledge
on 3 July 2018, Mr G made  a transfer of £2,000 from his savings account to his 
current account. And he told NatWest no one else had seen him make this 
transaction
Mr G accessed his accounts online, but didnt raise the dispute  until November 2018
Ref: DRN12982382An investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint  but didnt uphold it. She asked Mr G some  
additional questions  about the transactions. Mr G initially  told the investigator that he couldnt 
have made  the transactions as he was travelling home from a holiday in Cornwall. He later 
told the investigator that he was at home waiting for his son to visit him. The investigator 
noted that Mr G had told NatWest he had attended  some medical appointments during the 
morning of 4 July 2018, had a builder visit his home to take some measurements.  And then 
met some friends for lunch.
Having looked  at the sequence of events, and Mr Gs online activity, she said it was more 
likely than not Mr G authorised the disputed transactions which  were made on 4 July 2018.  
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
One of the difficulties with this case is that Mr G had provided several different explanations 
about where he was and what  he was doing  on 4 July 2018. From whats  been  said and 
provided by both sides so far, theres not much common ground about exactly what 
happened or how it might have happened.  So, I will have to reach my findings on balance, 
taking a view on what I think is more likely than not to have happened  based on the 
evidence currently available to me. 
NatWest is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions if Mr G did not make  
or authorise  them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr G says he didnt make  the point  of sale transactions 
and cash withdrawal. And hes seeking a refund. So, my primary concern is to come to a 
view about whether or not I think Mr G authorised the payments. 
Im satisfied from looking at NatWests technical  evidence that Mr Gs genuine card and PIN 
were used to make  the disputed transactions on 4 July 2018. So, Whilst I appreciate  Mr G 
thinks his card was cloned, this isnt the case.
From looking  at the evidence, I dont  think  its unreasonable for NatWest  to conclude  that 
Mr G authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Mr G says he hasnt disclosed his PIN to anyone one else.  And hasnt recorded it 
anywhere. So, theres no convincing explanation for how an unknown third party  
would know Mr Gs PIN
Mr G says he kept his bank card in his possession at all times.  On 4 July 2018, he 
says it was in his wallet in his trouser pocket  so theres no explanation for how 
someone else could  use his bank card to make the disputed  transactions
Mr G hasnt offered any explanation about  how someone else wouldve been able to 
remove his card and then replace it without his knowledge
Mr G hasnt disputed checking his account via NatWests  online banking before and 
after the disputed  transactions. 
Mr G didnt report the disputed transactions until four months  after the last disputed 
transaction, yet I can see from Mr Gs account  activity that Mr G carried  out balance 
Ref: DRN12982383enquires before and after the disputed transactions on 7 and 10 July 2018. So, I find 
it unusual that he didnt report the issue to NatWest sooner than he did
Mr G has provided a several different explanations about where he was on 4 July 
2018, initially he said he was travelling home  from Cornwall.  And then he said he was 
at home  with his wife. So, I think its possible  he has forgotten  he made the disputed 
transactions
the disputed  transactions  took place  within  a two- and half-mile  radius  of Mr Gs 
home. And at retailers previously visited by Mr G.
Mr Gs account balances  were  higher than the amounts  withdrawn, so its unclear 
why a fraudster  wouldnt  have  maximised the usage of the accounts
even though Mr G says he was elsewhere  at the time of the disputed transactions, I 
havent seen any plausible explanation  as to how an unknown third party  couldve 
obtained his card and PIN without Mr Gs authority
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Mr G authorised the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for NatWest  to refuse him a refund of 
the disputed transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1298238