K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say AXA Insurance  UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
The PPI policy was sold by a third party. But it has been agreed that AXA, as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. 
background
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  when they took out a mortgage in 2001.  They  paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
The PPI wouldve covered Mr P in the event that he wasnt able to work through accident,  
sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say they were told they had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage  and 
they were pressured  into buying the cover. AXA say it would have made it clear to 
Mr and Mrs P that they didnt have to buy a policy  and it would  have got their consent  
before adding the cover to their account.  Where theres a dispute about what  happened,  I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into 
account all the information thats available. 
Given how long ago the sale took place,  neither  party  has been able to give me any 
information to show me how this PPI policy was presented to Mr and Mrs P  and neither 
party has been  able to show how Mr and Mrs P agreed to buy the cover.  But this isnt 
surprising or unusual. Because of this, it does make it difficult  for me to know what happened 
during the sale.
AXA has given me a copy of a sample  application  form for the PPI that it says this was in 
use at the time the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs P. But the application form isnt dated, so I 
cant be certain this was in use, or similar  to the application Mr and Mrs P would have seen.
Ref: DRN16953412Mr and Mrs P say they were told they had to have cover to get the mortgage  and they were  
pressured into taking  it. There arent  any notes of the sale available, so I dont know  the 
exact conversations that took place.  But for me to be able to agree with what 
Mr and Mrs P have  said about the sale, I have to think it more likely  that someone at AXA 
deliberately told Mr and Mrs P they had to buy a policy  and although I agree this is 
possible, I dont  think its more likely. 
Mr and Mrs P havent given me much information  about why they felt pressured into taking 
the cover  other than the sales person was pushy.  There  would have been an expectation on 
the representative to notify  consumers of other products available and to encourage people  
to buy them,  so I think it likely that the representative was keen to sell the cover. But I 
havent seen anything else that makes  me think Mr and Mrs P were pressured.  And so I 
cant safely conclude AXA put Mr and Mrs P under unfair pressure. 
So based  on everything Ive read and been told, I think AXA gave  Mr and Mrs P a choice in 
buying PPI, and I think they subsequently agreed to take it. I cant  fairly say they were 
pressured into doing so.
From what  Ive seen, I think AXA recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. So it had to check  
the cover  was right for Mr P  as he was the person covered under the policy.  And based  on 
everything Ive seen, I think it was.
Mr P was eligible for the policy.  And I dont  think  hes have been affected  by any of the main 
things that might have  made it difficult for him to make a successful claim.
Mr P says he would  have got some sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. But the PPI 
policy would have paid out in addition to his sick pay  and for longer.  So I think  
Mr and Mrs P could  have benefit  from the policy if Mr P became ill.
I dont know how the cost of the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs P before they agreed to 
take the cover, so its possible it could have  been  presented in a better way. But I think 
Mr and Mrs P would have still bought  the cover even  if theyd have  been  aware  of the cost. I 
say this because  the PPI was designed  to cover  the repayments of what I presume is 
Mr and Mrs Ps most valuable asset,  their home. And given the serious consequences of 
them defaulting on a debt secured against  their home,  I think theyd have benefit from the 
peace of mind and security the policy provided.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the PPI was unaffordable  to Mr and Mrs P  or that 
they had a particular need to keep costs down.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs P would  have 
wanted to keep monthly costs to a minimum, but this is different to the monthly  cost being 
unaffordable.
AXA also had to give Mr and Mrs P enough information about the cover  so they could decide 
for themselves if they wanted  to buy it. Its possible the information AXA gave Mr and Mrs P 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But given what Ive said about the policy  being  
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  would have put them  off buying the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P have  told me  including what  theyve said about 
Mrs P going  back to work if Mr P couldnt work.  But this point doesnt change  my conclusion. 
I say this because  it might  have been  difficult for Mrs P to get work as and when she needed 
it. And this PPI policy would provide extra security for them in such  a time. So I still think  the 
cover provided a useful  benefit.
Ref: DRN16953413my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695341