K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs S complain  that North  Yorkshire Mortgages Limited mis-sold their interest only 
mortgage as it didnt ask how they intended to repay the capital at the end of the term. And 
they say that NYM is acting unreasonably by seeking to repossess the property when  
theyve asked it to give them  more time.  
background
Mr D and Mrs S took out a 10 year interest  only mortgage for £200,000 in July 2007. Their 
mortgage account was transferred to NYM in September 2007.
The mortgage term expired in July 2017. And in June 2018 NYM took court  action and 
obtained a possession order. 
Mr D and Mrs S complained to NYM. They said that NYM hadnt contacted them when  it 
took over the mortgage to check it was suitable  for them.  And they did not want the 
repossession order  to be enforced. But NYM didnt uphold their complaint, and so they 
brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr D and Mrs Ss complaint  should be upheld.  He 
said, in summary:
He didnt think that NYM had a responsibility to contact Mr D and Mrs S when  the 
mortgage was transferred to it to see if the mortgage was still suitable.  This was 
because the mortgage  continued to operate on the same  conditions they had agreed 
to on completion;
NYM had written  to them in July 2014 to ask about their repayment  method, and to 
ask them  to get in touch  if they did not have  a repayment plan. This was so NYM 
could offer support and help to put a plan in place to repay the mortgage at the end 
of the term. But he couldnt see that Mr D and Mrs S had got in touch with NYM until 
2017. So he didnt  think NYM  had done anything wrong;
He appreciated  Mr D and Mrs S were unhappy because NYM had issued court 
proceedings and wouldnt put court action on hold.  But having looked  at the contact 
history notes he could see that Mr D and Mrs S had put forward a number of 
arrangements to repay  the capital. And he felt that NYM had acted reasonably by 
allowing Mr D and Mrs S time to explore these arrangements;
Mr D and Mrs S had said that NYM had refused to discuss  a term extension with 
them. But having looked  at the contact history notes he couldnt  see that any 
discussion about a term extension  had taken place.  So he didnt think NYM had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. And he said he would only expect  a term extension to 
be granted if there was a concrete plan to get the mortgage repaid  within  a clear  and 
defined timescale.
Mr D and Mrs S dont  agree with our investigators view and have asked for their complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12282842Mr D and Mrs S have  raised a number  of issues. Ive carefully considered everything they 
have to say but have  concentrated my decision on those issues  that I find to be central to 
their complaint.
I sympathise with Mr D and Mrs S, and I note that Mrs S has been suffering from ill-health. 
But, having  considered all the available  evidence Ive come to the same conclusions  as our 
investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr D and Mrs S so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr D and Mrs S have  said that NYM should  have contacted them when it took over the 
mortgage in 2007, to check that it was suitable for them and that they had a repayment  
vehicle in place.  But I agree with our investigator  that there was no obligation on NYM to do 
this. As our investigator has explained,  the mortgage continued to operate  on the same  
terms Mr D and Mrs S had agreed  at completion.
I appreciate that Mr D and Mrs S say that their original mortgage lender has been in the 
press for mis-selling. But, although  Ive considered  what they have  to say, this doesnt 
change my decision. And, in any event, I note that the mortgage  was recommended to them  
by a mortgage broker rather than the original mortgage lender.
I can see from the contact notes that NYM did attempt  to contact Mr D and Mrs S by letter  
and phone from 2013 onwards. The purpose  of this contact was to establish whether Mr D 
and Mrs S had a repayment method  in mind, and to help establish a plan for repayment if 
they did not. But Im persuaded  from the evidence Ive seen that NYM didnt hear back  from 
Mr D and Mrs S until January 2017. And at that time the contact notes show  that Mr D said 
that everything was in hand. It was only in June 2017, shortly  before the end of the mortgage  
term, that Mr D confirmed  that he didnt have a repayment plan.
Between June  2017 and June 2018  I can see that NYM exercised forbearance while Mr D 
and Mrs S explored a number of plans to raise  the money. It was only when it was unable to 
obtain evidence  that things were  progressing that it issued court  proceedings. 
Ultimately, when Mr D and Mrs S took out the interest  only mortgage they agreed to repay  
the capital to the lender  at the end of the term. And so NYM is entitled for these funds to be 
repaid to it now the mortgage term has ended.
Mr D and Mrs S are also unhappy that NYM failed to offer them a term extension. But 
although I note that correspondence  did refer to NYM potentially being  prepared to extend  
the mortgage term, Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mr D and Mrs S ever contacted 
them to make an application to do this.
If Mr D and Mrs S do now wish to make  an application to extend the term I suggest that they 
contact NYM to do so. However, as our investigator  explained,  I would  only expect NYM to 
grant a term extension if Mr D and Mrs S have  a clear plan to repay  the mortgage within a 
defined timeframe. 
Ref: DRN12282843my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1228284