K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has rejected her claim under her home 
insurance policy for water damage to her carpets, following a burst pipe, as its says the 
damage is due to wear  and tear.
background
Mrs W made a claim on her property insurance following a burst  pipe. AXA instructed a 
surveyor to go and inspect the damage to the property. 
Based on the report produced by the surveyor, AXA agreed that the damage  caused to the 
ceilings and walls in various rooms and the damage  to the floor in the kitchen would be 
covered under the policy. However, it said there  was no evidence  of water damage  to the 
carpets in the property  so wouldnt pay for them to be replaced. It said the condition of the 
carpets was due to poor fitting and wear and tear. It also said it could find no moisture in the 
carpets or underlay. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this as she said the carpets had been damaged by the water.
She said since the pipe burst the carpets  had developed a rippled appearance, which made  
it was difficult for her to get around  on them.  She explained this was particularly difficult as 
she already struggles with mobility due to a disability. She made  a complaint to AXA.
AXA didnt uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. It said it was satisfied with the information in the 
surveyors report. It maintained that the carpets were not covered under the policy, as the 
damage was due to wear  and tear which is a policy exclusion. Mrs W wasnt  happy with this 
response, as she said the carpets  had not been rippled before the pipe burst.  She said the 
reason the carpets were  dry was because the housing association responsible for the 
property had come to fix some of the damage initially, and had used a machine to dry them 
out. She also said she had kept her heating on for the three  weeks before the surveyor  
visited, to help the drying process. She made  a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence and upheld  the complaint. He thought  that AXA 
hadnt done enough to show that the wear and tear exclusion  in the policy  could be applied 
to the carpets.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator.  It said the report  provided  by Mrs W wasnt  by a 
qualified specialist. AXA still didnt agree that the damage to the carpets  was caused by 
water. AXA asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
Since the investigation concluded, Mrs W has paid for new carpets to be fitted.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has said that the damage  to the carpets is excluded from cover  under the policy,  as it 
was caused by wear  and tear. I can see that this is listed  in the general exclusions of the 
policy, so I accept that damage  due to wear and tear wouldnt be covered. However I need 
Ref: DRN11491502to be persuaded  that AXA were right to apply this exclusion. So I need to consider if the 
damage to the carpets was caused  by wear and tear, rather  than by water from the burst  
pipe.
AXA has said that its report shows that there  was no moisture  present in the carpets or 
underlays when  its surveyor attended  the property. It said that this is evidence that the water  
didnt damage  the carpets. I can understand why it may feel this is odd, as there  was a lot of 
water in the ceilings  and walls but none  in the carpets. However, Mrs W has explained  that 
the housing association responsible for the building visited the property straight  after the 
pipe burst and used  a machine to dry the carpets.  She also said that she had left the heating 
on for the three  weeks  before  AXAs  surveyor did their report.  I think this would explain why 
the carpets would have  been dry by the time the surveyor arrived. So I dont think AXA can 
rely on the fact there was no moisture in the carpets  at the time the surveyor  attended the 
property, to say they werent damaged by the water.
It is also relevant to consider the damage to the building that AXA has accepted was due to 
water damage. It has agreed to pay for repairs to the ceilings and walls of various rooms,  
including in the lounge and the hall, stairs  and landing  area.  These are areas Mrs W has 
claimed there was also water damage to the carpets. When  considering the amount of 
damage that has been caused to the ceilings and walls, it seems unlikely that the carpets  in 
those rooms would have avoided water damage altogether. It seems more likely that the 
water would have  made its way to the carpets as well, so I would have expected  there to be 
water damage to the carpets in those rooms. I therefore dont think it is fair for AXA to accept 
the water  damage  to the ceilings and walls  in a room, but not to accept this has also affected 
the carpets.
Regarding AXAs view that the damage is due to wear and tear, I have looked at the photos  
of the carpets  and I can see the rippling effect Mrs W has described. It seems plausible  to 
me that this could  be caused by water  damage. If the carpets had got wet, they would have 
been likely  to come away  from the underlay,  which may mean they wouldnt lie as flat as 
they had done. I therefore  think the damage  to the carpets is in line with what  Id expect  to 
see if they had got wet. I agree wear  and tear may be the cause of some of the marks on the 
carpets, however  I dont  think this is as likely to have caused  the rippling effect. Further to 
this, Mrs W has said the bumps in the carpets have caused her problems getting  around the 
house due to her disability.  She has also confirmed that she has now paid to have the 
carpets replaced, as she couldnt put up with that inconvenience any longer. As she has had 
the carpets for more than 10 years  without having them  replaced,  it seems unlikely that she 
would have put up with bumps in them for this time.  The fact she has used the money paid 
by AXA for the other repairs, which may appear more urgent, in order to fix the carpets 
suggests that the inconvenience of the bumps she describes  is accurate  and has occurred 
recently. This makes  it unlikely that poor fitting  caused the bumps, as they were fitted more  
than ten years ago. I therefore think it is more likely the damage to the carpets has been  
caused by water damage, rather than wear  and tear or being badly fitted.
For these reasons I dont  think  its fair for AXA to exclude the damage to the carpets from 
this claim,  as I dont  think it is due to wear and tear. I therefore  propose that AXA settle the
claim for the carpets. 
I have also considered the inconvenience that has been caused to Mrs W due to the delay to 
the claim being settled.  She has had to put up with the condition of the carpets, which  has 
made it more difficult for her to move around her house. She has also had to pay for the 
Ref: DRN11491503carpets to be replaced rather  than getting  the repairs  done to the walls and ceilings of her 
house, when she should have been able to do both.  I therefore also propose  AXA pay
Mrs W £100 compensation for the inconvenience  caused.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments.
AXA responded to say it didnt agree with the decision. It provided further photos of Mrs Ws 
carpets and said they showed staining  from wear  and tear, but not water damage. It also 
said that the carpets being joined and moving  over time caused the rippling effect visible  on 
the carpets on the landing. Further it said that despite the walls and ceilings around the 
stairs being damaged by the water, the carpet on the stairs  had no visible damage which  it 
said shows the water hadnt  reached  the carpets. 
AXA also said that the carpets in the lounge had not been affected by the water damage as 
the damage to the walls was not near the carpets.  Further, it said that any damage to the 
carpet in the lounge  diner may have been  due to a separate  leak from the washing machine 
and it is happy  to register a second  claim for this.
Finally it said it considered Mrs Ws decision  to replace the carpets before arranging the 
insured work strange  as painting is required as part of the work. It also said that as there 
was only rippling at the top of the landing and it believes this is due to wear and tear, it would 
question the impact this had on Mrs W getting  around the house.  
  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of AXAs response  to it.
AXA has provided additional photos  of Mrs Ws carpets and say that it shows  the damage in 
the bathroom is due to wear and tear rather than water damage.  Having reviewed the photos 
I am still not persuaded that the damage  is due to wear and tear. I dont  dispute  that there 
are stains  on the carpets, which I would  expect for carpets that are ten years old. However  
this doesnt mean that there  wasnt also water  damage. Due to the fact there  was moisture in 
the walls  of the bathroom, and that the pipe that burst was connected to the shower, I think  it 
is more likely that there was water  damage to the carpets in the bathroom. It is also 
important to bear in mind  that the carpets were  dried shortly after the leak. This would be 
likely to reduce water  staining.
The photos  AXA provided also clearly show the rippling  effect  Mrs W had previously 
described on the landing. I outlined the reasons I think this is more likely  to have been 
caused by the water  damage than wear  and tear in my provisional decision and the new 
photos havent persuaded me otherwise.  Further, from looking at the photos  it appears that 
the carpet was the same  throughout the house, but the rippling has only appeared in areas  
where there  could plausibly be water  damage. If the ripples were due to bad fitting  and 
joining, I would expect  it to have occurred in every  room that had the same  carpet.
AXA further says that it finds it strange that Mrs W chose to replace the carpets before 
arranging for the decoration work to be done.  It also says it would question her problems 
getting around as the rippling on the carpets  is only at the top of the stairs. As I said in my 
Ref: DRN11491504provisional decision it seems coincidental  that Mrs W would only replace the carpets  at this 
stage, if the rippling effect had been  there for some time. Further, I dont think  the fact the 
rippling largely appears on the landing mitigates the inconvenience it would cause Mrs W. 
Experiencing difficulty getting around your home  would be frustrating and limiting regardless 
of whether it is only in one area.  I therefore think it is more likely that the water damage has 
caused the rippling effect and Mrs W has had to replace them  before the claim is settled due 
to the mobility problems  it has caused her. 
AXA has also provided photos of the stairs  leading down from the landing.  It says there isnt 
any damage to the carpet on the stairs, even though there was plastering to repair the water  
damage to the ceilings  and walls  around  that area.  It says this shows  that the carpets  were  
not affected, even  in areas where  there  was damage to the walls.  I have considered this 
and as the carpet in this area is fitted tightly around  the shape  of the stairs, there is less 
exposed surface and therefore  less opportunity for the carpet to ripple. I therefore dont think  
it is relevant that the stair area hasnt developed a ripple effect.  The fact that there was 
enough damage to require  plastering  strengthens the case  that it would have been likely to 
affect the carpets as well. 
I have also considered AXAs response to my observation that as it had accepted  Mrs Ws 
claim for damage to walls and ceilings  in some rooms, it would follow  that it is likely there 
would also be water damage to the carpets  in those rooms. It says that the water damage 
was nowhere near the reported  damage  to the carpets. However I can see from the photos 
in the original report that there was damage  to the lower walls in the lounge,  near the skirting 
board, which  suggests the water did travel at least that far. Im therefore  not persuaded that 
the carpets in those  rooms were un-affected.
Finally, AXA has confirmed that although it thinks the damage to the dining room  carpets  
was caused by a leak from the washing machine,  it does  consider the damage  to the kitchen 
floor to have been  caused by the burst  pipe in the shower.  The damage to the kitchen 
appears to be some  of the most extensive, as water  has got under the tiles and these have 
needed to be replaced. This level of damage to a room on the ground floor,  suggests  the 
leak was extensive  which I think makes it more likely that the floors of other rooms would 
have been affected by the leak. 
I have put AXAs comments  about the washing machine leak to Mrs W and she says she 
has never been aware of a leak from her washing machine so hasnt had to make  a claim for 
it. If the damage to the dining room carpet had been  caused by a second  leak from the 
washing machine,  this would be an ongoing issue that would also need to be addressed and 
may have  caused  further damage  to the new carpets that have now been installed. As 
Mrs W hasnt  been aware  of a problem  with her washing machine,  and therefore  has taken 
no action to resolve it, I therefore  think it is unlikely that the water damage to the dining room  
carpet was caused  by a second  leak. I think its more likely that this was caused  by the burst  
pipe as part of the original  claim.
Therefore, after reviewing the information  provided  by AXA and reconsidering  all the 
evidence, I havent  seen a reason to depart from my original assessment. I therefore uphold  
Mrs Ws complaint  and require AXA to settle the claim for the carpets and pay Mrs W £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN11491505my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold the complaint.  I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle the claim for the carpets.
pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mrs W paid for the new carpets until the 
date settlement  is paid.*
pay Mrs W £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.  This should be paid within  
28 days of us telling them that Mrs W has accepted  my final decision. If AXA Insurance 
UK Plc pay later than this they must  also pay interest on that amount from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1149150