K821x#15complaint
Mrs H and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 6 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I was 
intending to uphold Mrs H and Mrs Ss complaint in part.
Mrs H and Mrs S responded  to my provisional  decision agreeing  with it and saying they had 
nothing further  to add.
Nationwide responded giving reasons why it didnt  agree with my provisional decision to 
uphold the complaint in part.
Nationwide disagree  with my view that it hasnt been able to show  that Mrs H agreed to the 
PPI policy  she was sold in 2004, knowing she had a choice.  In summary, Nationwide  has 
provided the following additional comments in relation to what I said about this in my 
provisional decision:
It says that the Transfer  of Equity  (ToE) application form Mrs H completed,  with Yes  
and No boxes to tick to show whether or not she wanted  to take PPI, would have made 
her aware that this policy was optional. And it says that in the letter Mrs H subsequently 
wrote to Nationwide she, herself,  acknowledges that she concluded with the 
representative she spoke to that MPPI was not essential, based on her circumstances at 
the time.  So it doesnt accept that she might  have been under the misapprehension that 
taking the policy  was a condition of obtaining  the ToE she was seeking.
It says that, taken in its entirety, it thinks the letter Mrs H wrote  to Nationwide  does  show 
her agreement  to taking out the MPPI cover.
It says that it thinks the only reason why Mrs H specifically asked whether the MPPI 
policy was compulsory and whether  she had to take it from Nationwide in her letter was 
because of some confusion about a figure  of £450 - being the monthly benefit payable  
under the policy.  Mrs H had wrongly  interpreted this to be an additional fee payable  by 
her in connection with this cover.
It acknowledges that the reply it gave to Mrs Hs letter  wasnt as good  as it could have 
been and didnt  directly answer the questions  she asked   only explaining  that the £450 
was the monthly benefit obtainable from the policy, not an additional fee for arranging  it. 
But it says in this reply  it invited Mrs H to come  back to it again if she had any further 
questions.
Taking account of the above  comments, Nationwide says its interpretation of Mrs Hs 
letter is different to that given  by me in my provisional decision. It thinks that it shows  she 
had agreed to continue with a form of PPI, but was under  the misapprehension  that she 
would have to pay an additional fee for doing this. So this is why she asked if the PPI 
was compulsory and whether it had to be taken out with Nationwide.
Ref: DRN10417582It says it has also considered what Mrs H would have done if Nationwide had directly  
answered the questions she asked in her letter. And it says that it doesnt think she 
would have acted  differently and cancelled her PPI cover  with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Nationwides comments on my provisional decision.  But these 
dont change my view that this complaint should  be upheld  in part for reasons that Ill now 
explain.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said about the ToE application making it clear that the 
policy was optional. And I accept that this might have alerted her to the fact that, unlike her 
existing Nationwide  PPI policy, this one was not a compulsory part of her mortgage. But I 
also need to take account of the fact that, at the time Mrs H filled in this form, she left this 
section completely blank.  And, as Nationwide has acknowledged, she asked for clarification 
about whether  the policy was compulsory and had to be purchased  from it in her subsequent 
letter, but didnt  receive a direct response to these questions.
 
So I dont  think what Nationwide has now said changes my view that it hasnt  been  able to 
show that it made it clear  enough to Mrs H that she had a choice  about  taking the policy. 
And as her existing policy was a compulsory part of her mortgage, I think that such  clarity 
would have been of particular importance  to her.
Ive also thought about what  Nationwide  has said about the letter  she wrote,  taken in its 
entirety, showing her agreement to the new policy. But I dont think  the letter does show this. 
In my opinion the letter  seems  to be seeking  clarification about a number of matters 
concerning the policy. These included whether a fee was payable by her for arranging it and 
whether it was compulsory or not. I can see nothing  in the letter  that I would take as clear 
confirmation that she was agreeing to take out the policy,  irrespective  of the answers  she 
might receive to these  questions. And Nationwides response to Mrs Hs letter doesnt 
confirm that shed actively agreed to take the policy either.
So I dont  think what Nationwide has said satisfies me than it can be shown  that Mrs H did 
agree to take out the policy. I say this because she didnt tick the PPI yes box on her ToE 
application; she didnt  confirm agreement to taking  the PPI in her subsequent letter to 
Nationwide, and theres no record of her confirming her agreement to the policy after she 
received Nationwides response to this letter.
Nationwide has also said that it doesnt think Mrs H would have cancelled her policy  even if 
Nationwide had directly  answered the questions she posed in her letter.  But as it says itself,  
the policy Mrs H was sold in 2004  was very different from the one she purchased jointly  with 
Mrs S in 1991. As such, this represented  the sale of a new PPI policy,  with different terms 
and conditions, a different  cost and for the sole benefit of Mrs H. So I dont think any 
speculations concerning cancellation of her previous policy are relevant here.
What I need to decide is whether its more  likely  than not that Mrs H actively agreed  to take 
out her new policy  knowing she could choose not to do so. And I dont think that anything 
Ref: DRN10417583which Nationwide has said in responding to my provisional decision does make me think  that 
it is. So I still think that Nationwide mis-sold  Mrs H the PPI policy which  she took out in 2004.
As Nationwide  hasnt provided  any additional comments  in relation to that part of my 
provisional decision which related to the PPI sale in 1991,  I see no reason to reconsider the 
conclusions I reached on this part of Mrs H and Mrs Ss complaint.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mrs H in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out the policy  
in 2004. So Nationwide should:
Pay Mrs H the amount she paid each month for the policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the policy, Nationwide can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Nationwide can also take off the refund of commission and profit share  above  50% which 
it has already paid to Mrs H.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Nationwide should  also pay back  to Mrs S her share  of any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on the policy  it sold to her and Mrs H in 
1991. 
Nationwide should pay back to Mrs S her share  of the extra Mrs H and Mrs S paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Nationwide  should also pay Mrs S simple  interest on each payment. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide  
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Nationwide Building Society  to pay compensation to Mrs H and to Mrs S in line with 
the instructions  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10417584copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs H and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1991, Mrs H and Mrs S took out a joint mortgage  with Nationwide. A monthly  premium  PPI 
policy was taken out with their mortgage.  The policy covered their loan repayments for up to 
twenty four months on a 50:50  basis if one of them was unable  to work because  of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
In 2004, Mrs H took over sole responsibility for the mortgage through  a Transfer  of Equity 
(ToE) and a new PPI policy covering her alone was sold to Mrs H. This policy protected 
Mrs Hs new loan repayments  if she was unable to work because  of an accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the complaint  should be upheld. Mrs H and Mrs S disagreed 
with the adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in my provisional decision on this case.
1991 PPI sale
Mrs H and Mrs S say that they dont think they were  given  a choice about taking out PPI with 
their mortgage. And I think that this would have  been the case.  I say this because  
Nationwide has told us that between October  1990 and November 1992 taking its PPI 
product was a compulsory  condition on all mortgages which were taken out where  the loan 
to value was over 95%. And Nationwide says that its records show that Mrs H and Mrs Ss 
mortgage exceeded this percentage. So it seems that the PPI would have been a 
compulsory condition of their mortgage.
Nationwide doesnt  still have a copy of the mortgage offer which was sent to 
Mrs H and Mrs S at the time. This is understandable  given how long ago this mortgage 
started. But Nationwide says that this document would have confirmed  that its PPI policy  
was included as a condition of the mortgage  being  offered. And from mortgage  offers  of this 
type this service has seen  in the past,  I think that this would have been the case.
I dont think that Nationwide did anything wrong by making its PPI product a condition of 
offering Mrs H and Mrs S a mortgage of the type they were seeking. But it did need  to make 
this condition clear  to them when it made its mortgage offer.  And from the information I 
currently have, I think it did make  this condition clear. It was then up to Mrs H and Mrs S to 
decide if they wanted to take the mortgage  on these terms or to look elsewhere for an 
alternative mortgage offer which didnt include taking PPI as a compulsory condition.
Ref: DRN10417585Nationwide says that this wasnt an advised sale. And from the available  information, 
together with what we know more generally about its sales practices  at around this time, I 
think this is most likely to have been  the case. This means that Nationwide didnt need to 
ensure that the PPI which was a condition of the mortgage was suitable  for 
Mrs H and Mrs S. But it did need  to provide them with enough information for them to decide 
if they wanted to take out a mortgage  with this policy attached  to it.
As I havent  seen copies  of all the documents Mrs H and Mrs S were  given  at the time, or 
what was said to them, I cant be sure that Nationwide did give them  enough information 
about the PPI policy  for them to make an informed  choice.  But from what  I know of their 
circumstances then,  I dont think better  information would have changed their minds about  
choosing a mortgage where this cover was compulsory. I say this because:
Mrs H and Mrs S appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.
Mrs H and Mrs S say that they didnt need  the cover because  they both had generous 
sick pay entitlements and could also have  relied on a family member to provide financial 
support in need. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any other means they 
might have  had available if one of them was unable to work.  It could have  paid out for 
considerably longer  than the sick pay would  have  lasted  and would have been more  
secure than relying on a relative to support them. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment, where ones home  is potentially at risk if the monthly payments cant be 
met. So I still think that the policy would have given Mrs H and Mrs S valuable  additional  
cover.
Ive no reason to think the monthly  cost of the PPI was unaffordable  for 
Mrs H and Mrs S.
So, on the basis of the information  currently available  to me, I dont think  Mrs H and Mrs S 
have lost out by anything  that Nationwide may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI 
policy.
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs H and Mrs S.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H and Mrs S 
because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H and Mrs S about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mrs H and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has to pay back the amount of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that Nationwide  has already  paid 
Mrs H her share of this amount. If it hasnt already  done so, Nationwide  now needs to 
pay Mrs S her share  of this amount.
Ref: DRN104175862004 PPI sale
Nationwide has provided a copy of the application form which  Mrs H completed to change 
her existing mortgage into one in her sole name  in 2004. By this time, PPI was not a 
condition of her mortgage  and she had a choice about whether or not to take PPI to cover 
the repayments on her loan. Theres  a section on this form headed Unemployment, 
Accident and Sickness Protection.  And Yes and No boxes  are provided next to the 
question Do you want  Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (MPPI)? . I can see that this 
section hasnt been completed  by Mrs H. Nationwide  says that, instead, Mrs H wrote it a 
letter expressing her wish to transfer  the existing cover to her sole name.
Nationwide have provided a copy of this letter. But I dont think  it does show  that Mrs H 
wanted to take out PPI. And at the end of the letter  she asks the following:
Just by way of background  can you also let me know:
i) Whether MPPI  is compulsory?
ii) Whether I have to take MPPI  out through Nationwide?...
So it seems  to me that Mrs H hadnt definitely  decided to take the PPI policy  when she wrote 
to Nationwide. And it doesnt  seem as if she was clear about whether or not this was a 
condition of the ToE she was seeking.
Ive also seen a copy of Nationwides reply to Mrs H letter.  This doesnt seem to me to give a 
clear answer to either  of the specific questions she asked  and it doesnt  confirm that Mrs H 
had chosen to take the PPI policy which had been  offered to her.
So having  carefully considered all the information  currently available  to me, I dont think  that 
Nationwide has shown  that Mrs H actively decided to take the PPI policy out. And even if 
she had done  so, I think it might well have been under the understandable misapprehension 
that taking it was a condition  of obtaining the ToE she was seeking - as it had been  when her 
mortgage was originally taken out.
It follows from what Ive said, that I currently think Nationwide mis-sold the PPI policy to 
Mrs H which  she took out in 2004.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mrs H in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out the policy  
in 2004. So Nationwide should:
Pay Mrs H the amount she paid each month for the policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the policy, Nationwide can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Nationwide can also take off the refund of commission and profit share  above  50% which 
it has already paid to Mrs H.
Ref: DRN10417587 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Nationwide should  also pay back  to Mrs S her share  of any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on the policy  it sold to her and Mrs H in 
1991. 
Nationwide should pay back to Mrs S her share  of the extra Mrs H and Mrs S paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Nationwide  should also pay Mrs S simple  interest on each payment. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide  
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I intend to direct  
Nationwide Building  Society to pay compensation to Mrs H and to Mrs S in line with the 
instructions above.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1041758