K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Gefion Insurance A/S caused a delay when it dealt  with his claim 
under his motorcycle insurance policy. 
background
Mr G bought a motorbike insurance  policy  through  a broker  in April 2017. In August of that 
year he told his broker he had been involved in an accident. 
Gefion, as the lead insurer  under Mr Gs policy, dealt  with his claim. Mr G complained that 
Gefion delayed instructing a salvage agent  to collect the motorbike. This led to his motorbike 
not being retrieved. It took Gefion six months to settle his claim as a total loss. 
Gefion apologised  to Mr G and it compensated him by waiving his excess  of £500.  He was 
not satisfied with that, and so he brought this complaint  to our Service. (He has made a 
separate complaint against the broker.)
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She agreed 
Gefion had caused delay. But she thought the £500  compensation was enough to put the 
matter right.  
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He doesnt believe weve  properly investigated his 
complaint. So this complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will 
explain why. 
Gefion was responsible for dealing with Mr Gs claim for the damage  to his motorbike. Mr G 
bought a separate policy through his broker, with a different insurer, for additional cover for 
his helmet and leathers. I understand that this has caused some confusion, and that is the 
subject of his other complaint about  the broker. But as our investigator explained, Gefion 
isnt responsible for the separate policy. So my decision is only about whether Gefion acted 
reasonably in the way it dealt with his motorbike insurance claim. 
Gefion was notified of the incident by the broker the day after Mr G reported it. On the same  
day Gefion instructed a salvage agent  to collect Mr Gs bike from the location he gave. But 
Gefion didnt give the correct address. It realised its error over a month later,  when it was 
prompted by Mr G. 
During October 2017 the salvage  agent tried to locate  Mr Gs bike. But the person at the 
location didnt  know where the bike was. The salvage agent visited the location,  but couldnt  
find Mr Gs bike.  
In January 2018 Mr G complained about the length of time it took to deal with his claim.  
Gefion decided the fairest way to deal with Mr Gs claim was to pay him the total loss value 
for it. In February 2018 an engineer valued Mr Gs motorbike at £2,750.  
Ref: DRN15375222In Mr Gs letter dated 28 February 2018  addressed to his broker,  he said he felt pressured 
into accepting a pre-damage valuation for his bike. He said it was totally untrue to say he 
accepted it. 
Mr G replied to his insurer following  a valuation offer of £2,750 for his motorbike. On 
13 February 2018, he wrote the following:
Whilst I am happy with this settlement for my motorcycle, it makes  no mention of my 
Helmet and Leathers. Because of this I cannot accept this as full and final 
settlement.
So I think Mr G did accept Gefions valuation for his motorbike. But Mr G believed Gefion 
was also responsible for dealing with his claim for his helmet and leathers, and that Gefion 
had included  this claim in its offer. But Gefion couldnt agree to this as it wasnt  the insurer 
for the separate  policy.  So this was the only reason Mr G refused to accept  the valuation.  
Also in February 2018, Gefion apologised to Mr G for the delay it had caused in dealing with 
his motorbike claim. For this, it waived  the excess Mr G would  have owed, which was £500. 
I think Gefion failed  to deal with Mr Gs claim in a reasonable amount of time. So I can 
understand why Mr G was frustrated  and upset by the delay. The first part of a claim is the 
excess  so normally this is always payable irrespective of the circumstances or fault. As 
Gefion waived the excess of £500,  it essentially compensated him by the same amount. 
I think this is a fair sum to reflect the delay and the poor service  it gave Mr G. (Mr G himself 
accepted that offer at the time, in a phone call and in his email dated  13 February, although 
he subsequently changed his mind  when he realised that his helmet  and leathers had not 
been included  in the claim).
So I dont  think Gefion  needs to do any more to resolve Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My 
final decision  concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not 
be engaging  in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.  But if we dont hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1537522