K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains because  Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant)  has refused to 
pay a claim under his mobile phone insurance  policy. 
All references to Assurant  include  the agents  it has appointed to handle claims. 
background
Mr M holds  a family mobile  phone insurance  policy  as a benefit of his bank  account.  The 
policy is provided by Assurant. 
Mr Ms daughter, Miss M, was using her phone on the street  and says it was snatched from 
her hand  by a passing cyclist. She tried to chase after the cyclist and asked a passer-by for 
directions to the nearest  police station. 
Miss M reported the incident to the police and travelled to her workplace, where  she used 
one of her colleagues phones to message a friend  for her parents telephone numbers.
When Miss M arrived home she arranged for her SIM card to be blocked. The handset  was 
blacklisted the following  day.
Mr M made a claim under his policy with Assurant  for the stolen phone.  Around two weeks 
later, Assurant told Mr M to put the phone into lost mode and set out details of additional 
information it needed from him. 
After initially accepting the claim and charging Mr M an excess, Assurant said the phone had 
been deactivated out of lost mode so it was closing the claim. Assurant said a number  of 
Miss Ms passwords would have been needed  in order for the phone  to be deactivated.  
Unhappy, Mr M complained to Assurant.  He said Miss M had received a text message 
purporting to be from the phone manufacturer asking for her passwords, but this was a scam 
and her details had been compromised.  Assurant  investigated Mr Ms complaint  but said it 
wouldnt be paying his claim. It said it had received information from the network provider  
confirming two other SIM cards had been  used in the phone  and a thief would need to have 
either known  Miss Ms password or used facial recognition to access the phone, which  
wouldnt have been possible. Assurant also said it thought the text message Miss M had 
received was genuine. 
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint but Assurant didnt agree, so the case was passed 
to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has concerns about  the validity of Mr Ms claim. Ive taken into account everything 
both Assurant and Mr M have said and Ive weighed up the supporting information provided  
Ref: DRN19528112by both parties. Overall,  based on everything  Ive seen,  I think  its more likely  than not that 
the version of events  which  Mr M described took place.  Ill explain why. 
Mr M has, from the outset, provided what I think is a detailed, plausible  and persuasive 
account of the circumstances  of what he says happened. He has also provided evidence  in 
support of much of what  he and Miss M have said. 
Miss M reported the theft to the police and blocked  the handset and the SIM card, as Mr Ms 
policy requires her to do. Miss M has provided a detailed description of the thief.
Mr M says he called Miss Ms phone on the evening of the theft. This is demonstrated by the 
phone bills he has provided. 
Ive seen evidence  that Miss M messaged  one of her parents from her work colleagues 
phone on the day of the theft, as she described. Mr M has sent us a screenshot of Miss Ms 
message from the day of the theft which says her phone was stolen after I finished  speaking 
to dad. These screenshots support  the version  of events which  Mr M has given and the 
phone bills for Miss Ms mobile number show a telephone call to Mr M just before the time 
Miss M says the phone was stolen. 
Assurant initially declined  Mr Ms claim is because  it said Miss Ms phone had been 
deactivated out of lost mode and a number of passwords would  have been  needed  to do 
this. Assurant has provided details of an enquiry it made with the phone manufacturer, which 
confirms passwords would have been  necessary. 
Mr Ms explanation for this is that his daughter received a scam text message asking her to 
click on a link and sign in with various passwords. Mr M says Miss M did this believing the 
link to be genuine, and her passwords could then have been used to remove  the phone from 
lost mode. Mr M has provided  us with a screenshot of the text message received by 
Miss M. 
When Mr M contacted the phone  manufacturer to ask about the message Miss M received, 
he says he was told the message was a scam and hadnt come  from them. Mr M says he 
subsequently contacted  the police about  the text message. 
Assurant says it thinks the text message is genuine.  I disagree. I think there are obvious  
indicators on reviewing the message  that suggest  it might not be authentic.  I contacted the 
phone manufacturer,  who confirmed  the message and link provided by Mr M didnt seem 
genuine.
So, Im satisfied a third party could have accessed  Miss Ms passwords and removed her 
phone from lost mode in the way Mr M described.  
Assurant says other SIM cards were  used in the phone after it was stolen. It originally said a 
SIM card ending  3123 was used in the phone on the day of the theft.  However, Assurant 
later said this number related to a voicemail  but other SIM numbers ending in 6180 and 7247 
were used.  
Assurant has provided evidence from the phone  network to confirm  these SIM cards  were 
used in the phone on the day of the theft. But the phone network  hasnt confirmed at what 
time of the day these  SIM cards were used.  Assurant says details like this are set out in 
chronological order so, in its experience, these SIM cards were used after the time Miss Ms 
phone was said to have been stolen.  I understand what Assurant says about  this but, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant fairly say its more likely than not that these SIM cards 
were used after the time Miss M says the phone was stolen.
Ref: DRN19528113If the SIM cards were  used  before  the time of the theft, this contradicts information  which  
Assurant says Mr M gave them about  Miss Ms SIM card use. However, I dont think this is 
relevant to the outcome  of the claim. 
On the other hand, even if I accept other SIM cards were used after the theft, Id still direct  
Assurant to deal with Mr Ms claim on a fair and reasonable basis taking into account the 
evidence Ive seen.  
Miss Ms phone was protected with a passcode and facial  recognition but the phone  was in 
use when it was stolen.  Therefore,  in order for other SIM cards  to be used in the phone,  it 
would need to have remained unlocked when stolen  by the cyclist. Assurant doesnt think  
this is plausible. It says a phone of this type locks on a 30 second default  and the cyclists 
concentration would have  been on leaving the incident rather than on ensuring  the phone  
remained unlocked. 
But, even  if Miss M had left the lock feature on her phone set to a default of 30 seconds, I 
dont think its unreasonable to conclude  that a thief stealing a phone  in this manner would 
realise the importance of ensuring  the phone remained unlocked and make every attempt to 
ensure this happened. 
I havent seen  any evidence confirming a password is needed to change a SIM card in a 
phone of this type,  but Assurant has provided evidence  that the original password is needed 
in order to set a new password. I appreciate Assurants concerns about this aspect of the 
claim. However, having considered the remaining circumstances and the supporting 
evidence Mr M has provided, overall  Im satisfied its more likely  than not that the phone was 
stolen in the way Mr M described. 
So, I think Mr Ms claim is covered under the terms and conditions  of his policy and I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for Assurant to refuse to accept the claim. 
Mr M also complained about Assurants  delays in dealing with his claim and says he was 
charged an excess in error.  Assurant  says it reached a claims decision within  a fair and 
reasonable timeframe  and says it arranged to refund Mr Ms excess to him the day after 
declining the claim.  
Ive reviewed what happened after Mr M registered  his claim with Assurant. Assurant began 
working on the claim four days after it was registered and contacted Mr M for information  in 
support of the claim a further eight days later. 
Mr M contacted Assurant for an update  on a number of occasions  during this time and was 
told the claim was being assessed. There were 12 days between Mr M logging his claim and 
Assurant requesting further information  from him. This is longer than Id consider usual for a 
mobile phone insurance  claim. However,  given  the information Assurant had about the claim 
at that point, I dont  think the timeframe was unreasonable in this case. 
Mr M sent Assurant the final piece  of information it had asked for (an itemised phone bill) 
nearly one month after the claim was first logged. Until Assurant had this information,  it 
couldnt progress  his claim any further. Assurant  then accepted  Mr Ms claim and charged  
him an excess. However, later the same day, Assurant identified  the phone  had been 
deactivated from lost mode and changed  its position. 
I can understand it will have been  frustrating for Mr M to first be told the claim was accepted 
and for Assurant to then change its decision. But, overall, I dont think Assurant took an 
unreasonable length of time to make a decision in this case and Im satisfied the excess  was 
refunded to Mr M as soon  as possible.  
Ref: DRN19528114However, I think Assurants decision to decline Mr Ms claim has caused  him considerable 
distress and inconvenience. In particular, I dont  think Assurant gave fair consideration to 
what Mr M said about the text message his daughter received. I think  compensation in the 
category which  this service considers moderate is warranted for the impact of Assurants 
actions on Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited must  do the following:
accept Mr Ms claim, subject to any applicable  policy excess and/or limits;
pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1952811