K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997 over the phone. Mr W says AXA France IARD  (AXA) mis-sold him PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think, on balance,  AXA made  it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because given  that the policy was sold after the account 
had already been opened, I dont think Mr W would  have been  under the impression  he 
had to have PPI. 
So while AXA no longer  has the call recording, transcript  or sales script relating to the 
sale, in the absence of persuasive  evidence to the contrary, I think  Mr W likely chose to 
take out PPI and did so without undue pressure. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr W enough clear and timely information so 
he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN11515492Its possible the information AXA gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr W  for example he was eligible for 
the cover  and he wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover  
such as those for existing medical  conditions or unusual  employment circumstances. 
And I dont think it wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying 
from the information he was likely given during the phone call. It also looks  like it was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr W would  have declined the cover had AXA done 
anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think  
he would  have  still thought he had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have  still taken out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular  case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN11515493my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1151549