K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the service provided to him by Hub Capital Limited  (Hub) in respect  
of two trading  accounts he holds with it, accounts that I will call A and B.
background
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators.  She restricted  her 
consideration of Mr Es complaint  to the following two issues:
Hub had been  unable to demonstrate that all funds remitted  by Mr E to his accounts  
were credited to them and that he could trade with those  funds.
Hub didnt make Mr E aware  when  he first began trading that it acted as agent rather 
than principle.
The adjudicator issued both parties  with an adjudication in which  she concluded that Hub 
had:
Been  able to demonstrate that $99,980  had been credited to account A (in four 
separate payments in August 2016) and that $22,930 had been  credited to account B 
(in one payment in May 2016) and Mr E had been  able to trade with these funds. 
Robust client money  protection procedures in place.
Made it clear from the outset that it acted  as agent and not as principle.
Mr E didnt agree. In summary he said he wasnt satisfied:
That all of his trades between August and October 2016 were  placed on the market.
That Hub had sufficiently demonstrated  his deposits were  treated as client money  
and protected,  for example in a segregated bank  account.
The adjudicator considered Mr Es response to her adjudication  but wasnt persuaded to 
change her mind. Therefore Mr Es complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
Its clear Mr E has very strong feelings about this matter. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr E will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Ref: DRN11322762I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In response to the adjudicators adjudication  Mr E said he wasnt satisfied  that all of his 
trades between August  and October 2016 were placed on the market. 
In respect of account  B I cant  see that Mr E placed  any trades between August and 
October 2016.
In respect of account  A I can see that Mr E placed  in the region of 500 trades between 
August and October 2016. And seven of these  trades, closed out on 7 October 2016, 
resulted in a net loss of approximately  $140,000,  80% of the total losses  suffered by Mr E on 
this account, or 140%  of his $99,980  deposit.
Now the seven trades which resulted in a net loss of $140,000, or the complete depletion of 
Mr Es deposit, was considered by one of my fellow ombudsman when he decided a 
previous complaint brought  by E. And my fellow ombudsman  concluded  that Hub had done 
nothing wrong  in respect of these trades and that the resulting  losses in respect of them  
should stand.  
So I think the adjudicator was correct  in concluding  that Mr Es complaint about his trades  
not being placed on the market had, in essence,  already been  considered  and addressed by 
our service,  in monetary loss terms at least if not in trade number terms.
But even if I wasnt in agreement with the adjudicator  on this point Ive seen  no persuasive 
evidence that Hub didnt place any of Mr Es trades  on the market. Furthermore, its not our 
role to carry out the sort or audit Mr E is seeking  in this respect.
Mr E didnt specifically respond to the adjudicators adjudication that she was satisfied that 
all funds remitted by Mr E to his accounts  were credited to them and that he could trade with 
those funds. So its unclear whether Mr E now accepts this. But for the sake  of 
completeness, and for the avoidance of any doubt,  I can confirm that Im also of the same  
view. Im satisfied that Hub has been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that all funds 
remitted by Mr E to his two accounts were credited to them  and he was able to use these 
funds to trade, something that he went on to do. Therefore I dont  uphold  this aspect of 
Mr Es complaint.
Mr E says he isnt satisfied that Hub had robust  client money protection  procedures  in place 
and he would like to see a copy of Hubs client bank account statements to satisfy  himself 
that his deposits to his trading accounts  were deposited there.
However, given what  I understand is a reluctance  on Mr Es part to accept any document 
provided by Hub as genuine,  Im not sure what purpose obtaining a copy  of Hubs  client 
bank account  statements  will serve. Im also not persuaded  that sight  of these statements is 
necessary. I say this because I find Hubs submissions on this point to be both plausible and 
persuasive, particularly  given the strict  regulatory and accounting regime under which it 
operates. But in any event,  even if wasnt persuaded by Hubs submissions on this point I 
cant see that Hubs client money  protection procedures has, in itself,  caused Mr E any loss. 
Therefore I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
Ref: DRN11322763Mr E also didnt specifically respond  to the adjudicators adjudication that she was satisfied 
that Hub had made  it clear from the outset that it acted as agent and not as principle. So its 
unclear whether Mr E now accepts this. But for the sake  of completeness,  and for the 
avoidance of any doubt, I can confirm that Im also of the same view.
Like the adjudicator  Ive checked Hubs terms of business. And having  done so, Im satisfied 
that these make it clear  in what capacity Hub operates, this being  as agent and not as 
principle. Therefore I dont  uphold  this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my conclusions.  My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr E doesnt have to 
accept my decision and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Hub Capital Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1132276