K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds Bank Plc misinformed them  about  the time limits  that would 
allow them to port their mortgage product. Mr and Mrs B would like Lloyds to refund the 
Early Repayment Charge  (ERC) that they paid.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Lloyds and a fixed interest rate mortgage product which 
had an ERC  if they redeemed the mortgage  early. Mr and Mrs B could port the mortgage 
product subject to conditions.
Mr and Mrs B put their house  on the market and the property sold quickly.  They  spoke to an 
advisor at a Lloyds  call centre who told them  that if they purchased within  a three  month 
period and ported the mortgage product that they could get the ERC refunded, At that stage 
they intended buying another property shortly after that sale.  But their intended purchase fell 
through.
Mr and Mrs B say that they spoke to a Lloyds  mortgage advisor who told them  that they had 
up to 12 months to port the mortgage product. Mr and Mrs B sold their property and 
redeemed their mortgage on 31 August 2018,  paying an ERC.  
Mr and Mrs B revisited and bid on another property and agreed to buy it on a timescale 
which was suitable  for both them  and the seller which  was six moths  after their sale had 
taken place. Mr and Mrs B had agreed to rent for six months until that date. In December 
2018 Mr and Mrs B applied to port their mortgage  product but Lloyds told them  that they 
were outside  the three month time limit to refund the ERC. 
Lloyds says that its policy is that if in these circumstances   a customer  chooses  to port 
having sold their property, that they must return within a three month  period  and make  a new 
mortgage application. Lloyds says that as the mortgage advisor Mr B spoke to was 
experienced, she was likely to have told Mr and Mrs B what Lloyds policy  was. It didnt 
accept that it was likely that the mortgage advisor  gave Mr and Mrs B incorrect information.  
Our investigator agreed with Lloyds and didnt  recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs B asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage product, they agreed to pay an ERC if they 
redeemed the mortgage early. However,  they could port the mortgage  subject to conditions. 
I checked on the Lloyds website to see what its policy was if the redemption  of the mortgage 
wasnt simultaneous  with transferring the mortgage  product to another  property. There  is a 
section What if I repay my existing mortgage  before  I apply for a new mortgage. This says 
that on redemption  of the mortgage an ERC would be payable  but if you apply for a new 
mortgage with us within three months of repaying  your existing mortgage, you can take your 
old product with you to your new mortgage.  I note that the text goes on to say This is a 
concession and it may not always  be available.
Ref: DRN19866762In this complaint  Lloyds  has also provided its policy on this to us which echoes what is set 
out on its website.  So, it seems that Lloyds had a policy  on non-simultaneous porting and Mr 
and Mrs B had applied to port outside the three month time limit which meant that they were 
unable to port the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B say that they didnt apply within the three month period because in a 
conversation with a Lloyds mortgage  adviser they were told that Lloyds  policy was different 
than this. According to Mr B the advisor told him that he didnt have to worry about the three 
month deadline that he was previously told about by the call centre. Mr B says that he was 
told that as Lloyds were  anxious to keep him as a customer that it would  be alright if they 
came back  in six months and up to a year.
I note that in a text to a friend shortly after the conversation with the adviser that Mr B says 
If we find a house within 3-6 months well get £6k back then Well its a 3 month window 
but the mortgage lady says that after 3 months we have no reason to go back to Lloyds  so 
she can justify up to 6 months to keep our business.
 In the complaint form Mr B says something  slightly different about the time period involved 
and in that he says that the mortgage  advisor  told him that although  the usual limit for 
reclaiming the ERC  is 3 months,  she could extend  that for me for 6-12 months. I note that 
the 12 month period isnt mentioned in the earlier text and it may be that Mr Bs recollection 
isnt entirely clear.
If Mr Bs purpose in this conversation was to question  the time period  for reclaiming  the 
ERC, the response  from the advisor  could be consistent with Lloyds policy. I assume the 
reclaim can be done after the 3 months period although the new mortgage application would 
have to be done within that period. 
The problem I have  in upholding  the complaint is that Lloyds has a policy which  is available  
to all on its website and should certainly be known  by a mortgage adviser. Its difficult to 
understand why the mortgage  adviser would give different information than appears on 
Lloyds website and on its written policy. 
Mr B says that he was given information by the second mortgage  adviser  which is at odds 
with Lloyds policy. I have  no independent record of what was said in that second  
conversation. Mr B is obviously doing  his best to recollect it but recollections can be 
imperfect particularly in a conversation with a degree of complexity about non-simultaneous 
porting of a mortgage product.
 From what  Mr B says in the complaint form I have to consider the possibility that the adviser 
may have  understood she was responding to a question about when the ERC could be 
reclaimed rather than when the application  for the new mortgage had to be submitted. I dont 
believe from the evidence  available that on balance I can fairly uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint that the adviser misled  them. So, I dont uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Ref: DRN19866763Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1986676