K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Metro Bank  PLCs  decision not to refund a transfer of £9,550 he made 
when falling victim to a scam. 
background
In 2015, Mr D opened an account for the proceeds of a personal injury settlement to be paid 
into. He explains  he thought it had been  set up as a trustee account requiring one of his 
parents to counter sign before any transactions over £500  could be made. Mr D has said 
that concerns  around how the account  has been  set up will be addressed with the bank 
separately.
In late November 2018, Mr D saw a camper van advertised on an online auction website. 
He contacted the seller to discuss the vehicles specification. The seller confirmed the 
vehicle had everything Mr D was looking for and provided Mr D with further photographs of 
it. Mr D decided to go ahead and agreed  a price  to buy it now. He didnt see the vehicle 
beforehand.
The seller  told Mr D the payment would be held by the auction  website  for five days to give 
him the opportunity to test drive it before any money was released. Mr D was told the 
camper van would be delivered  to his house  at 10am on 24 November 2018. Having agreed 
a deal, Mr D was then sent an invoice to pay in full. He explains that he spoke  to an advisor 
on an online  chat facility  who provided him with the account  details to transfer  the money to. 
Unfortunately, Mr D was dealing with a scammer. 
On 22 November 2018, Mr D went into his local Metro Bank branch to make the payment 
using some of the funds  in his trust account.  He explains  that his mum was on her way to the 
branch to provide her signature,  but she arrived late, and after the payment had already 
been made. 
Sadly, the camper van did not arrive  as arranged. Mr D realised hed been the victim of a 
scam after speaking  to the auction  website. Mr D contacted Metro Bank around lunchtime on 
24 November 2018 to report the scam. Metro Bank tried to recover the funds but none of the 
money sent remained.  
Mr D complained to Metro Bank. He said the banks  employee should  not have sent the 
funds with just his signature for the transaction. He also said he wasnt warned about this 
type of scam at the time the payment was made,  and that the banks employee didnt ask 
him any questions about  what it was for. 
Metro investigated  Mr Ds concerns but didnt agree. In summary, it said Mr D was the only 
authorised signatory on the account and there  had been large payments made  using just his 
signature as authority previously. It felt the branch employee that served Mr D had correctly 
followed the banks  procedures by sending the payment to the details he had provided. 
It didnt think there  was any way to know the details hed provided would lead to him 
becoming a victim of fraud. 
Mr D, unhappy with what had happened  and Metro  Banks response  to the matter, referred 
his complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN18789672When referring its complaint papers to us, Metro said it was unreasonable to expect it to 
cover the loss. In summary it added: 
The cashier followed Mr Ds instructions and there wasnt  anything  to indicate the 
transaction was suspicious 
Making a payment  for a vehicle isnt a suspicious activity
Mr D would have needed to pay for the camper van first before receiving it and there  
was no reason for him to have  known the seller personally given how they found 
each other
There was no reason for the cashier to have questioned the auction  websites  
practices and Mr D should have checked  how it operated by doing his own research. 
It did not think it was the role of the cashier to know the processes and systems of 
other institutions.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  He 
considered that Metro  should have done more to make sure Mr D wasnt  at risk of suffering 
financial harm.
In reaching his opinion, our investigator thought that the British Standards Institutes (BSI)
Protecting customers from financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse  Code of
practice published in October  2017 was relevant.  This was because the BSI Code of
practice set out some  key principles for businesses to work  to in the detection of fraud and
financial abuse.
The investigator considered the transaction was out of character and unusual for
Mr D and therefore shouldve alerted  Metro  Bank  to the possibility that he was at
risk of financial  harm. He said the evidence hed been provided with suggested Mr D wasnt 
asked any questions whilst he was in the branch and no warnings about  scams were 
provided to him. He thought Metro  Bank  had missed an opportunity  to look into things  before  
Mr D sent any money and if had done  so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve 
unravelled and the loss prevented. 
He said Metro should refund the amount Mr D lost as a result of the scam and pay him £200  
to acknowledge  the upset hed been caused.  
Metro didnt agree. In summary, it said:
The Banking Protocol  only applies when a bank is already suspicious  of a transaction  
and is not a guide on what  the industry  should consider suspicious
Metro Bank do not consider this transfer  to be suspicious and the branch colleague 
was not concerned about it
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is setting standards that go beyond what 
legislation and regulation require
There is no alignment or involvement  across the industry as to what  constitutes good 
industry practice 
It is not possible for a bank to always be able to detect unusual behaviour in every 
case
There was no requirement  for Metro  Bank  to provide Mr D an explicit  scam warning 
at the time he made the transfer and it is unfair and unreasonable to expect Metro  
Bank to have done so
Mr D should have  carried  out his own due diligence into the payment he was making, 
especially given its value
Ref: DRN18789673As Metro Bank disagreed  and the matter hasnt  been resolved, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story:
  The law recognises  that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). 
 Regulated  firms  like Metro Bank are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests  
of its customers (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
 identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in recent 
years and by the British  Bankers Associations (BBA) February  2016  report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances and 2010 publication Safeguarding 
vulnerable customers.  Banking best practice: advice for bank staff); 
 look to identify  and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also recognised  
by the BSI Code  of Practice, which a number  of banks and trade associations were  involved 
in the development of); and 
 in relation  to branch  transactions   follow the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
Ref: DRN18789674This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
Metro Bank  argues that the Financial Ombudsman  Service is setting standards  that go 
beyond what legislation  and regulation  require. It has pointed  out that it had no involvement  
in the building of the BSI Code of Practice. So Metro Bank considers that it was unfair  for
the investigator to consider the BSI Code of practice  as relevant when determining Mr Ds
complaint.
The BSI Code of practice  gives  recommendations to organisations for protecting  customers 
from financial harm that might occur as a result of fraud or financial abuse. It also gives 
guidance on how to recognise customers who might be at risk, how to assess the potential 
risks to the individual  and how to take the necessary actions to prevent or minimise financial 
harm.
I recognise that Metro  Bank was not itself a signatory to the BSI Code of practice.  But 
I consider the BSI Code of practice was in any event a reasonable articulation of what 
I consider to have already been  good industry  practice at the time Mr D made the payment 
and that it sets out the kinds of practical steps businesses might  fairly and reasonably  take. 
I dont think the BSI Code of Practice suggested wholly new practices. 
Of particular relevance in this complaint is the Banking Protocol and the BBA publication 
Safeguarding vulnerable customers.  Banking best practice: advice for bank staff  (which for 
simplicity I will refer to as the BBA best practice  note), so I have set out more information 
about them  below.  
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading 
Standards aimed  at identifying customers who are in the process  of being defrauded and 
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds. 
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit, financial businesses commit to: 
 Look  out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the Banking 
Protocol procedure when  such  transactions are identified. 
 Discreetly question  the customer about the withdrawal or transaction and their reasons for 
making it, keeping in mind  that the customer may have been told they are helping to catch a 
corrupt bank employee and may have been given a cover story  to tell if asked about  the 
transaction. 
 Consider the responses provided by a customer against what they expect normal activity  
on that customers account to be. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer may 
be the victim  of fraud,  they should notify a senior member of staff, who should  take the 
customer to a quiet  area and ask further questions  to establish more details.
 If the senior  member  of staff believes the customer is a victim of fraud, either as a result  of 
the answers provided or through  their general behaviour,  they should call the Police 
immediately. The Police will then come  to the branch  and speak to the customer. 
Ref: DRN18789675It also sets out that bank  staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they arent sure 
the customer is a victim  of fraud. For example, UK Finances Bank Colleague  FAQs says:
I think a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the Banking 
Protocol? Yes. If you have questioned  the customer and are still not sure,  the police urge 
you to still call them. It is not possible to answer  every what  if so if you are suspicious  or 
concerned but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking  Protocol.  
You might prevent a customer becoming the victim of a crime.
The Banking Protocol  was first launched  in October  2016 and has been  fully in force 
nationwide since March  2018, so it would  have been  in force  when Mr D made his payment 
in November 2018.  
The various pieces  of published  good  industry  practice, codes and guidance that Ive set out 
above all point to Metros responsibility  to help protect its customers from fraud  and to look 
out for out of character and unusual  transactions.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Metro acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr D when he made a payment of £9,550 in branch to a scammer,  or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Did Metro Bank act fairly and reasonably  in this case? 
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice Metro Bank should have been 
on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions. 
Ive thought carefully about whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that there 
were enough  of the hallmarks of a potential fraud present for Metro to have  had reasonable 
grounds for some concern  and ask more questions than it appears to have done that day. In 
all the circumstances  of this case,  Im satisfied, on balance, there was.
If the funds  are available,  a bank usually shouldnt refuse to make a payment its customer 
wants to make. In this case, Mr D went into branch to make the payment because  he wanted 
to buy the camper  van. Theres  been  some debate around whether Mr D could  make  a 
payment of more than £500 from his account  without requiring  a second signature.  
From what  Ive seen, I think Mr D was able to make  larger transactions on his account 
without requiring a second signature. Ive seen a copy of the account  mandate that was in 
place at that time and it allowed Mr D to operate the account on his own. In addition,  theres  
a number of card and in branch transactions for more than £500 over the years that show  
this was the way that the account ran. 
Mr D has said the confusion around how the account is structured  and whether it should  
have been allowed to operate in this way will be raised with the bank separately,  but for the 
purposes of this complaint, Im persuaded that Mr D was able to authorise a payment of 
£9,550 on his own and that at the time he went into branch it was one he wanted  to make.  
This means  this was authorised  payment  even  though Mr D was the victim  of a sophisticated 
scam. Although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions  of his account, Mr D is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.   
Ref: DRN18789676Was the payment  unusual  for Mr D? 
Looking at Mr Ds account statements, I can see that he did make  larger  payments from time 
to time. The previous year hed made card payments of over £1,000 to a holiday resort and 
another large card payment to a motorcycle retailer. But its not an account that is used for 
typical day to day or household  spending. Theres nothing to suggest  any of these payments 
are regular payments.  In the months leading up to the scam, Mr D uses  the account 
infrequently. He made no payments at all between  February and July 2018 and only uses 
the account infrequently and to make  purchases  which appear to me to have been for 
specific things, such as the card payments he made to an airline  in October  2018.
Against this backdrop, I am persuaded that a payment of this size was unusual and out of 
character for Mr D. Its clear from what hes said about it that Mr D also considered  it to be a 
one-off payment utilising a significant  amount  of his savings. He described it as a huge 
amount of money  being transferred and explains that he printed  off all the paperwork, 
including the invoice the scammer had given him and went into the branch to make the 
payment. He suggests the banks employee  was inexperienced and focused on how to 
process the payment and did not check any of his paperwork. 
As Im persuaded this payment was unusual  and out of character for Mr D, I think  Metro  
Bank ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter  of good practice, to have made enquiries 
about the purpose of the payment before processing  it, especially as branch staff should be 
on the lookout for any potentially unusual or out of character transaction. 
Metro Bank  has said it did not consider the payment to be suspicious and the banks 
employee that assisted  Mr D had no concerns about it. But I think Metro  Bank  should  
reasonably have taken additional steps and made additional checks with Mr D before 
processing this particular payment. Banks  dont  need to be certain a fraud is happening to 
ask additional  questions about a payment  a customer is intending to make. 
Mr D was duped by a scammer posing  as a genuine seller on an auction website. Its a 
common type of scam and one that I think Metro  Bank ought to have been  aware  of at the 
time. If the banks employee had asked Mr D what the money  was for, I dont doubt that he 
would have said it was to purchase  a camper van hed found online. Its clear from what hes 
told us that he was excited about  buying the vehicle and had imagined  going on holiday with 
his family  in the vehicle so its not hard to imagine  that he would have been willing  to have a 
similar conversation with the banks employee  had he been asked. Im also mindful  that Mr D 
thought he was making a legitimate payment  and hadnt been coached  or told to tell the 
bank it was for anything  else.  
So upon  finding out Mr D was making  a payment to an online seller for a camper  van that 
hed found advertised on an auction  website, Metro Bank would have  had the opportunity to 
ask him some  further questions,  based  on what it knew about this type of scam. It should 
have had a decent conversation with him about the nature of the payment he was making  
and the potential risks. Whilst I accept  branch  staff ultimately have to make decisions based  
on information they are given  by customers, it is up to branch staff to find out enough 
information about the purpose of the payment. 
I think its fair to say that the primary concern of the Banking Protocol is consumer protection 
rather than, for example,  to help financial businesses avoid liability.  So the skill of bank staff 
and the types  of questions that get asked in the particular  circumstances of a transaction   
and most  notably  when  a consumer wishes to transfer an unusually large sum of money - 
Ref: DRN18789677will be important.  In saying this, I expect  most  people understand there are limits to how far a 
bank can or should  go when  asking  questions.  And of course, most bank customers wont be 
fraud victims, so I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck. 
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Metro Bank made  enquiries  with 
Mr D before processing the payment. Of course  I cant know for sure what wouldve  
happened, so Ive thought about what is more likely than not to have been the case.  
When Mr D explained the reason for the payment, Metro Bank could have asked  him if hed 
seen the camper  van in person or taken  it for a test drive. Whilst its not implausible that a 
customer would want to make a one off, larger  than usual  payment to buy an expensive item 
like a camper van, Id expect the banks  employee to use their knowledge and experience  of 
scams to consider  whether  there  should  be any wider concerns about the payment its 
customer wants to make.
Bearing this in mind, and given the prevalence of this type of scam, I think  Metro ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have  asked Mr D about  the purchase he wanted to make.  It could have 
told Mr D that scammers copy genuine  adverts and send emails that can look very 
convincing, using similar logos and formatting as a genuine email  from the auction  website. 
Its in asking open questions and engaging in a dialogue  around the wider  surrounding 
circumstances that a scam like this can be revealed and prevented.   
Had it done so, Im persuaded Mr D would have said that he hadnt seen the vehicle and that 
its more likely than not he would have gone  on to explain about the holding account 
arrangement for the money. Mr D hadnt been  given a cover story at any point, so Im 
persuaded that he would have answered these basic questions about the payment he was 
making naturally  and without any hesitation. Metro Bank would have then recognised from 
his answers there was a possibility Mr D might be at risk of financial harm  because even the 
basic details of his intended purchase shared many of the hallmarks of this kind of scam. 
Had Metro Bank alerted  Mr D to the fact that scams involving vehicles on auction websites 
are sadly  very common and talked to him about what  those scams looked like and felt like, 
I believe this scam  would more likely than not have come to light.  Mr D would not have 
needed to share very much information  about the purchase he wanted  to make to put 
Metro Bank  on notice that there  was a strong  possibility that he was the unwitting victim of a 
scam. 
Mr D has told us this money came from his life savings obtained following an accident  and 
Im not persuaded that he would have parted with them lightly. If Metro had asked some  
simple questions related  to the purpose of the payment and used its expertise to make Mr D 
aware of the possible risks when buying a vehicle online, I think its more likely than not 
significant doubt would have been  put into Mr Ds mind about whether he really wanted to 
make the payment. It follows that the funds would not then have been  sent to the scammer  
and lost. In this case, I think Metro Bank  missed  the opportunity to uncover indicators that 
Mr D might have  been at risk. As a result, I think Metro Bank should refund the money Mr D 
lost as part of this scam.
Overall, Mr Ds transaction of £9,550 was unusual  and out of character for him. Metro  Bank  
could have done more to prevent it from happening  and it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have picked up on the scam by making checks and probing into the purpose of the payment 
before processing  it. Im persuaded that had Metro Bank asked at least some questions to 
understand the purchase Mr D wanted to make, it is more likely than not the scam would 
Ref: DRN18789678have come to light and Mr D wouldnt have transferred the funds. I consider Metro  Banks  
failure to probe caused this particular  scam  to succeed. 
Metro Bank  has suggested  that Mr D should have carried out his own due diligence into the 
payment before making  it, especially given its value.  But Mr D didnt realise  that something 
might not be right with the purchase at the time and Im not persuaded that was 
unreasonable in all the circumstances.  I consider Mr D to have been the unwitting and 
blameless victim of a clever scammer. Scammers are by their very nature, convincing in 
order to fool and deceive a victim.  Mr D has provided copies of the information the scammer 
gave him to explain how the payment  system and buyer protection  worked. Hes explained 
that the scammer gave him plausible explanations.  What Mr D has recalled about the online 
chat function suggests the scammer had a slick operation that looked and felt genuine. Mr D 
does not have as much knowledge or experience  of this type of scam as Metro  Bank  does. 
I dont think he has missed an opportunity to recognise for himself that he was at risk of 
financial harm. 
The impact  of the banks actions  on Mr D
Metro Bank  knew from the outset  that the funds in Mr Ds account were the proceeds of a 
settlement he received  following  an accident  at work. He has described ongoing physical 
and mental health  struggles as a result of a degenerative condition stemming from his 
injuries. 
Being the victim of a cruel  scam  is an awful experience for anyone to have to go through.  
Mr D had made plans for what he wanted  to do with the money  that now cant be fulfilled.  
The money thats been lost is very hard for him to replace. 
Metro Bank  missed an opportunity to prevent Mr D from losing  this money as a result  of the 
scam. I consider that it exposed him to detriment by not acting with the appropriate level of 
care. Had Metro Bank done what it ought fairly  and reasonably to have done, it could have 
stopped Mr D from sending the money and reduced the overall impact of the scam on him. 
Considering everything, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Metro Bank 
should pay Mr D £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
directly as a result of its actions.
putting things right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Metro  Bank  PLC. I do not 
think it was fair and reasonable for Metro Bank PLC to not refund the amount Mr D lost 
through being victim of a scam.
I now direct  Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund the £9,550  Mr D lost through the scam  
Metro Bank is aware that I think it should  compensate Mr D for being deprived of this 
money. As it is not clear in this particular case what else he would have  used it for, 
Metro Bank should pay simple  interest on the £9,550 paid to the scammer from 
Mr Ds account from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement. The interest  
rate should  be 8% a year.*
Ref: DRN18789679Pay Mr D £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Metro Bank to take off tax from this interest.  
Metro Bank  must give Mr D a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Metro Bank  PLC should calculate and pay compensation as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1878967