K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1996. Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building  Society, trading at the time as 
The Derbyshire Building Society (Nationwide), mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide responded to confirm they had no further comments to make.  I havent  received 
any response from Mr and Mrs C. As I havent  received  any new information  which  alters  my 
outcome, I see no reason  to change my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide should  pay back  the proportion of the premiums that were  paid for the 
unemployment cover  for Mrs C as detailed in their previous offer and pay the 
applicable interest.
Nationwide also has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium (excluding the premium  paid towards 
unemployment cover  for Mrs C). Nationwide should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs C the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont  
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold in its entirety  so Nationwide Building Society does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Nationwide Building Society should  reimburse Mr and Mrs C the premiums they paid 
for the unemployment  part of the policy for Mrs C.
And Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  (excluding the premium 
paid towards unemployment  cover  for Mrs C).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Ref: DRN11615392Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11615393copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
1996. Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide  Building  Society, trading at the time as The Derbyshire
Building Society (Nationwide), mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage. At the same time they took out a PPI policy. The policy 
provided them  both with cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment. They  paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. If either of them had made a successful claim the policy would have paid out 
50% of the monthly  benefit for up to 12 months.
When reviewing the complaint, Nationwide noted that Mrs C was working two part-time jobs at the 
time of taking out the policy.  As this would  have made it more difficult  for her to claim under the 
unemployment section of the policy,  Nationwide has offered to reimburse
Mr and Mrs C for the premiums paid for the unemployment portion  of Mrs Cs policy.
The complaint was initially  upheld by an adjudicator on the basis that Mr C was suffering from a 
medical condition at the time of taking  out the policy  and that it wasnt brought  to Mr and Mrs Cs 
attention that this condition may not have been covered. Nationwide disagreed  with this 
assessment, saying that there wasnt enough medical  evidence  to support that the medical  
condition had been diagnosed at the time of taking  out the policy.
The case was reviewed by another adjudicator who upheld the complaint for different  reasons. 
The adjudicator noted that Nationwide had offered  to reimburse Mrs C for the unemployment 
premiums she had paid but felt it wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs C at the time that Mrs C could 
have had a separate policy which covered her for accident and sickness only,  whilst Mr C had a 
policy for the full benefit  - accident, sickness and unemployment. So the adjudicator said a full 
refund of the policy should be made.
Once again  Nationwide  disagreed with this outcome and so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive noted that Nationwide has offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the premiums paid for the 
unemployment cover  for Mrs C as it said she would have found it more difficult to claim as a result 
of her having  two jobs. Ive considered this and I think this is a fair offer to make. So I do think  
Nationwide needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for this part of the policy.
But I dont agree that the rest of the policy for both Mr and Mrs C has been mis-sold  and so I dont 
intend to uphold the remainder of the complaint. Ill explain  my reasons for reaching  this outcome.
I think Nationwide made it clear  that Mr and Mrs C didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose 
to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. I say this because  Ive been 
given a copy  of a document titled  Paymentscover Insurance  Declaration  - the name  Nationwide  
gave to PPI  which was completed at the time and I can see that this included boxes to tick if you 
Ref: DRN11615394wanted to accept or decline to take out the PPI. On the form I can see that the box to accept to take 
out the PPI has been  ticked and both Mr and Mrs C have signed the form to confirm  their selection. If 
Mr and Mrs C didnt want to take out the PPI they could have  ticked the No box.
Mr and Mrs C have told us they felt pressured into taking out the policy and that they were led to 
believe they had to take the cover. Ive looked at the documents but I havent seen anything which 
shows that the policy was compulsory  or a requirement  of the lending. And if it was a condition  of the 
lending that the PPI was taken out, I wouldnt  expect to see options to decline the policy.
So based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Nationwide made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take it out, even if they dont recall that now.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the information they needed to decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this type of cover. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like they were  affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have put them  off taking out the cover.
We have  been told that Mr C takes medication for a condition. The PPI policy excluded  claims for 
medical conditions which you were aware  of as existing  or pending at the date the policy started  or 
for which you saw a doctor or received treatment for in the 12 months prior to taking the policy which 
recurs during the first 24 months of the cover.  It isnt clear whether this exclusion was brought to Mr 
and Mrs Cs attention at the time. But that doesnt mean I should automatically  uphold the complaint. 
I need to consider if Mr and Mrs C would have still taken  the policy  even if they had been made  
aware of this exclusion.
It isnt clear what condition Mr C suffered with or even when he was diagnosed. As it isnt clear  
whether Mr C was suffering from a medical condition  at the time of taking the policy, or within the 12 
months previously, Im unable to say for certain that this exclusion would  have impacted his 
likelihood to be able to claim.  But from the limited  information I do have,  it appears Mr C wasnt likely 
to have taken any time off work for this condition. And so I think its unlikely Mr C would have 
expected to have been off work for an extended  period of time for this condition and therefore  need 
to make a claim. So even  if Mr C had been made fully aware that this policy may have not covered 
claims for pre-existing conditions, I dont think it would have made  him think any differently about 
taking out the policy.
In the last assessment of the case, the adjudicator felt that the complaint should  be upheld as it 
wasnt clear  from the documentation that Mr and Mrs C could have purchased different levels  of 
cover. In its response to the assessment, Nationwide has told us it was always possible to take out 
different types  of cover  and they could  have  simply  completed two separate  forms. Ive looked  at the 
paperwork and the policy wording and I cant see anything  which suggests  that joint mortgagees had 
to have the same cover  under the PPI policy. And so I dont  agree that Mr and Mrs C should  receive 
a refund of all the premiums  they paid for the PPI.
Which means Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN11615395To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  (excluding the premium paid towards  
unemployment cover  for Mrs C) - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Nationwide should pay back the proportion  of the premiums that were paid for the unemployment  
cover for Mrs C as detailed in their previous  offer and pay the applicable interest.
Nationwide also has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium (excluding  the premium paid towards unemployment  cover for 
Mrs C). Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs C any extra interest  they paid because of 
that.
Nationwide should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back the tax if 
they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold in its entirety  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Nationwide Building Society should reimburse  Mr and Mrs C the premiums they paid for the 
unemployment part of the policy  for Mrs C.
And Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium (excluding  the premium paid towards 
unemployment cover  for Mrs C).
Ref: DRN1161539