K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about two monthly  premium PPI policies, taken out with mortgages in 1993 
and 1998.
Both mortgages were  in Mr and Mrs Bs joint names. The PPI policy taken out in 1993 was in 
Mr Bs sole name. It would have paid Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage payments for up to 
12 months per successful claim if Mr B had been  off sick, or if hed lost his job.
The benefit  under  the 1998 policy was split equally between  Mr and Mrs B. So it would have 
paid half the full monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if either  of them  had made a successful 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The 1993  sale
Halifax no longer has copies of the paperwork Mr and Mrs B signed  when they took out 
the mortgage and PPI in 1993.  I dont think  thats  surprising or unreasonable,  given  how 
long ago this was. But it means  that I dont have enough evidence to enable me to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs B werent  given a fair choice about whether to take out the PPI.
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor Halifax have  been  able to tell us how the PPI was sold in 
1993, or whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. Again, I think thats 
understandable, given  the time thats passed. For the purposes  of this decision,  Ive 
assumed that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. This is to Mr and Mrs Bs 
advantage, as it means that Halifax had a responsibility to check  that the PPI was 
suitable for them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B would have been entitled to six months  full pay, 
followed by six months half pay if hed been off sick or had an accident. And they say 
hed have received at least  six months pay if hed been made redundant. But if hed 
made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid out for up to 12 months.  
Thats longer than Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to full pay for. Whats more,  it 
would have  paid out in addition to any payments Mr B received from his employer. So 
Mr and Mrs B could  have used those to meet  other day-to-day expenses.  And they 
wouldnt have  had to use their savings to make  their monthly mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN16154112Ive also borne  in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured  on Mr and Mrs Bs home. And the consequences of not keeping 
up with their mortgage payments could have been serious.  So taking everything into 
account, I think the PPI could have been  useful for Mr and Mrs B. 
It may be that Halifax could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
the policy  was competitively  priced, and Ive seen nothing to make  me think  that Mr and 
Mrs B couldnt afford it. So even  if Halifax had given them  better information about the 
cost, I think its likely theyd still have bought it.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover  for example,  
unusual working  arrangements, or existing medical conditions. But based  on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time,  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been 
affected by any of these.
The 1998  sale
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs signed  application for the 1998 mortgage.  It includes 
a section on Accident,  sickness and unemployment insurance (PPI). It says it 
recommends that the applicant consider the cover. It then asks whether they require it. 
There are various options, with boxes to tick, including an option  to decline the cover.  
An extra box has been added in manuscript, and ticked. Next to it, it says I already 
have Halifax Repayments Insurance and details  of the policy  number and start date are 
given. Mr B has signed in a box below that.
Ive also seen  Mr and Mrs Bs separate, signed PPI application  for the 1998  policy. It 
includes a breakdown of their monthly mortgage payments and related costs (for 
example, a monthly life assurance  premium), and shows a total monthly benefit required 
to cover  those costs of £650. Mr and Mrs Bs names have  both been  filled in, in the 
section for names of insured  persons,  and both signed  the form.
Taking everything  into account, I think Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI 
was optional.  And Im satisfied that they decided to take it, knowing that they had a 
choice  although I can understand how Mr and Mrs B may no longer remember this, so 
many years after the event.
Halifaxs  records show that Mr and Mrs B applied for the 1998  mortgage and PPI at one 
of its branches. Mr and Mrs B understandably cant remember  whether Halifax  
recommended the PPI to them. But Halifax says it would have done. Again, for the 
purposes of this decision,  Ive assumed that this is right,  as its to Mr and Mrs Bs 
advantage, for the reasons Ive set out above.  But it doesnt look as if the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  in 1998.
The 1998 policy would have paid half of the full monthly benefit if either Mr or Mrs B had 
made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. And it would  have 
done so for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to 
full pay from his employer for. And although  Mr and Mrs B havent been  able to provide 
full details of Mrs Bs entitlement to sick pay and redundancy pay at the time, it would be 
unusual to be entitled to 12 months  full sick pay. And as with the 1993  policy, the 1998 
policy would  have  paid out in addition to any payments Mr and Mrs B received from their 
respective employers.
Ref: DRN16154113Mr and Mrs B have told us that they had significant savings at the time of both sales.  
And I can see that some  savings are referred to on the application for the 1998 
mortgage. But theyd  chosen to protect  those, rather than taking out a smaller mortgage.  
And the PPI policy would have allowed Mr and Mrs B to continue to protect  their savings. 
So considering  all of this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a 
loan secured on their home, I think Mr and Mrs B could  have found the PPI useful.
The monthly cost of the PPI was shown  on the PPI application which Mr and Mrs B 
signed. So I think theyd have known how much theyd need to pay for the cover.  And as 
they were paying for it monthly,  they could have  cancelled it at any time without further 
cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer needed the cover.
As with the 1993 sale, I accept that its possible that Halifax didnt draw  Mr and Mrs Bs 
attention to the main things the policy didnt cover. But based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been affected  by any of 
these. So I dont  think better information  about  the policy  would have put them  off taking it out.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including  what  theyve said about  Halifax  
not having explained the cancellation  process for the PPI to them.  But I think  its likely that if 
Mr and Mrs B had wished to cancel the policy, theyd  have  contacted Halifax to enquire 
about it. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that they did so. 
Ive also borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs B have commented that Mr B didnt claim on the PPI 
when he was made redundant a few years after taking out the 1998  policy.  Theyve 
suggested that this shows  that they didnt know that they had the cover. I cant know why 
Mr B didnt make a claim  on the policy at the time.  But the fact that he didnt claim doesnt 
change my conclusion  that the policies werent  mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1615411