K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a car he has through  finance  with Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) trading as 
Honda Contract Hire, is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr D took receipt of a new car in November 2013. He financed  the deal through a five year 
hire agreement with Lex. But in August 2018 he told them hed like to reject the car as he 
was unhappy  with it. He said:
1.the tyre deflation warning light had shown for the entirety of the cars life despite no 
fault being present
2.the tyres  had worn  excessively
3.the car used too much  oil
4.the disc brakes  made a noise when  engaged
5.the water in fuel lamp had been  showing since 2018
6.the brake pedal travel was excessive
7.the car hesitated to pick up speed
Lex said that with regard to issues 1 to 4 a considerable  amount of time had passed since 
the issues first came  to light and they thought it reasonable that if the issues  were  a major 
concern Mr D wouldve  brought them  to their attention. But he hadnt.
They said it was Mr Ds responsibility  to maintain  the car and they thought it was reasonable 
to suggest the oil in fuel and brake travel issues were for him to resolve and that they had no 
liability for them.
But Mr D was disappointed with their response so he referred  his complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He reviewed the service record  provided by the 
dealership but he couldnt  find any evidence that Mr Ds car had been at the dealership with 
regard to the tyre deflation and he explained it would  therefore be unfair to suggest Lex had 
done anything  wrong if they didnt know about the issue.
He said tyres and brakes were serviceable parts  so hed expect some fair wear  and tear. He 
noted that a health check  performed  on the car in May 2014 found  no issue with the brakes 
and the first tyre was replaced in 2016 after the car had covered significant  mileage. So he 
didnt think Lex could  be held responsible  for the problems Mr D had complained about in 
these areas.
He looked at the service history and noted  that in 2018 there was no mention of any problem 
with water in the fuel. He thought there  would have been if a problem existed  at that time so 
he didnt think it would  be fair to hold Lex responsible for a problem that had occurred more 
recently.
He also considered the complaint that Mr D had made about  the car hesitating  to pick up 
speed. But he noted that a five mile test drive  had been completed in 2015  and no issues 
were found.  So again, he didnt think it would  be fair to hold Lex accountable for a problem 
that hadnt been diagnosed or identified. He also noted that whilst Mr D had complained  
about clinking  noises from the brakes  there was no evidence  of the problem being  
investigated or worked on.
Ref: DRN18741522So overall, he didnt  think Lex needed  to take any further action. But Mr D disagreed.  He 
explained that servicing had often been  completed  when he was abroad  with work but when 
hed taken it to the garage in the UK; it had been  inspected without any paperwork being  
completed. He provided some copies of communication with Lex in early  2014 when hed 
mentioned there were  problems with his current car. He asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D but I agree with the adjudicators opinion.  Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The relevant  law says that the car should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Lex are responsible.  So if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Lex to put 
this right.  
But Lexs  responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
hesitation when accelerating and the tyre pressure lamp
These appear to be the issues Mr D says he complained about early  on. Unfortunately 
theres no record of Mr D registering a complaint about the tyre pressure light. So I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to accept  that the problem  was there at the point of supply. As 
the car has been  in Mr Ds possession for five years I think its more  likely to have happened  
subsequently.
I can see that the hesitation issue was highlighted  to the dealership  in 2015 and no fault was 
found. In the absence  of any information clarifying  theres an issue, it would be unreasonable  
to hold Lex accountable and given  that the first record of the problem is in 2015 it would 
appear most  likely  that it too was a problem  that started at some  point after the inception of 
the finance agreement.
brake pedal travel, brake noise and tyre wear
These are serviceable items and some  wear and tear is inevitable.  I wouldnt think  it fair to 
hold Lex accountable for fair levels of wear  and tear and regardless,  I can see that in May 
2014 no issues were  identified with the brakes and that the first tyre wasnt  fitted  until 2016. 
So I dont  think theres evidence of excessive tyre wear or a problem with the brakes at the 
point of supply.
Ref: DRN18741523oil consumption and oil in fuel
I cant see excessive oil consumption or oil in fuel has been  considered  at any point by the 
dealership and I wouldve thought an issue of this nature wouldve become apparent during 
servicing. So Im afraid I cant  agree that theres evidence of excessive  oil consumption  or oil 
in fuel sensor problems that were apparent or developing at the point of supply. 
Overall, Im afraid theres not sufficient  evidence here to suggest any of the problems  Mr D 
complains of were present at the point of supply and are therefore Lexs responsibility. I 
dont think they therefore need  to take any further action
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1874152