K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about the service that shes received from Lex Autolease  Limited in 
connection with the collection of a car at the end of a hire agreement.
background
A car was supplied  to Miss M under a hire agreement that she signed in March  2015. The 
agreement was for three years and collection of the car was arranged in March  2018. But 
the car wasnt collected from her until early April 2018. She complained to Lex Autolease 
about the issues that shed had with the collection.  It credited her account for the extra days 
rental that shed been charged because  of the delayed collection and it offered her £25 as 
an apology for the inconvenience that shed experienced. Miss M wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that £25 
adequately compensated  Miss M for the inconvenience that shed experienced. He 
recommended that it should pay her £50 (in addition to the £25 bringing the total 
compensation to £75) in recognition of the inconvenience she was caused  in trying to return 
the car. 
Lex Autolease has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that:
no booking was ever confirmed to collect the car on the date requested by Miss M so 
she shouldnt have  assumed it was to go ahead on that day and it was booked for the 
next available date  which was three days after the requested  date;
it has credited the rentals for the period after the collection  date requested by Miss M;
it cant evidence that Miss M requested the collection  to be made  from her work 
address  and the location  was changed  from her home to her work at her request to 
the collection agent; 
she was advised  to ensure that the car was roadworthy and driveable but the cars  
MOT certificate  had expired so, although  the collection failed on the agreed  date,  it 
wouldnt have been able to go ahead as the car didnt  have  a valid MOT certificate; 
it offered her £25 due the fact that no-one turned  up for the car and she wasnt 
contacted to notify her of that; and
it has credited Miss M for the only failed collection  that can be evidenced when the 
collection agent didnt  show  up but it wouldnt have been able to go ahead then as 
the cars  MOT had expired.
Miss M says that she hasnt received the £25 compensation from Lex Autolease.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Miss M asked for the car to be collected on her 
preferred collection  date  which was before the cars MOT expired. But the collection agent  
was unable to collect the car on that date so a collection was booked for three days  later.  
The cars MOT  wouldve expired by then and I consider it to be more likely than not that 
Miss M told Lex Autolease  about  that and it agreed  that the car would be collected  using a 
low-loader. It credited Miss Ms account for the extra days rental because the car wasnt 
being collected on her preferred collection date.
Ref: DRN19018782Miss M says that she asked for the car to be collected from her at work but the confirmation 
texts from the collection  agent said that the car would be collected from her home.  She 
contacted the collection  agent  and it changed  the location to her work. But no collection was 
made on that date because the collection agent  didnt arrive to collect the car as it didnt 
have the correct transport. And it didnt contact Miss M to tell her that the collection  wouldnt 
be happening.
The collection was then arranged  and took place nine days later. Miss M arranged  for the 
car to have an MOT test and she says that she had to make numerous  phone calls,  send  e-
mails, take time off work and arrange additional  childcare - all well as the stress and the 
upset of the whole experience. Lex Autolease has credited Miss Ms account for the 
additional rental charges that she incurred.
These events will have  caused Miss M distress and inconvenience  in addition  to the issues 
mentioned in the paragraph above. Lex Autolease has offered to pay £25 compensation to 
Miss M. That payment  hasnt been  made and I consider that a higher award of 
compensation is justified in these circumstances. I agree with the adjudicator that total 
compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience that Miss M has been caused would 
be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint. And I order  
Lex Autolease Limited to pay £75 to Miss M to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1901878