K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) undertook  three credit searches  
in her name  without  informing her  when  she applied for a credit card. She wants  these 
removed from her credit file as she says theyre affecting her ability to get credit.
background
Ms D contacted Tesco in November  2017  to apply for a credit  card.  Tesco confirmed she 
was eligible for a card and agreed  to complete an application. Initially  Ms D asked  if she 
could apply for the card using one address - but to have the card sent to a different address. 
The application was then made  using  Ms Ds permanent address  but further proof of 
address was required before the application could be fully considered. 
In December 2017 Ms D contacted Tesco to cancel her ongoing application and to complain 
about the way shed  been treated, particularly with regards to the credit searches. She said a 
total of three searches had been carried out without  her permission.
Unfortunately her complaint wasnt looked into for nearly two months  but when it did respond  
Tesco said that it had conducted the searches  in accordance with its terms and conditions  
and had made Ms D aware at the beginning of the call that searches would be undertaken.  It 
did however accept that it should have registered  Ms Ds complaint  earlier  and paid her £25 
compensation for the delay.
Ms D didnt accept the offer as, having  listened to the calls between herself and Tesco, she 
didnt believe Tesco said it would be carrying out credit checks at the different addresses. So 
unhappy with the outcome Ms D brought  her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She didnt recommend it should be 
upheld as she said that  while Tesco could have made  Ms D more  aware  of the implications 
of the credit  checks,  it wasnt  wrong  to conduct the searches.
Ms D disagreed. She said she gave the other address to use as a postal address, not for the 
application. She also reiterated  that she hadnt been made aware  that three credit searches 
had been done when  she was applying for the card over the phone.
As no resolution could  be found the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
And I can see that Ms D feels strongly  that Tesco acted  unfairly  during this process  and says 
this has caused  her subsequent problems with obtaining credit.  I have some sympathy for 
Ms Ds position here, but I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly and I think its done enough 
to compensate Ms D for the delay in looking into her complaint. I know  this isnt the outcome 
Ms D wanted so Ill explain my reasoning. 
Ive listened very carefully to the telephone  call Ms D had with Tesco when  she applied for a 
credit card. I know Ms D has said that Tesco didnt make her aware it would carry out credit  
searches but I dont  agree. When she asked  if she was eligible for a card the representative 
explained that Tesco didnt have a facility for a soft search but would  ask a few eligibility  
Ref: DRN18538332questionsfollowed by an application which would involve a full credit  search.  It also 
explained the need to use a home address. Ms D was happy to proceed on that basis  so I 
think she ought to have been aware  at that point that credit  searches would be carried out if 
she continued. And Im satisfied that Tesco did explain the situation  clearly so I dont think it 
made any errors there.
Ive gone on to consider the extract Ms D provided of her credit file and I can see that credit 
checks were carried  out for the two different addresses that were  discussed. Ms D says she 
only wanted to use one address and the other  was to be used as her postal address. 
Whereas Tesco says Ms D wanted  to change her application to the other  address which 
meant a second  application and a second  credit search  which it says it made Ms D aware 
of. Ive heard during the telephone  calls that after the first application Ms D didnt want  her 
temporary address  to be used for the application  and asked if it could be changed to her 
permanent address. Ms D was transferred  to the underwriting department who were  able to 
make the change and run another application  which was accepted but required further  
address and identity  verification. But from the calls Ive heard Im satisfied that Tesco did 
make Ms D aware  that a change of address  would  create a new application and require 
another credit search. So I dont think it acted incorrectly on that matter.
When Tesco  mentioned  that she had a financial commitment  registered at her temporary 
address Ms D became confused  understandably, as she was sure she hadnt registered 
any financial  commitment at that address and suggested it was her bank that had caused 
the problem. So I think Ms D wasnt then sure which  address would be best to use for her 
credit card application. I note she wanted the application cancelled as she was sure it would 
be declined  using her permanent address  despite  Tescos reassurance that it only needed 
some further  ID. But despite any confusion that was caused, Im satisfied that Tesco  carried 
out the applications as it was asked to do and  that it explained to Ms D that credit  searches 
would be carried out during both applications  and also what  the possible consequences of 
further credit  searches  might be. 
I know Ms D thinks that her application  should have been based on her permanent  address 
for credit search purposes and the temporary address should have been used as a postal 
address. But she had been  living at the temporary  address and she could have used the 
address to obtain credit so I think Tesco was right to search  at both addresses  when Ms D 
wanted to change her application. 
Ms D says that Tesco carried out three  credit searches on her during the application. But Im 
satisfied that while  there  were two credit checks the third entry on her credit file was for an 
administrative review. Tesco has explained that was a softer search which  other lenders 
couldnt have  seen and wouldnt therefore have impacted Ms Ds credit file. Ive looked in to 
that and  Im  satisfied that was the case so I dont think Tesco carried out three separate  
credit checks as Ms D suggested. 
Ms D says these checks have subsequently  caused her to be offered a mortgage at a higher 
rate than she expected. But I cant safely say thats the case. I havent seen any evidence  to 
support that claim and there are many factors to be considered when a lender makes  a 
mortgage offer to a potential borrower.  Ms D might want  to ask the other  lender  the reason 
for the rate she was given. I note that the address used  for the credit  check  by the mortgage  
lender was a different address to the ones used by Tesco and Ms D has accepted that she 
had problems obtaining credit previously. So I dont think its fair to suggest  that Tescos  
actions specifically caused her to be offered a less favourable mortgage rate. 
Ref: DRN18538333Tesco has accepted that it should  have dealt with Ms Ds complaint when she raised it. I 
think the delay  would  have caused Ms D some inconvenience. But Tesco has paid Ms D £25 
for that inconvenience  and I think thats  a fair amount to have paid in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint against  Tesco Personal Finance PLC, in as much as I think 
what Tesco  has already  paid is fair, and Im not asking it to pay any more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1853833