K820x#14Complaint
Ms A says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  for a store  card. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer,  have  taken responsibility  for 
the mis-sale complaint. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision,  rather  
than any other business.
Background
Ms A bought the policy  in 2001, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her card in case  she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms As representative disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Having done that, I have  not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms As store card application had a section for PPI, which was called account cover  at the 
time. It gave an overview of what it was for and what it cost. Then there was a place  Ms A 
could sign if she wanted the policy, which could be left blank if she didnt want it. It reiterated 
she should only sign there if she wanted  the cover. Ms A signed specifically for PPI, 
separately to signing  the agreement  as a whole to confirm her choices. The signature seems 
to be genuine,  and theres no evidence  it was forged as her representative now claims. So 
I think that FICL made  Ms A aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time.
Ms As representative says FICL  gave  her tailored advice  about buying PPI. That doesnt 
appear to be the case. But even if FICL had given Ms A advice, that would  just mean they 
had to check the policy was right for her  and from what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time,  I think it was. For example, it looks like Ms A was eligible for the cover and wasnt 
affected by any of its key exclusions or limitations. It covered her for longer than her work 
benefits or savings  wouldve lasted and it paid out on top of those. Ms A had other 
insurances, but they werent relevant here. I understand Ms As partner was willing to help 
out, but this card was her sole responsibility.  And there was always  the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed.  So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Ms A.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Ms A about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. That doesnt automatically  mean that it was mis-sold. The question,  then, is whether 
I think better information was likely to have  changed her mind.  Here, it looks  like Ms A chose 
to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted  this type of cover. As I explained above, it 
doesnt look like Ms A was affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover,  and it 
couldve been useful  for her in case something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Ms A could cancel the policy at any time without a penalty. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI was likely  to have put her off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN14273842Lastly, Ms As representative has said the level of commission and profit  share was unfair 
under the Consumer Credit Act. But as our adjudicator explained, the rules surrounding 
levels of commission and profit share only apply to lenders . And FICL wasnt the lender 
here, they were the insurer. So this isnt relevant to this case against FICL. Ms A may be 
able to complain  separately  to the lender about the level of commission and profit  share and 
then, if needed,  bring  that to our service  as a separate  case to this one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint about Financial 
Insurance Company Limited. This final decision marks the end of our services  involvement 
in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427384