K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Barclays Bank  UK PLC declined to switch the interest  rate on his 
residential mortgage.
background
In January 2017 Mr O applied for a residential  mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage is 
made up of two parts. One part is on a lifetime tracker rate Mr O ported over from a previous 
mortgage. As Mr O borrowed more money when he ported, the extra borrowing is on a two 
year tracker product,  expiring in January 2019.  Due to a change in circumstances Mr O 
needed to move out of the property  so he contacted Barclays to get advice as he wanted to 
rent out his property. It arranged an appointment in branch with a mortgage adviser.
In October  2017 Mr O completed a permission to let (PTL) application form - he said the 
tenancy agreement  was due to start in December  2017 for one or two years maximum and 
he indicated on his application that he intended  to move back  into the property at the end of 
2018. He says he signed the application  form but didnt receive a copy. He said he was 
aware that hed need to look for a new interest rate product at the end of the two years. Mr O 
says he asked the adviser whether,  if he was still renting the property, he would be able to 
still switch the interest rate and he says he was told yes. In November 2017 the PTL was 
agreed. 
In November 2018 Mr O made an application online to switch his interest rate but it was 
declined. Barclays told him that it was unable to do the switch because  of the PTL on his 
mortgage. Mr O has said the interest  rate will double in early  2019 and he cant afford the 
increase and his tenants are in the property until June 2019.  Mr O wants  Barclays to allow  
him to switch to the product he requested. 
Barclays has said its PTL terms and conditions  say that whilst the property is let, no 
changes to your mortgage (i.e. term, interest rate) will normally be permitted and Mr O 
signed that he agreed to these terms when applying for the PTL.  It says it was unable  to 
speak to the adviser who arranged the PTL as she no longer works for them,  however, as 
recognition that incorrect information may have  been given, they offered Mr O £100 as an 
apology. 
Our investigator thought that based on the evidence  shes seen that Mr O wasnt provided 
with incorrect or misleading  information.  She thought Barclays  made him aware no changes 
to his mortgage would be allowed, and that Mr Os intentions had been to move back to the 
property before his current rate ended. She felt that with no evidence that incorrect  
information was given the £100 offered by Barclays was more than fair.
Mr O didnt agree. He thinks the term that Barclays has relied on is unclear. He says it didnt 
tell him he couldnt  have  a new rate in the letter confirming the acceptance of the PTL 
although other conditions were  set out. So the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN15796022Its standard for the borrower to be required to live in a property subject to a residential 
mortgage  not let it out. By doing so, Mr O is in breach of the terms and conditions  of his 
mortgage. But Barclays, like many lenders, will allow residential borrowers permission to let 
the property for short periods to give the borrower time to sort out a problem due to a change  
in circumstances.  Effectively what its doing  is agreeing that Mr O can breach the terms of 
his mortgage without action being  taken against him. 
However, residential mortgages arent  designed  for rental properties. There  is more  risk 
associated with letting  a property and thats  why buy to let mortgages are more expensive  
than residential  mortgages.  So a PTL cant be indefinite and Barclays  would  expect the 
borrower to return to the property  or change the mortgage to a buy to let property.  
In this case Mr O has entered into a residential mortgage with a tracker rate product that is 
due to expire on 31 January 2019.  Mr O told us he was always  aware hed need to look for a 
new rate at the expiry of the product or the mortgage interest rate would move over to the 
standard variable  rate. 
However, due to Mr Os change of circumstances,  he decided to rent out the property.  
Barclays agreed to a PTL to help Mr O out. Its not under an obligation to do this.
One of the terms  and conditions on the application Mr O completed for the PTL says that 
whilst the property is let, no changes to your mortgage (i.e. term, interest rate) will normally 
be permitted. I think this is fair. A rented property is more risky for the lender, which  is why 
buy to let mortgages are generally more expensive. A new interest  rate on the expiry of an 
old one is never an entitlement and lenders are entitled to have eligibility criteria for new 
rates  including  that the borrower shouldnt be in breach of the mortgage terms when 
applying for a new rate.
Mr O told Barclays  that he intended  to rent the property for one or two years maximum but 
he also wrote at the end of the application form that he intended to move back into the 
property at the end of 2018. Barclays agreed the PTL on this basis. So If Mr O had kept to 
what he said and moved back  to the property the PTL could have been removed and Mr O 
couldve applied to switch  rates when  his product was coming to an end. But he didnt do this 
and so the PTL is still in force.
The terms and conditions  on the application form are clearly  laid out above where Mr O 
signed. It was Mr Os responsibility to read and understand  the application fully before 
signing it. Mr O has also said when he received the letter to confirm  the PTL,  the condition 
Barclays has relied upon for declining the switch,  wasnt outlined  to him. I agree this 
particular condition wasnt reiterated however, Im satisfied that Mr O shouldve  already been 
aware of the condition  when he signed the agreement. So I dont think  Barclays  has done  
anything wrong. 
I know Mr O believes  he was told something different at the face to face meeting and I can 
understand his frustration  that this cant be confirmed. But in any case  I think the agreement  
he signed was clear, and what he was told in the meeting  before  he signed it wouldnt 
override that. 
Ref: DRN15796023Mr O has said he thinks the term is unclear. In summary he says the term doesnt define the 
rate cant  be switched. He also thinks if it meant no change  then Barclays  have acted 
unfairly as technically  it has changed  the interest rate in the last two years. And if Barclays 
change the mortgage rate to the standard variable rate at the end of his current product then 
he thinks it shouldnt do it as the property will still be let.
The term in the PTL agreement is not an uncommon term used by lenders. Ive looked at the 
Barclays internal guidance  to see if Mr O meets the criteria to have an interest rate changed 
whilst a PTL is in force. From what Ive seen Mr O doesnt meet the requirement. This 
guidance is applied  equally  to all its customers and Mr O isnt being treated differently  from 
any other customer.
In my opinion the term is clear and I havent seen  evidence that Barclays have applied  a 
change in rate unfairly and outside of the conditions  of Mr Os residential mortgage 
agreement. Where the interest rate has changed while hes had the PTL, thats because his 
mortgage is operating  as it should.  He doesnt have a fixed rate, he has a tracker rate that 
shadows the Bank of England base rate. When the base rate changed, his interest rate 
tracked it. Thats not the same thing as taking  out a new interest rate product that operates 
in a different way or over a different period.
Therefore I dont consider Barclays is acting unfairly by declining  to switch  the interest rate 
while a PTL is on the mortgage. Its not Barclays fault that Mr O hasnt returned to the 
property as he said he would and Mr O was fully aware that the interest rate would change  
at the end of the products  life. I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more  and I will leave 
it to Mr O to contact Barclays  if he now wishes  to accept  the £100  that Barclays offered if it 
hasnt already been paid to Mr O.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 
24 February 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1579602