K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a secured loan. 
Ms K says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISION DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a secured
loan in 2000.  Ms K says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14956292Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Ms K case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of Ms Ks signed loan agreement. On it there is a section  related to PPI 
which had a printed  cross in the box opting for the policy. The sale took place in a meeting. 
And I think its likely that this selection came about as a result  of a conversation between  
Halifax and Ms K where PP was discussed. And as Ms K signed  the form I think its likely to 
reflect what she wanted.
Halifax has also given  us a copy of Ms Ks separate PPI application form. The application 
form goes  into some detail  about  PPI and Ms K has signed in the box to opt for the policy. If 
Ms K didnt  want  the PPI she couldve signed in the No box  which  has been left blank. So 
on balance I think Halifax made it clear that Ms K didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seem have had 
a need for the cover.
Ms K says she was diagnosed  with a medical condition in 2007  some  years after the policy 
was sold. She says she suffered with symptoms for many years  before this so thinks she 
wouldve been prevented  from making a claim. Ive looked closely at the terms and thought  
about what shes  told us. I still think Ms K wouldve  been able to make a disability claim on the 
policy.
From what I understand  Ms K didnt  visit her doctor about this condition until 2007 which is 
when she began taking  medication   so I dont think its reasonable to say she knew,  or ought 
to have known about, the condition  when the policy was sold in 2000.  I think  its more likely 
than not that she wouldve been able to make  a claim  for disability on the policy. It follows  that 
I dont think this was an unsuitable recommendation.
Its possible  the information Halifax  gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would  have  been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out 
the cover.  It follows that I dont think Ms K has lost out as a result of anything  Ms K did wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN1495629