K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background 
In my provisional decision of 11 December  2018  (a copy of which  Ive attached to this final 
decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B has told us he has nothing further  to add to my provisional decision. Barclays has 
accepted my findings and has offered to settle  Mr Bs complaint.
 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided  to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr B needs to get back  the extra  hes paid. 
So, Barclays  should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve  paid each month  without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
Since Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision of 11 December 2018, I uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17911722COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 11 DECEMBER 2018
complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr B took out a personal loan with Barclays in June 1998 and bought a PPI policy at the 
same time. He paid an extra amount for the policy, which was added  to his loan, and he paid 
interest on it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs complaint upheld  it. Barclays  disagrees and so Mr Bs 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. As Ive mentioned, I want to go into 
some detail about why, on the information  I have  so far, I intend to make  this decision. And I 
want Mr B and Barclays to have the chance to comment on what I say, and give me any 
more information  they may have, before I make my final decision on this complaint. Thats 
why this is a provisional  and not a final decision. 
The policy Barclays says Mr B bought gave him unemployment, accident  and sickness  
cover. But there was a restriction on the unemployment cover that I think  wouldve mattered 
to Mr B. Although the policy allows someone in a fixed term job to claim under the 
unemployment cover, it doesnt allow them to claim if their unemployment is because  a fixed  
term contract ends.
Barclays says it advised Mr B to buy the PPI. So it needed to take reasonable steps to find 
out about his circumstances  and needs  and make  sure it was right for him. From what  Ive 
seen so far, I think its likely Mr B was working in a fixed term job (Ill come back to this point 
shortly). As such, I think the circumstances in which he wouldve thought hed be most likely 
to want claim  for unemployment would  be the end of a fixed term contract. There  arent  any 
records now of what, if anything, was discussed  about PPI when Mr B took it out. But I cant  
see anything,  so far, to show me Barclays  advised  Mr B he wouldnt be able to claim in these 
circumstances and that the policy  might  not be right for him because of this.
Ive said I think its likely  Mr B was working  on a fixed term contract when  he bought the PPI. 
Ill explain  why. When Mr B first complained to us, he said hed been employed for two years 
five months at the time and gave us a description of his job. When our adjudicator started  
looking at Mr Bs bank statements (which Barclays had sent us), she felt she needed to 
understand more  about Mr Bs employment  status.  
Mr B subsequently confirmed in writing and over the phone that he was in what he calls 
fixed term employment.  He said his contract  at the time was a two year contract. He said 
hed been in it about 14 months when he bought the cover.  Information  Barclays  has given 
Ref: DRN17911723us suggests that isnt quite right. Its records say Mr B had told them hed been employed full 
time since June1997,  so hed have been  working in his role for about  a year.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. And Ive noted that some of the dates Mr B has given 
us for his work are inconsistent. I dont think this is surprising given how long ago this was 
and the frequency with which his jobs were  apparently changing around this time. I also 
dont think Mr B has been inconsistent in how hes described his work.  And while it would be 
helpful if Mr B had some paperwork  to support  what he says, I dont think its surprising  he 
hasnt, after so many  years
And Ive looked  closely at Mr Bs bank statements over a period of more  than two years.  The 
pattern of wage payments these show are, I think, consistent with Mr B working on fixed  
term contracts. They show weekly payments being credited to his account over a number of 
months in 1998  from the firm he says he was working for. Theres then a gap of about  six 
months when no weekly  payments  were credited to Mr Bs account.  There  are then weekly 
credits from several seemingly different firms over a period  of a few months in 1999. 
So, based  on the information  Ive got at the moment,  I think  its more likely than not Mr B 
was, as he says, in fixed term employment at the time he bought  the PPI
Barclays says that, being  in a fixed term job, Mr B was eligible for the PPI if hed worked 
continuously for the same employer for 24 months.  From what  Ive seen, I dont think Mr B 
had been with the same employer for 24 months (and Im also not sure where in the policy  it 
refers to 24 months). But, in any case, the question here isnt whether Mr B was eligible for 
the PPI  I think he was. Its whether Barclays gave him the right advice  about  how the 
restriction on unemployment cover  could affect him. And, from what  Ive seen  so far and for 
the reasons Ive given above,  I dont  think it did. 
Barclays also says Mr B made a successful  claim on the policy in 1999.  Initially,  it told us this 
was a claim for sickness but more recently its said its not clear  from its records  what the 
claim was for. But the fact Mr B benefitted  from the policy doesnt mean it wasnt  mis-sold  
when he bought it. From what  Ive seen so far, I think  it was and so Barclays  should put 
things right for Mr B. But to put him back in the position hed have been in if he hadnt got the 
policy, its fair if the amount of the claim Barclays paid him is taken off the compensation 
payable to him.
putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr B needs to get back  the extra  hes paid. 
So, Barclays  should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve  paid each month  without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
Since Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
Ref: DRN17911724 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend  to uphold Mr Bs complaint and to direct  Barclays  Bank 
PLC to put things right as Ive set out above.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1791172