K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to provide her with online access  to all 
her investments, resulting in serious  financial problems.
background
Barclays rejected her complaint. It said Mrs S had never logged into her online account, 
which required both of her profiles to be merged and a password generated. It also said that 
she could trade or conduct any other  business over the phone  so she had not lost out due to 
having no online access.
It did admit  it could  have handled  things better and promised to facilitate her online access 
by allocating her a membership number and password and offered her £200 for the 
inconvenience caused. This proved problematic, for various reasons, and was not quickly  or 
easily resolved. It emerged that there  was an underlying disagreement about how many  
accounts Mrs S held, and how much, if any, was in them. This was not resolved.
An investigator at this service felt Barclays had behaved fairly  and reasonably and noted that 
Mrs Ss representative had referred to some accounts which Mrs S already  had access to 
and one which was dormant due to the remaining funds being  withdrawn years earlier.
Mr S, on Mrs Ss behalf,   did not agree, saying:
Barclays need to resolve the online access problem so that Mrs S can access all her 
accounts and sort out her tax issues;  if it does this, then Mrs S other complaint 
points will fall away
It has still not provided any information  about  at least one of Mrs Ss accounts
There was then an extensive further  exchange of correspondence, largely  around  how many  
accounts Mrs S had, why Barclays couldnt find any information about  them  and whether this 
was due to online access failings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. Having read this file, and 
the related cases, I am satisfied she fully addressed all the issues  raised  by Mr and Mrs S 
and I agree with her conclusions.
In my view there is no persuasive evidence  of missing accounts or that Barclays  has failed to 
act appropriately  in dealing with these  issues. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Ref: DRN19835522Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1983552