K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Paynes Garages Limited  made  administrative errors when setting up a 
hire purchase agreement.  
background
In 2017, Mr P approached Paynes about acquiring a van. The cash  price  of the van was 
£36,591. Mr P part exchanged  a previous vehicle for £6,500  and the remainder was financed  
by a hire purchase  agreement. Paynes acted as a credit broker  to arrange the finance 
agreement with a lender,  who I will refer to as F. The hire purchase  agreement was for 48 
months with a total amount repayable  of around  £40,000, the monthly repayments were 
around £700. 
Mr P asked for the paperwork to be sent to him as he lived far away from the dealership.  
Paynes emailed the documentation to him to complete. Mr P told Paynes that the wrong 
vehicle registration  had been  recorded  on the hire purchase agreement  and asked for it to 
be amended. Paynes  sent him a new agreement with the updated  details which Mr P signed. 
Mr P says he noticed on the day of collecting the van that the agreement was in the name  of 
his business, but he says Paynes told him it couldnt  be changed. He says after he 
complained a few days later, Paynes sent him a new agreement  to sign,  this time in his 
personal name. He says this was only done because  Fs zone manager  got involved.  Mr P 
returned the third agreement and had written signed under duress on it. Paynes advised  F 
wouldnt accept it with this wording so asked him to complete  a new copy of the agreement, 
which he did. 
Mr P complained to Paynes because he says he was unhappy with the number of 
administrative errors it made. In summary  he says these were:
He had to sign four different finance agreements because  Paynes kept making  
mistakes with the paperwork.  Because the agreement was initially  put in the name of 
his business it meant  the DVLA was showing as the van having had a previous 
owner (his business) despite  him being  the only registered owner. He says this will 
cause him a loss when  he comes to sell the van; 
Paynes hadnt  explained any of the finance agreements to him and they were 
required to do so. These explanations needed to happen face to face but the finance  
documents were  sent to him by email with no explanations;
No assessment on his ability to afford  the repayments under the finance agreement 
was carried out by Paynes; and
He wasnt offered any income protection insurance policies, such as payment 
protection insurance. He later had cause  to claim under  a policy  like that so Paynes 
failure to offer him a policy  has caused  him a loss.
In response to the complaint, Paynes didnt  think it had done anything  wrong. It said Mr P 
didnt want to attend the dealership in person  until he was due to pick up the van so all the 
finance documents were emailed to him. It said Mr P was given the opportunity  to read 
through the finance agreements. It said only three  sets of finance agreements were  sent to 
him  not four. It said the first agreement had to be amended because Mr P wasnt  happy  
with the registration number given  to the van. 
Ref: DRN18321292Paynes said that it didnt  think  it had made  a mistake with the paperwork as it had only 
carried out amendments  in line with Mr Ps instructions. It said in order  to assist Mr P, it had 
written to the DVLA to ask for Mr Ps business to be removed from the list of previous 
registered keepers.   
I sent Mr P and Paynes my provisional  decision on 13 August 2020. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Adequate explanations  of the finance  agreements
Mr P says Paynes failed  to adequately explain the finance agreements to him and it 
breached its requirements  to do this in a face to face environment. CONC 4.2 sets 
out the pre-contract disclosure requirements  for credit brokers. The rules  dont  set 
out that information and explanations  have  to be given face to face.  Instead,  the rules  
say, apart  from certain limited circumstances (none of which apply in Mr Ps case  as 
they relate to different  types of finance and situations where some information  is 
given orally)  credit  brokers can choose  to give explanations in writing, orally,  in 
person or a mixture of all three. Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this case, 
Paynes werent  required to explain the finance agreements  to Mr P in person as it 
has given all the relevant information  to him in a durable medium,  which  CONC says 
is acceptable. 
In any event, Mr P has told us that he didnt want to have a face to face meeting with 
Paynes prior to picking up the van because of the distance he would  have to travel.  
So, it was Mr Ps choice not to receive  information  about the agreements in person.  
For all these reasons I dont think Paynes acted unfairly in not discussing the finance 
agreements in person  with Mr P. 
The rules  under CONC do however require Paynes to provide an explanation of the 
key features of the finance agreement  either  orally or in a durable medium. Its not 
clear whether an oral conversation took place, although Mr P says it didnt. But 
Paynes has provided  us with the documentation  it sent to Mr P by email which cover 
the necessary  information about  the agreements. The email  also asks Mr P to call 
Paynes if he has any questions about  any of the documentation.  
Included was the copy of the finance  agreement, the pre-contract credit information 
which listed the key features  of the finance  and an explanatory leaflet.  The leaflet 
explained some  of the key features, what Mr Ps rights were  under the agreement  
and in what circumstances  the finance  agreement might not be suitable for him. So 
overall I think Paynes  did meet its requirements  under CONC to provide adequate 
information and explanations about  the finance  agreements to Mr P. 
This information and the agreements were emailed  to Mr P. This meant he had time 
to read them  in private and in the comfort of his own home, which was outside of a 
traditional sales environment. Mr P also could have asked questions  about the 
agreement before signing them if he didnt understand  what he was agreeing  to. 
It appears he did scrutinise the agreements in some detail as he spotted that the 
registration number  for the van wasnt what he had requested. This information was 
available on the same page  which contained  the key financial information about the 
cost of the agreement, as well as whether it was in his personal name or his business 
name. Further, Mr P did spot at a later date that the agreement was in the name  of 
Ref: DRN18321293his business instead of his personal name. He did this without any intervention from 
Paynes. So I think he ought to have been  able to notice  this before signing the 
agreement too. 
Further, Mr P hasnt  said what  the impact of not having the agreements  explained to 
him was, other than he considers  the issue about  his business name being present 
on the agreement  would  have been  spotted earlier. But Im not persuaded thats  the 
case. Any explanation Paynes might have given to him in person or orally was 
unlikely to involve  reading through the agreement for him. Instead  it would likely have 
been limited to explaining  the pre-contract information and key features  which  he 
had already received in writing. This wouldnt necessarily have involved discussing 
who was taking out the agreement. 
Even if Im wrong about Paynes meeting the requirements under CONC, Im not 
persuaded (for the reasons given  above)  that Mr P was disadvantaged  in any way by 
not having a face to face discussion  about  the agreement  with Paynes. For that 
reason, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to make  any direction or award 
against Paynes  in relation  to this issue.  
Assessing affordability
As Paynes werent the lender under the finance agreement, the requirements it 
needed to meet were significantly different to what the lender was required to do in 
relation to assessing affordability. In assessing whether the agreement was suitable  
and affordable, Paynes needed  to be mindful of Mr Ps needs and circumstances. 
And if it knew  or ought to have known that the finance  agreement was unlikely to be 
affordable or suitable, it shouldnt have brokered  it to him. 
It appears Mr P has only fallen into difficulty repaying as a result of a significant 
change to his personal circumstances many  months  after the borrowing was taken 
out and unconnected  with the borrowing. This appears to have been caused  by 
something Paynes  could  not have predicted and was not apparent at the time. 
Taking this into account and the wider evidence  and circumstances of this case,  Ive 
not seen anything to make  me think Paynes acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
assessing the affordability or suitability of the finance. 
Not offering insurance policies
Mr P says Paynes ought to have tried to sell him some form of income protection  
insurance, such as PPI (payment protection insurance). He says its failure to do this 
means it wasnt acting in the best interests  of the customer. 
I realise with the benefit of hindsight Mr P may have  benefitted from taking out some 
form of insurance to cover his monthly  repayments  or his regular income. But Paynes 
werent obliged  to sell him insurance policies. If Mr P felt he needed  additional 
protection at the time he entered  into the agreement, he could have sought to get 
insurance from elsewhere. I dont think Paynes acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards him by not offering to sell him insurance. 
Mistakes with finance agreements
Ref: DRN18321294Mr P says his business appeared on the initial finance agreements due solely to a 
mistake by Paynes.  He says he mentioned his business only in passing but it was 
added to the finance agreement without his consent.  Paynes disagrees and says 
Mr P told them he would  be using  the van for his business. I cant be sure exactly  
what was discussed  or who suggested  Mr Ps business should be put on the finance  
agreement. But in any event, I think by writing  to the DVLA requesting  the number of 
registered keepers  be amended, Paynes has acted fairly as the mistake, however it 
arose, has been corrected.  
I say this because  I think  Mr P had several opportunities to mitigate any loss he says 
he incurred due to the mistake  on the finance agreement. He had time to read and 
scrutinise the finance agreement in advance, in private and at home. The fact it was 
made out in the name of his business  was clear on the first page  not far from the 
information he previously  highlighted  as being wrong (the registration  of the van).  So, 
I think Mr P ought to have  been able to see his business name was listed  on the 
agreement too. 
Mr P has said that his name also featured on the finance agreement  so it wouldnt 
necessarily have occurred  to him this meant  the agreement was taken out for the 
business. But if Mr P only mentioned his business  in passing and didnt consent to 
Paynes using his business details at all, I would have expected him to have 
questioned its inclusion  on the finance  agreement.  
Further, when collecting the van Mr P signed a one page form intended for the DVLA 
for recording who the registered keeper of the van was. It was prominent and clear  
the registered keeper that would  be recorded  with the DVLA  would be Mr Ps 
business. As Mr P signed this document separately  and its sole purpose was to 
confirm who the registered keeper would be, I dont think it would be fair to say 
Paynes were  solely to blame for the finance agreement  being incepted in Mr Ps 
business name. 
Mr P ought  to have  realised much sooner if he felt the information on the agreement 
was incorrect. It was after all his responsibility  to ensure he had read and understood 
what it was he was agreeing to. 
Mr P says that Fs zone manager had to get involved to sort out the issues with the 
finance agreement  and that proves Paynes made  the original  mistake. But I dont 
agree. Mr P was at the time in possession of the van and rescinding the previous 
agreement and constructing a new one could only be done  by F  not Paynes. So 
regardless of where the error originated from, F would have needed to be closely  
involved in the process  to set up the new agreement. 
Lastly, Mr P says he was provided with an internal copy of the order  invoice between 
Paynes and F. This copy of the invoice shows the customer as Mr Ps business.  But 
the order form Mr P received originally shows Mr P as the customer. He says this 
demonstrates Paynes  made changes to the invoice and agreement at a later date 
without his consent. But Im not persuaded it does demonstrate that. 
This is because the invoice date is after Mr P returned the signed  finance agreement 
in the name  of his business. The invoice is addressed to F, so it seems  likely it 
needed to match what was on the signed finance  agreement. Therefore I dont think 
Ref: DRN18321295this means it shows Paynes made  any mistake, it was simply sending to F the details 
of the customer as already listed on the finance agreement, and approved  by Mr P. 
I accept it is still possible  that Paynes did make a mistake.  But in any event it has 
written to the DVLA asking it to correct the number  of registered keepers. I think  this 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And even if it had caused the initial  
error, I think  this is enough to put things right.
Paynes accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr P didnt accept 
and in summary he said:
The zone  manager didnt work  for F, he was employed by the vehicle manufacturer.  
They are only required to get involved when serious mistakes  are made. This shows  
Paynes were at fault. 
Paynes never offered  him a meeting, all the documents were emailed to him and no 
explanations were provided.  
If Paynes  didnt have  an oral conversation  with him, how did it meet  its obligations 
under CONC?
He didnt know having the business name  on the agreement was going to be an 
issue until Paynes pointed it out to him on the day of collecting the van. Paynes  
therefore didnt  show a duty of care. 
Paynes were aware that he only worked  for six months  of the year and they should 
have passed this information onto F. 
The DVLA has refused to amend the registered keeper details because Paynes  had 
requested it too late.
Mr P also provided a letter from his partner  who was present during the sales process. She 
said it was Paynes that pointed out that the agreement was in the name of Mr Ps business 
but said it couldnt be changed. She said Mr P wanted to back out of the sale and take back  
his old car but Paynes wouldnt allow it. She said no financial issues were discussed with 
Mr P during  the sales  process or afterwards.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
address the additional points Mr P has raised.  
Mr P says the zone  manager didnt work for F. But from everything Ive seen, he did or at the 
very least was working on behalf  of F. In any event, I dont think it matters who the zone 
manager was employed by. This is because who he was employed by doesnt help in 
determining whether Paynes made  errors during the sales process. The zone manager was 
required to get involved in arranging new finance documents, as I mentioned  in my 
provisional decision, that doesnt mean Paynes  made a mistake  with the documents. 
Instead, it just shows  the zone  manager was required to be involved in order  to reissue  a 
new agreement.  
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Paynes werent required under CONC in these 
circumstances to give Mr P an oral explanation of the agreement.  It provided  this information 
to him in a durable medium and Mr P has confirmed  this by saying he received the 
documents Paynes sent. Im therefore  satisfied  Paynes met its requirements  under CONC. 
Ref: DRN18321296I can see Paynes offered  Mr P the opportunity  to call them  to discuss anything  he was 
unsure of. Further, I havent seen that Mr P suffered any loss anyway  as a result  of how the 
agreements were (or werent)  explained to him. 
I accept its possible Paynes were at fault for initially putting Mr Ps business on the finance 
agreement. But how this error  occurred,  and which party caused the error is far from clear.  
Given all the circumstances and evidence available, Im not sufficiently  persuaded that 
Paynes did make a mistake with how the agreement was set up. 
I say this because  Mr P had previously  reviewed the agreement  in detail at home without 
raising any concern.  The agreement  listed his business at the top of the first page, and he 
told this service he hadnt authorised Paynes to use his business name in any way. This 
leads me to conclude  that Mr P ought  to have reasonably questioned  the inclusion of his 
business name on the agreement much sooner, and its likely he would have spotted  this 
straight away as its listed on the top of the first page. Lastly, Mr P signed a separate form 
indicating the registered keeper of the vehicle would be his business.  
Mr P says Paynes ought to have told F he only worked for six months each year.  He says he 
told Paynes this before entering  into the agreement. But Mr Ps partner has said no financial 
information was discussed at all. As this appears  to contradict what  Mr P says,  Im unable  to 
place much weight  on what either  he or his partner have said about what  financial 
discussions were had with Paynes. In any event, it was ultimately Fs decision,  not Paynes, 
as to whether  to approve Mr Ps application for finance. 
Lastly, Mr P says the DVLA refused to amend the registered keeper details after Paynes 
asked it to. Paynes  has also agreed  that the DVLA hasnt removed Mr Ps business from the 
list of registered  keepers.  However, Paynes dont have any control  over the actions  of the 
DVLA. I can understand why this will be disappointing  for Mr P, but this doesnt change the 
outcome I reached in my provisional  decision. This is because  I havent seen anything to 
persuade me the initial DVLA registration was caused by a mistake  made  by Paynes. If 
I dont think Paynes has made any error,  it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to make any 
direction or award against Paynes.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr P signed  a separate  document at the point he 
collected the van. It was clear and prominent  on the document  that Mr P would be signing to 
agree for his business to be recorded as the registered keeper  with the DVLA.  Mr P has also 
said in response  to my provisional decision that Paynes  pointed  out to him prior to him 
signing the documents that it was in the name of his business. If Mr P didnt wish for this to 
happen, he shouldnt  have signed the documents. 
I note Mr P says he felt he was left with no choice but to sign the documents.  However,  
taking everything into account, I havent been  able to place as much weight on what Mr P 
has told us. This is because he has at times been inconsistent with what he says happened 
or what was (or wasnt discussed). Hes told us Paynes didnt discuss  the finance documents 
with him at all and told him just to sign them, but as Ive mentioned above, hes also said 
they did highlight  to him the finance was in the name  of his business. Further,  hes said I did 
not know that having the business  name in place  was going to be an issue  until it was 
pointed out to me on collection  day so it seems Mr P accepts Paynes did explain the 
implications of what hed be signing. 
For all the reasons given  above, Im not persuaded that the actions of Paynes have caused  
any loss to Mr P and therefore I make no direction or award. 
Ref: DRN18321297my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832129