K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms Q says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was likely  to be no more than £1.00  per £100 Ms Q owed on her store card.  
The policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month if Ms Q 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also 
provided life cover as well as price  and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms Q disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Qs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Qs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms Q that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ms Q says she was unaware  she had the policy  and 
she believes  it was added  to her account  without  her knowledge or consent.
FICL says Ms Q took out the PPI over the phone. Due to the time that has passed since  the 
sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising.  
So I cant say for certain what was said to Ms Q during that phone call. But from what  we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL would 
have asked Ms Q for her agreement to add the policy to her account. 
Ms Q had already had the card for over a year before the PPI was added. So when the 
charge for the PPI would  have started  to show on her monthly statements, if she didnt know 
what this amount was for and hadnt  agreed to taking out the cover,  I think she would have 
raised this sooner than she did. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Ms Q chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Ms Q and, as I havent seen anything to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely to be right. So it didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make  sure it gave Ms Q clear enough 
information about the policy to enable her to decide  for herself  if she should take the policy.
Ref: DRN14506882Its possible  the information FICL gave Ms Q about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Ms Q 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the 
cover, such  as having unusual working arrangements or a medical condition of which she 
was already aware.
Ms Q has told us she would receive  sick pay for at least three months  if she was unable  to 
work due to accident or sickness. But this policy could have paid out 15% of the monthly 
balance on the account for as long as she was off sick or until the balance  was paid, which 
would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she would  receive. And 
it would  also provide the same benefit if Ms Q was to lose her job. As Ms Q has told us she 
didnt have any other means  with which to make her repayments if she wasnt  earning, I 
think this policy could  have provided  her with a useful benefit.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Ms Q has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1450688