K821x#15complaint
Mr R complained about advice given by Insight Financial Associates Limited (Insight)  to
transfer his personal  pension  plan to a self invested personal pension  (SIPP) with a new
provider. The fund was then invested an overseas property development.
background
Mr R is complaining about advice given in 2009. At the time he was 58, employed and 
married. He had a personal pension plan with a major  provider. His son was working for a 
company which  was a selling  agent  for an overseas  property developer. Mr Rs son, or a 
colleague of his, put Mr R in touch  with Insight to look into the possibility  of using his pension 
fund to buy a hotel room in a resort complex in Cape Verde.
Insight requested information from the provider of Mr Rs pension  plan. It wrote to Insight on
9 July 2009 with details  of the plan (a section 226 retirement annuity contract). Mr R had
taken it out in 1981 and it had been  made paid up from 1 August 1992. It was written  to age
65 to provide an annuity. The benefits  were made up of separate elements, some of which
were guaranteed, such as the basic annuity and annual bonuses. These were set out in the 
information provided to Insight, with the available transfer value, as:
Basic amount of Annuity  (relative  to 1 August 2015): £1,610.03
Reversionary Bonus  to date (relative to 1 August 2015): £2,512.17
Transfer value of £39,077.88
Mr R met with Insights adviser on 10 August 2009. Ive referred below to what  Mr R says
about that meeting. Insights suitability report was dated 24 August 2009. Amongst other
things it said:
Mr R had decided to purchase a Cape Verde  property  and following  discussions  with
his agent (his son) hed decided to fund that via a SIPP. Insights advice  had been
requested only to find the most suitable SIPP provider  to purchase the property.
Insight hadnt  given any advice about  a SIPP being the most suitable vehicle to
facilitate that.
Mr R had recently completed a financial review  with his adviser (his son) whod
decided that a SIPP was suitable  for Mr Rs needs and circumstances. Insight  had
only been given  limited information  about  Mr Rs finances.
The report said, more than once,  that no advice had been given about the purchase
of the property.
Insight would be paid a fee (£500)  by the product  provider. And €1,999 by the
developers. A £250 annual adviser fee was also mentioned  at the end of the report
(although I dont think Insight provided any ongoing  advice and didnt take that fee). 
Mr R had completed an attitude  to risk questionnaire with his existing  adviser. It had
been agreed his attitude to risk was high.
Details of his existing  pension plan were set out. Insight recommended  the pension  
was transferred because Mr R wanted to use his pension fund to purchase the 
property and his existing pension didnt offer that facility.
Hed discussed the options for purchasing the property with his (other) adviser
whod advise Mr R as to the further  costs in finalising  the Cape Verde purchase.
The high risk nature of investing in a Cape Verde  property was mentioned  several
times. Appendix I of the report  set out a number  of risk warnings.
Ref: DRN12565752our investigation
The complaint was upheld by our adjudicator. He said advising Mr R to transfer  to the SIPP 
to invest in an overseas  property wasnt  suitable.  Insight had said Mr R had already decided  
to invest on advice from his son. But his son wasnt a regulated  adviser. Insight had to 
assess the suitability,  not just of the transfer to the SIPP, but also the proposed  underlying 
investment. The adjudicator referred to the alert issued by the then regulator  in January 
2013. It posted dated the advice. But it didnt impose  new regulatory duties. It confirmed the 
existing position.  
Insight had classified  Mr R as having a high attitude  to risk. Insight hadnt  conducted its own 
risk profiling exercise but had relied  on what  Mr Rs son had told it. The adjudicator  didnt 
think there was any justification  for recommending that Mr R, particularly  bearing  in mind his 
age and proximity to retirement, move from a low risk pension plan with guarantees to a high 
risk and illiquid investment in an offshore property.
The adjudicator added  that the charges were relatively high given the amount transferred 
(£39,077). Further,  as the property cost £99,950  and the funds transferred were only about 
half of that, it wasnt clear how Mr R was to fund the difference. Hed ended up only owning a 
percentage of the property. 
Mr R didnt agree with the redress the adjudicator had suggested. And Insight didnt accept 
the adjudicators  view so the complaint was referred to me. I asked for some  more 
information, in particular about the part played  by Mr Rs son. We also asked Mr R if hed 
received any incentive  payment for investing.  
Mr R said he didnt get any payment. He supplied copies  of his bank statements with notes 
to explain some of the transactions  (such  as the loan mentioned  below). He also provided a 
statement dealing with the other  points  wed raised.  In summary:
His son was employed by the company  selling  the properties. He didnt know  exactly 
what his son did or if hed received any commission or other payment. His son wasnt  
qualified and hadnt worked  as a financial adviser. Mr R wouldnt have taken advice 
from his son. He queried why hed have met with Insights  adviser if his son was 
advising him.
Hed been told by one his sons colleagues  about a new pension  scheme that might
be worth  looking into. Hed then got a call about  allowing Insight  to get details  of his
existing pension. He signed letters of authority and he telephoned  his existing 
provider to confirm  Insight was acting for him.
He understood  hed be getting advice from Insight as to whether the new plan would
be better than his existing  pension. He hadnt  already  decided  to invest; he hadnt 
paid a deposit; and he hadnt signed  any documents agreeing to buy a hotel room.
He met Insights adviser at a hotel. Others were  there too. The adviser  spoke to them
as a group  about how the new pension scheme worked  a SIPP and investing in a
hotel room in Cape Verde  before talking to them individually. One person had
already had his appointment  and seemed  very pleased with the idea.
When Mr R had his meeting, the adviser had all the details of Mr Rs existing  pension
and told him it wasnt very good  and had been  losing  money. Mr R recalls him saying
"This new pension will be much  better  for you. When you get to 65 years and retire,
you will get at least £100 per month more than [the existing provider] will give you".
Mr R thought it sounded like a great opportunity  for him. Hed own a real asset which
would increase in value  as well as pay him rent each month.
Ref: DRN12565753He described the adviser as professional and well spoken, convincing  and apparently
trustworthy. The adviser said he was the expert, not just about pensions  and
investments, but he was a property investment specialist too. He emphasised his
advice was independent. He said he was making  similar arrangements for others.
Mr R was impressed by his face to face advice. The advisers enthusiasm, the
general feel good atmosphere and the fact that others had agreed to invest,
encouraged Mr R and gave him confidence.  It was only at the meeting  that he
decided to go ahead.
Mr R trusted  the adviser. Hed advised  Mr R to move his pension  to the new
arrangement and invest in Cape Verde.  If hed advised against  Mr R would have left
his pension where it was. And, if hed told Mr R he could have got an immediate
pension of over £4,000  each year, Mr R would  have taken that there and then. Hed
been unable  to borrow money  from the bank and having that pension, plus a possible
tax free cash sum,  could have made a difference.
The adviser said all Mr R needed  to do was to sign a few forms. Mr R signed the
paperwork he was given.  He didnt complete any of it with his son  it was all done at
the meeting with the adviser.  Some of the documents had been pre completed with
just his signature required. Others  had been left blank so he just signed  them.
He didnt recognise the reservation  form hed apparently signed on 8 July 2009 (the
same date as hed signed the letters of authority). He agreed the signature looked
like his. But he said hed have queried anything about a deposit as he had no money
to pay one. Hed borrowed  money from a relative to adapt his house for his wife who
was unwell. He provided evidence of the loan and copies of his bank statements.
Mr Rs representative also made a number of points.  Amongst other things it said Insights 
file wasnt complete and there were inconsistencies  in the documentation. Mr R should have 
been told his existing pension was a very valuable section 226 plan from which he could  
have taken immediate  benefits. The recommendation cant  be justified. The guaranteed 
annuity would have cost three times  the transfer value to replace. Even if Insights advice 
could have been limited to the SIPP (which it couldnt)  Mr R shouldnt have been  advised to 
give up a guaranteed income for life for an uncertain income dependent  on the investment 
performance of a relatively  low transfer  value. 
Insight had said Mr Rs son was involved. But Mr R met and discussed  the transfer with
Insights adviser. Insight mistakenly believed it wouldnt  be responsible for the
underlying investment and could instead  limit its advice to the most appropriate SIPP.  Mr R 
had no relevant property or financial experience. Hed only decided  to purchase the property 
at the meeting with Insights adviser.
We shared the further information with Insight. It maintained what  it had said earlier  about
the involvement of Mr Rs son. It said what Mr Rs representative had said about 
inconsistencies in the dates of some of the documents was wrong. And it wasnt unusual  for 
a fact find to be part typed and part handwritten  some of the information  wouldnt be 
available until the meeting  and would be added then. It didnt agree with what  had been said 
about the guaranteed  nature of the benefits Mr Rs existing plan provided. Insight didnt think  
Mr R would have signed blank forms. And he had time to cancel the transaction. Insight 
accepted Mr R didnt  receive any incentive  but his son would have got a payment.
my provisional decision dated  6 March 2020
I set out my findings  under  several headings as follows.  
Ref: DRN12565754was Insights advice suitable?
Insight says it isnt responsible for Mr Rs losses because it didnt recommend the property
investment. But its clear,  from the suitability report,  that Insight did recommend  that Mr R
transfer to the SIPP. The rationale was that he wanted (and had already decided) to make  a
particular investment. But, as the adjudicator explained, it wasnt  open to Insight just to
consider the transfer to the SIPP and find a suitable provider. The regulators alert makes it
clear that the suitability  of the overall  proposition, that is the wrapper  and the expected
underlying investment, must be considered.
The alert post dated  Insights  advice.  But it didnt follow any changes  to the regulations.  As
the alert itself says,  it was issued because it had come to the regulators attention  that some
financial advisers were giving advice on pension transfers or switches without assessing the
advantages and disadvantages  of the proposed investments in the new pension. The alert
goes on to explain why that approach was unacceptable and why suitable  advice generally
required consideration of the overall proposition.
Insight was aware Mr R had another adviser.  But Mr Rs son wasnt  a regulated financial
adviser. In any event, Insight couldnt  proceed on the basis it didnt  need  to consider the
proposed underlying investment as Mr R would  be getting advice about that elsewhere 
Insight couldnt  restrict its advice in the way it sought to do. I dont agree with what Insight
says about it being  up to Mr Rs other adviser to discuss  the risks of the proposed
investment and any other issues,  such as how Mr R proposed to fund any balance of the
purchase price. The investment was part and parcel  of the overall proposition  and Insight
should have considered its suitability,  including issues such as if Mr R would need to raise
more money from other sources.
Insight identified the proposed investment as high risk. Insight has said Mr Rs attitude  to risk
had been assessed (not by Insight) as high. I dont  think the assessment of Mr Rs attitude  to
risk as high was credible. I think Insight should have tested that and explored with him why
he apparently wanted  to take such a high degree  of risk with his only pension provision. And,
even if Mr R confirmed that he wanted to take a high degree of risk, Insight should have
recognised that he didnt  have the capacity for loss this sort of investment might produce.
Insight says it didnt  recommend  that Mr R gave up guarantees on his existing plan: details
of the plan were  highlighted  and discussed  with him but as he wanted to purchase the
property he was happy to proceed. I dont  think thats good enough. Insight knew that by
transferring Mr R would  be giving up his existing pension arrangement and the benefits  that
it would  provide. Without unlocking the money  held in that plan,  Mr R wouldnt have been in
a position to invest as he did.
The reason  for transferring to the SIPP was to allow the purchase of the Cape Verde
property. If that wasnt a suitable investment  for Mr R  and I dont think  it was  then the
purpose of the transfer falls away. I dont think a SIPP was suitable for Mr R in any event  
his fund value  was modest and likely  to be eroded  by charges.
Mr R had no other pension provision. He may have  been keen to try to improve  his
retirement benefits. But the section 226 annuity  would have provided a secure  base line
income in retirement.  Mr Rs representative has said the transfer value paid (£39,077.22)
represented poor value in return  for the benefits  being given up. I think  that was on the basis
Mr R could have got an immediate pension of over £4,000 pa in 2009 which,  as Ive
explained below,  I dont think was the case. But, that aside, I dont think  Mr R could afford to
Ref: DRN12565755take the sort of risk that investing in a hotel room in Cape Verde posed. Insights advice was
unsuitable. I think Mr R should have been  advised  to retain his existing pension plan.
if Insight had advised Mr R against transferring what would  he have done?
Ive thought about if Mr R would  have  gone ahead anyway and even if Insights adviser had
advised against. I dont immediately see why a consumer who had been referred to a 
specialist pension adviser would be inclined to disregard his or her advice. Mr R doesnt
strike me as someone whod be prepared to ignore professional advice. Rather  the reverse  
hes made it clear that he only decided  to invest after his meeting with adviser.
If Insight had advised against  and Mr R had said that he still wanted  to proceed,  Insight
would have needed to have treated him as an insistent client. Assuming Insight was
prepared to act on that basis that would have entailed a discussion with Mr R about  why he
was prepared to proceed despite  advice to the contrary and his reasons recorded.  I think
that would  have given Mr R pause  for thought about  whether  doing  what  he planned was
really a good idea.
All that said,  I recognise Mr Rs son was involved.  Sometimes the involvement and influence
of a third party such  as a relative or friend will be a powerful influence  and may mean  that a
consumer will be prepared to disregard professional advice.  Thats  why we asked Mr R
about his sons  involvement. Ive considered  very carefully what  Mr Rs said and Insights
comments.
Mr R has been very clear about what happened. Hes provided  his detailed recollections
about how he found out about the Cape  Verde property and what led up to his decision to
transfer and invest.  His son wasnt an authorised financial adviser  and Mr R has said he
wouldnt have taken  advice from him. Mr R say says he understood he was getting
specialist advice about his pension from Insight,  he trusted Insights adviser, was impressed
by him and only went ahead because Insights  adviser said he should. Mr Rs decision was
only made at the meeting with Insights  adviser.
I find what Mr R says persuasive. It strikes  me as his honest  recollection as to what
happened. The idea to invest in the hotel room  may have come  from Mr Rs son (or one of
his colleagues). I dont  know  if Mr Rs son stood to benefit financially if Mr R went  ahead. But
he was shown as the agent and Id assume got some form of commission.  I dont doubt Mr R
would have wanted to help his son and boost his sons earnings if possible. But Im not
persuaded Mr R had decided he definitely  wanted to go ahead until after hed met with
Insights adviser. Mr R has described the advisers  impact and influence. I think  the advisers
role was instrumental. Mr R was convinced, by someone he regarded  as an expert  and was
prepared to trust, that transferring to the SIPP and investing in the hotel room in Cape Verde
would generate more pension  income for him. That, coupled with the fact that others  had
been persuaded to invest, resulted in Mr Rs decision to proceed.
I dont think that this is the sort of situation where,  if Insight  had recommended against, Mr R
would have gone ahead anyway. Mr R has said, and I accept, that if Insights adviser had
recommended he retain his existing pension plan, hed have done that.
Nor, from what  Ive seen, was Mr R bound to go ahead  by the time he met with Insights
adviser. Insight has pointed to the reservation form which  Mr R appears to have  signed
(although he doesnt  now recall) on 8 July 2009.  But hes certain  he didnt pay any deposit
and didnt have  the money to pay one. Mr R has explained his financial position  and
Ref: DRN12565756provided evidence  in support. His bank statements dont reveal any payment which might
have been a deposit and they confirm what hes said about  not having  been able to pay one.
Hes also provided evidence to support  what hes said about  having borrowed money.
And, in any event, he was dependent on being  able to use the money in his pension fund.
He didnt have  any other means to pay for the hotel room (or share thereof). So, if he 
couldnt use his pension fund, he wouldnt have been able to proceed  anyway. At worst, hed
have lost any deposit hed paid. But, as Ive said, from what Ive seen, he didnt pay one.
I note some of the other points raised  by Mr Rs representative, such  as discrepancies  in the
dates of the documents. The suitability letter says it was prepared  on 24 August 2009 but it
wasnt signed by the adviser  (see page 20 of the letter) until 8 September 2009. What isnt
clear is when it was provided to Mr R. His representatives point is, if Mr R didnt it until after
the later date it was by then too late  the transfer  had taken  place. But regardless of any
arguments about whether Mr R had time to cancel, the suitability report  confirmed the advice
Mr R was given at the meeting on 10 August 2009.  Ive considered  that meeting and its
impact on Mr R above. I dont see there  was anything  in the suitability report  which would
have caused Mr R to reconsider. So I dont think anything turns  on the dates  and any
inconsistencies.
Mr Rs representative has also referred to a potential conflict of interest  it suggests
Insights adviser had contacts in TRG. I also note how Insight was remunerated   by the
SIPP provider and TRG.  But, given what Ive already said about Insights advice being
unsuitable, I havent explored  this issue further.
I went on to say how Mr R should be redressed. I said wed aim to put him the position hed 
be in now if Insight had given him suitable  advice. That would have been to retain his 
existing pension plan.  Redress should be based on the cost of buying the guaranteed 
annuity that Mr R gave up, with the annuity  payments Mr Rs missed  out on being made up 
too. There were some  uncertainties as to exactly  what Mr R would have done so Id made  
some assumptions. In summary I said:
.
I wasnt convinced Mr R would have taken  his benefits in 2009. The figures quoted  
were what  hed get at age 65 not if he took benefits immediately   which  would have 
been less. I was going to work  on the basis hed have waited until he was 65.
I wasnt sure how Mr R would have taken  his benefits, that is the basis  of the annuity,  
and if hed have  taken any tax free cash,  if available. I assumed the annuity indicated  
in 2009 was the maximum income  that could be paid  single life, no escalation, no 
guarantee period and no tax free cash. I thought Mr R would have selected an 
annuity on that basis anyway and whatever provided the most income. But I did think 
hed have wanted a tax free cash lump  sum.  So hed have opted for a reduced  
pension and an annuity paying  maximum income. Wed ask Mr Rs former  provider  if 
it could provide details of the tax free cash and annuity that would have been 
available at age 65. 
Mr R had suffered a past loss in terms of the annuity payments that hed have 
received since he turned 65 plus the tax free cash lump  sum. The net income 
amounts plus interest and the lump sum with interest should be paid to him.
As to future loss, Insight would need  to pay Mr R the current  capital cost of providing 
an equivalent annuity on the same  basis, less an allowance for the tax that hed have 
paid on the annuity  payments. I assumed Mr R was a basic rate tax payer. So a 20% 
deduction from the capital cost of the annuity could be made.  Mr R had some health 
issues which might  mean hed qualify for an enhanced annuity rate (which would be 
Ref: DRN12565757reflected in the cost of the annuity). If Insight wanted to take into account  Mr Rs 
health in costing the annuity it could ask him to complete  a medical questionnaire.
I set out what should happen regarding Mr Rs SIPP, the Cape Verde investment and 
any arrears of and future  SIPP fees. 
Insight should  also pay Mr R £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Both parties  commented  on my provisional decision.  Mr R agreed he would have taken the 
maximum tax free cash from his pension  fund. He provided details of his income and said he 
was currently a non taxpayer  and would be even with the annuity income so no deduction for 
income tax should  be made. And the capital cost of purchasing an annuity shouldnt take his 
current state of health into account  but should  reflect the purchase cost in 2015. His health 
has been worsened by the stress  caused  by the money worries  hes had as a result of the 
unsuitable advice  he received. The award  for distress and inconvenience should  be higher to 
reflect the effect on his health and wellbeing and that hes not had the use of the tax free 
cash and pension income.
Insights comments centred on the part played  by Mr Rs son - described by Insight as a 
prolific salesman who also sold properties  in Spain and Turkey - and his knowledge, 
experience and influence. Insight reiterated that Mr R had signed  a reservation form before 
Insights involvement  with the purchase  vehicle shown as a SIPP. Insight  maintained Mr R 
would have proceeded with the investment whether Insight was involved or not. Hed given 
detailed information  about his meeting with Insights  adviser. But not about what  his son had 
said. Insight also questioned why Mr R hadnt  complained when he reached  age 65 in 2015.
We shared Insights response with Mr Rs representative together  with some detailed
information wed received from the provider of the pension Mr R had given  up when he
transferred (which weve also shared with Insight).  The provider had told us that the fund 
value at 1 August 2015 would have been £77,979.51.  Based on the format of the pension  Id 
set out in my provisional decision this would have  provided Mr R with tax free cash of 
£19,494.88 and a single life annuity  of £3,693.00  pa. 
Mr Rs representative provided  statements from Mr R and his son. Mr Rs son said hed 
never been involved in selling property  in Turkey or Spain. Hed only worked as an 
introducer and didnt give any advice. Hed never worked as a financial adviser  and he 
hadnt received  hundreds of thousands in commission.
Mr R said he didnt recognise his son from the picture painted  by Insight - an internationally
mobile, highly  successful and experienced property salesman.  Mr R said hed been  very
clear all along about how hed come to meet Insights  adviser  and how he and others were 
impressed by him. It was an unusual  event for Mr R and he remembered it well. He queried  
why the adviser  would have gone to the trouble of travelling to where  Mr R lived to meet  him 
if hed already decided what to do  someone  could have just brought  the blank paperwork 
to him to sign and post back. 
Insight then provided some more  information about directorships held by Mr R in companies 
that his son was also a director of. We forwarded the details to Mr Rs representative  and 
asked for comments.  
Mr Rs representative explained that it was to do with a community  project, details of which 
were provided, along with the rationale for Mr Rs involvement. It post-dated Insights advice 
by several years. Mr Rs representative also said it had been discussed  with Insight earlier.
Ref: DRN12565758Insight said there was nothing on its files to show it had been mentioned  earlier. It said Mr R 
knew about property  development.  Hed gone  into the Cape Verde  investment  knowing what 
he was doing  with his sons support and aware of the risks. 
In response Mr Rs representative reiterated  that the directorships post-dated  the advice
given by Insight  by several years.  It didnt  think what Insight had said was relevant. It didnt
have a record of the discussion with Insight  about  Mr Rs involvement in the companies
engaged in connection with the project.
my further provisional decision dated 27 July 2020
As further  information  and evidence had come  to light since my provisional decision I issued 
a further provisional  decision. Ive summarised  my (further) provisional findings:
Insight had referred to the sales network that Mr Rs son worked  for receiving  over 
€3m in commissions. I didnt know where  that figure had come from. Or how much  
commission Mr Rs son may have received. Even if the network was successful that 
didnt mean he was too. 
His evidence wasnt particularly helpful. Hed given  a very brief statement with no 
details of his involvement in selling the Cape Verde properties  such as for how long 
he was an agent; the number of properties he sold; what  sort of commission  he 
earned; how senior his position  was; and how the sales process operated. 
I could, to some extent, understand why Insight  had contrasted that  and a lack of 
detail from Mr R himself about his sons involvement - with Mr Rs clear recollection  
of the presentation given by Insights  adviser and the meeting with him.
I accepted there would have been  some  discussions  between Mr R and his son. The 
suitability report recorded that Mr R had decided to purchase  a Cape Verde property 
and, following discussions with his agent, hed decided to fund that via a SIPP. It also 
said Mr R had recently completed a financial review with his adviser (his son) whod 
decided that a SIPP was suitable  for Mr Rs needs and circumstances. If any of that 
wasnt accurate Id have expected Mr R to have pointed that out at the time.  
Id recognised throughout Mr Rs sons involvement. Where  a close family member or 
friend is involved, we might say the consumer  would have  gone  ahead anyway, and 
despite any professional advice against.  Sometimes the influence of a relative or 
trusted friend will be paramount. But it will depend on the circumstances of the case.  
I didnt underplay Mr Rs sons role. The idea of investing in a property in Cape Verde 
came from him or a colleague. The investment and funding  it via Mr Rs pension was 
mentioned. Whether Mr Rs son was a successful salesman or someone  who just 
sold a small number  of properties,  Mr R trusted  him and saw the investment as 
something that would  benefit both of them. I assumed Mr Rs son got commission for 
the sale. And Mr R thought the investment would generate rental income and 
increase in value  so that it could be sold at a profit when  he came to retire and 
needed to access  his pension fund.
But Mr R had been very clear all along  that he didnt make  a firm decision to go 
ahead until he met with Insights adviser.  It seemed Mr R had signed the reservation 
form before Insights involvement. But hed said he hadnt paid any deposit  and hed 
provided evidence  to show he couldnt  have  afforded to do so. He could have pulled 
out if he later decided against  buying  the property. 
What Mr R had said about  the advisers impact and influence  was persuasive. The 
adviser had given Mr R the confidence  to proceed. I accepted that he hadnt  made  a 
final decision until he met with the adviser.
Ref: DRN12565759Insights adviser didnt advise him against transferring to make  the proposed 
investment. Mr R didnt go ahead despite advice  to the contrary. He agreed to the 
transfer and investment  after Insights adviser had endorsed  it. There  was no real 
reason for Mr R to think about things again. Hed had professional,  specialist 
pensions advice  that doing  what he and his son proposed was a good  idea. 
Insights advice was unsuitable. The transfer, which meant  that Mr R gave up 
valuable guaranteed benefits, was unsuitable, as was the investment. Insight should 
have advised  Mr R against transferring. I didnt agree Mr R would simply have  
disregarded Insights  advice and gone  ahead anyway. I maintained he placed 
significant weight  on what the adviser  had said. Mr R had said,  if the advice had been 
to leave his pension where it was, hed have done that. I accepted that. Mr Rs losses 
flowed directly from Insights unsuitable advice to transfer.
Insights advice had to be judged at the time. After  acquired knowledge or experience  
cant be taken into account  in judging the suitability of advice given several years 
earlier or in deciding whether Mr R would have gone ahead  anyway. From  what Id 
seen Mr R didnt have  any relevant knowledge  or experience  at the time. 
Full details of the later project had been  provided, including Mr Rs involvement and 
why he became, for a limited period, a company director of the companies 
mentioned. Even if Insight hadnt  earlier been made aware, full details had now been  
provided and Insight had been able to comment. 
I said my view remained as set out in my earlier provisional decision. I still thought Mr Rs 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr R accepted my provisional  decision.  Insight didnt. In summary:
It expressed disappointed that there  didnt appear to be a truthful recollection of 
events from Mr R and his son. Mr R had confirmed he was told by one of his sons 
colleagues about a new pension plan capable  of holding property as an investment. 
Mr Rs son and his colleagues worked for the network selling  the properties and 
would all have been fully aware  of how the property could be purchased. Mr Rs son 
would have had the same knowledge  as his colleagues. Hed have been  fully trained, 
including as to how a pension fund, usually  a SIPP, could be used  to purchase the 
property. He worked alongside the founder and master agent which would have 
given him all the necessary knowledge to explain how a SIPP could be used for the 
purchase of the property. Examples of brochures  given to the sales  agents  were  
provided. They pointed out that SIPPs could be used to purchase the properties so 
all agents were  fully aware. 
The only problem was that a regulated individual had to advise on a pension switch 
to a SIPP. Mr Rs son didnt meet that requirement. Once the decision to use a SIPP  
to fund the purchase had been  made and documented on the reservation form, 
clients were referred  to an independent financial adviser to continue  the process. 
Insight questioned why it was acceptable  that information required from Mr Rs son 
hadnt been forthcoming. It said there had to be a reason why Mr R and his 
representative hadnt divulged the information,  which might be because what  Insight 
had said was true. Mr R had given  a detailed statement about what had happened  
with Insight even  though that had been  in 2009  and without having a similar depth of 
recall about what had happened  with the agent,  his son. 
It wasnt clear  whod advised Mr R when it came to changing the investment from the 
original property to a fractional (50%) investment in another property and whod  
helped him through the legal  process.  The rental income  for a smaller property would 
Ref: DRN125657510have been less and hed have known that from information from the SIPP  provider 
and he should  have queried it. He hadnt  asked Insight about it.  
Mr Rs son had been involved  in the later project  and was also a company director. 
That didnt paint  a true picture of what Mr R knew about his sons activities and could  
suggest there was something to hide.  
If taking his pension  benefits at age 65 was so important to Mr R why didnt he 
contact the SIPP  provider or an adviser  at the time to find out what  his options  were?
my findings
Mr R is complaining about advice given in 2009. His complaint was made to Insight in 
September 2017. Insight initially said the complaint had been  made  too late  more than six
years after the advice had been  given and more than three  years  from when Mr R was
aware (or reasonably  ought to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. One of my
ombudsman colleagues  issued her jurisdiction decision on 13 November 2018.  Her
view, for the reasons she set out, was that Mr Rs complaint hadnt been made too late and
we could investigate  it.
Were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our investigation of the 
complaint. Ive done that. My view remains the same as my colleagues  that the complaint 
hasnt been made too late. 
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In response to my further provisional  decision  Insight highlights a lack of detail from Mr R 
and his son about the latters involvement.  Id earlier noted that I didnt think  Mr Rs son had 
been particularly  forthcoming. But, even if I accept  what Insight say about  Mr Rs son, I dont 
think that would change my views overall. I think I can reach a fair decision  based on what  
Ive seen.  
To explain, I can accept  that, as a trained sales agent, Mr Rs son would have been aware of 
the facility to purchase the property via a SIPP. And the reservation form which Mr R signed  
identified a SIPP as the selected  payment  plan option. Its unclear exactly what, if anything, 
was discussed  between Mr R and his son or any of his colleagues. Mr R has said hed never 
heard of a SIPP before  his meeting with Insights adviser. Its possible that payment option 
was entered onto the reservation  form with little or no discussion. 
But, even  if that wasnt the case and there was discussion about a SIPP  and how that 
worked which Mr R doesnt now recall, the point is that he was then referred to Insight for 
advice about if he should transfer  to a SIPP to facilitate the investment in Cape Verde. Even 
if Mr R had (or should have had) some  idea what a SIPP was and that it could be used as a 
pension vehicle to invest in overseas property, it was up to Insights adviser  to give suitable  
advice. For the reasons  Ive explained I dont  think  he did.
I accept what Mr R has said about  not having  made a firm decision to go ahead until hed 
had that advice. Insights advice was pivotal. If Insight had advised  against I dont think Mr R 
would have gone ahead.  In saying that I recognise, as Ive done throughout, Mr Rs sons  
involvement and which  Ive carefully  considered.  But, for the reasons Ive explained earlier,  I 
dont think Mr R would have proceeded but for Insights  advice  that he should. 
Ref: DRN125657511Insight has termed it a problem that Mr R had to be referred to a regulated  adviser for the 
switch to a SIPP to go ahead. The issue is one of consumer protection. A requirement to 
take advice from an independent, trained and regulated  professional adviser aims to avoid 
poor consumer outcomes  and detriment. Financial services and products, including 
pensions, can be complicated.  Regulated  firms have to recommend appropriate products 
and provide services  in line with their regulatory duties and obligations. Insights adviser  had 
to give unbiased  suitable advice. It wasnt a case of simply  continuing  the process or rubber 
stamping what Mr R thought he might  want to do, based on what  other,  unqualified, parties 
may have  told him. Transferring to a SIPP to invest in overseas property wasnt  suitable for 
Mr R. Insights adviser should have told Mr R that. 
I havent investigated what happened later when there was a consolidation  exercise. It may 
be that Mr Rs son helped  him. I dont know. But I dont think that changes anything  as to 
what Ive said about the unsuitable advice Insight had earlier  given and which meant  Mr R 
went ahead  with the property purchase. 
I note that Insight remains concerned about Mr Rs and his sons  later involvement in the 
project mentioned.  I think the situation was somewhat unique.  But it all happened  several  
years later. It cant  be right to take into account after acquired knowledge or expertise. Ive 
judged the advice on the basis of Mr Rs circumstances at the time. And Im not sure, even if 
he had a greater  degree of knowledge at the time,  Id reach  a different conclusion anyway. 
I dont regard it as significant that Mr R apparently didnt enquire about  taking his benefits 
from his SIPP when  he reached age 65. Im not sure if Insight is saying that casts doubt on 
whether Mr R would  have retained  his existing pension plan. Mr R may have been forced to 
reconsider and delay  taking his benefits  when he reached age 65 given that the Cape Verde 
investment was illiquid. Or his plans  to retire then may have changed generally.  
All in all my view remains, for the reasons Ive given here and in my earlier provisional 
decisions, that Mr Rs complaint  should be upheld. 
redress
Insight should  redress Mr R as Ive previously suggested. I set out in my further provisional 
decision that Mr Rs total monthly income  was £870.14 or £10,441.68  pa. Including  the 
annuity income made a total of £14,134.68. The current personal allowance  is £12,500 so 
Mr R would currently be a basic rate tax payer on a small part of his income. Instead of 
applying a reduction of reduction  of 20% I thought  10% should be applied to recognise that 
Mr R would have to pay tax on about  half the income he received from his existing pension  
provider. The same reduction can be applied to the capital cost of the annuity. 
I also acknowledged that Mr R didnt think it fair that his current state of health  might result in 
it costing Insight less to put things right. But I still thought Insight could take that into account 
if it chose. I said wed expect Mr R to assist  Insight to facilitate that settlement if required. 
And, despite Mr Rs disappointment  with the award  for distress and inconvenience, I said I 
wasnt going to increase  it. 
past loss
Mr R will have suffered a past loss in terms of the annuity payments hed have  received
since he turned 65. According to the previous  provider Mr R would have got £3,693.00  pa on 
the basis set out (after  payment of tax free cash of £19,494.88). Insight must pay the annuity 
Ref: DRN125657512amounts to Mr R plus interest  (at 8% simple  pa) from the date each payment fell due to the 
date of settlement.  Insight  can apply a reduction of 10% to the payments to reflect  the tax 
that Mr R would have  paid.  
Insight will also need to pay Mr R the tax free cash lump sum of £19,494.99 plus interest on 
the same  basis  8% pa from his 65th birthday to the date of payment. 
future loss
Insight will need to pay Mr R the current capital cost of providing  an equivalent annuity on 
the same  basis. That can be adjusted to reflect the tax Mr R would have paid on the annuity 
payments. Again a 10% reduction is fair here.   
I understand Mr R has some health  issues which may mean hed qualify  for an enhanced
annuity rate (which would  be reflected in the cost of the annuity). If Insight wants to take into
account Mr Rs health in costing the annuity  it can ask him to complete a medical
questionnaire. 
Mr Rs SIPP
That still leaves Mr Rs SIPP. Ideally it should be closed. But I dont think  that will be possible
given that it still holds the Cape Verde hotel room (or a share  in it). As far as Im aware that
investment is illiquid  theres no market  for it and it cant readily be sold. Insight should take
ownership by paying  a commercial value acceptable  to the SIPP provider. That will remove
the asset from the SIPP and allow it to be closed.
If Insight is unable or unwilling to purchase the investment the actual value  should  be
assumed to be nil. Insight  may require that Mr R provides an undertaking to pay Insight any
amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must allow for
any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP. Insight will
also need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If the SIPP cant be closed then Mr R will continue to incur  SIPP  fees. I think there are
arrears too. Ive seen  a letter  dated  8 March  2018  from the SIPP provider about outstanding
annual administration  fees for 2015 (£576 including VAT);  2016 (£594); and 2017 (£594).
Thats a total of £1,764.  The letter  says a rental payment of £94.33  has been received and
the SIPP bank  account has a balance  of £250.63, which  makes  a shortfall of £1,513. Id
assume that since then further fees may have been  added.
Mr R only has the SIPP because Insight  gave unsuitable advice. Insight should clear the
SIPP fee arrears  whether the SIPP can be closed or not.
And, if the SIPP cant be closed, Insight will need to make a payment to Mr R for future SIPP
fees. Insight should pay Mr R a lump  sum equivalent  to five years  worth of SIPP fees at the
current rate. This gives a reasonable period within which the residual illiquid investment held
in the SIPP  can be removed and the SIPP closed. Im not sure if, in the interim, any further
rental payments will be made  into the SIPP. My understanding is that such payments may
now have ceased.  But if any are made  they can be dealt with under the terms of any
undertaking Mr R gives.
The disruption to Mr Rs retirement plans will have caused him distress and inconvenience.
Insight should  pay him £250 compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN125657513my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint. Insight Financial Associates Limited must redress  Mr R as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1256575