K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA is holding him responsible for some  
purchases made under a credit  facility attached to his account.
background
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to set it out here 
in detail. In summary,  a PayPal credit facility was set up in February 2018 on one of Mr Ps 
two PayPal accounts. Mr P has told us that this wasnt him. The facility was then used to 
purchase electronics.  They were  delivered  to a store near where Mr P lives and collected 
from there, apparently using identification showing Mr Ps details.
On the date the items were  purchased,  changes  were  made  to the account  to which the 
facility was added. These  included the addition of a new mobile phone as well as a new 
email address containing part of Mr Ps name. Mr P says he doesnt  recognise that email 
address. So, he says he didnt receive  any information about  the purchases  or the credit 
facility.
It appears Mr P did later receive some information about the outstanding amounts on his 
account, which he initially dismissed as likely spam. But on following this up with PayPal, it 
said that its investigations didnt indicate there  had been any fraud  on his account. He was 
told that hed need to raise this with the local police, and they could then get in touch  with 
PayPal about  it. Mr P says that he did raise this with Action Fraud. Although  it doesnt 
appear that the investigation went anywhere. Mr P was ultimately pursued by a debt 
collector before PayPal  sold the debt to a third party.
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. But didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought that PayPal had provided enough evidence to show that it was more likely than not 
Mr P, or someone known to him, that had taken  out the facility and bought/collected the 
items. There  was no obvious explanation as to how his account could have been accessed if 
it had not been by Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans  review  and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but I too dont think that his complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why below, although I will say here that I appreciate that the circumstances of this 
complaint are very unusual. And this was a finely balanced decision.
As our investigator will have explained to Mr P, we need to make  findings based on what is 
more likely than not to have happened. That means that whilst I cant  be sure that Mr P 
hasnt been the victim of fraud  here, the evidence points  to it being more  likely  than not that 
he authorised these transactions.
For PayPal to hold Mr P responsible for taking out this credit facility, and the subsequent 
spending on the account, it must show that Mr P authorised the transactions. That means 
that the account was accessed  using Mr Ps details and that he consented to the activity on 
it.
Ref: DRN14992922Mr P had two accounts with PayPal, neither of which he used very much. They  were  both 
linked to an email  address  that Mr P accepts was his (S.com). It appears  that Mr P first 
opened an account with PayPal in 2003  to make  some online  auction site purchases.  He 
then didnt use that account  much  and in 2011 another PayPal  account  was opened in his 
name. One purchase  was made on that in 2011  and another  in 2015.  Mr P accepts that the 
first transaction is one that he recognises,  and the second was probably him too. 
Mr P thinks  that a fraudster must have accessed  his second account,  changed  his email and 
phone details and then placed  the orders. But the strange thing here is that the electronic 
items were delivered to a store near where  Mr P lives and collected  from there.  A credit  card 
account that Mr P recognises was also linked to both the accounts, although Mr P says that 
this isnt a card account that he uses anymore.
Unfortunately, we havent been given a plausible  explanation as to how someone could have 
accessed Mr Ps PayPal account without having  access to his phone,  email  account and 
password or other personal details that only he would have known. 
PayPal has provided  us with evidence of the internet (IP) addresses from which both of Mr 
Ps accounts were  accessed before, during, and after the alleged  fraud.  Ive looked those up 
online and they mostly  appear to originate  from servers operated by the same broadband 
company. The same  IP address was also used to access both of his accounts  on the day in 
question too.
The credit facility taken  out was for £2,000, although only £1,400 odd of that was used in this 
alleged fraud. Thats  strange,  as ordinarily fraudsters make use of the entire  facility.  Or will 
deplete the balance on someones  bank  account  when committing this sort of fraud.
Now I dont rule out that someone could have fraudulently  accessed  information about Mr P. 
There have been  plenty of reported data leaks from various companies.  So, it is possible 
that his details have been obtained and then used fraudulently. Or indeed his account could 
have been hacked, or he may have  downloaded some malware that has allowed his 
personal information to be stolen.
But the question  that still stands out most is why would  a fraudster deliver  the items 
purchased to a store  near where  Mr P lives? Im afraid that its the lack of a plausible 
explanation for this, when looked at together with the other  evidence  provided by PayPal, 
that means,  on balance,  Ive had to conclude that the transactions  were  more likely than not 
carried out by Mr P or at his direction. That means  that I wont be upholding Mr Ps 
complaint.
In closing, I would like to apologise to Mr P for the delays there have been in investigating  
this complaint. I was unhappy to see that PayPal originally refused to provide us with the 
information that we needed to investigate this complaint,  citing data protection  concerns. 
Another ombudsman  had to issue a jurisdiction  decision  before we got what we needed from 
PayPal.
I was also concerned that PayPals initial response to Mr P was to say that it couldnt help 
him any more with his allegations of fraud. And that it said it would only deal with a local law 
enforcement agency if Mr P reported the alleged identity theft. It said it would need the police 
to fill in its forms before it could provide  any further information.
Ref: DRN14992923Liaising with third parties in this way is not something that a lot of police forces have the time 
or resources  to do. Given the serious allegations that Mr P was making, and that PayPal was 
holding him responsible for the transactions, I think PayPal could have been much more  
forthcoming with information on what had taken  place  on his account,  so that he could 
appropriately answer for it. For example,  when he came to us, Mr P didnt even know  what 
he was alleged to have purchased. So, Id hope  that PayPal will consider this going forward  
when dealing with similar customer concerns.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. And I wont  be making any 
direction against  PayPal  Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499292