K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1987. Mr and Mrs E says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs E say this PPI was mis-sold to them when they took out a loan for £9,000 in a 
branch of Halifax. They paid a monthly  amount for the PPI.
The PPI was designed to cover Mr E for up to 24 months per claim if he had to stop work 
unexpectedly due to accident,  sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs E say they didnt know PPI had been  added to their account   and they think  it 
was added after they signed  for the PPI. And they thought it was compulsory with the loan. 
Halifax say it would  have  made it clear  there  was a choice in taking PPI  and it would have 
got their consent  before  adding the cover. So I find what both parties  say equally plausible. 
And so Ill need  to take into account any evidence I have from the sale so I can decide what I 
think is most likely  to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement.  After  the information about the loan itself, it says 
Payment Protection Insurance with two boxes next to it  a Yes and a No box. I can see 
that a tick has been placed in the Yes  box. And the agreement has been signed as a 
whole. So I think from this it is clear  that Mr and Mrs E could have  ticked  the No box had 
they not wanted a policy.  
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs E have said about the PPI being added  after theyd 
already signed  the agreement. But for me to be able to agree with what  theyve said,  I have 
to think this was more likely. It's possible this could have  happened,  but I dont think its more  
likely. And so I cant fairly say, based  on what Ive read and been told, that Halifax added the 
cover without Mr and Mrs E knowing about it.
So although  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed by this finding,  I think Halifax  
gave them a choice  in taking the cover,  and I think it more likely they agreed to take it.
Ref: DRN12559632Halifax say it would  have  recommended  the cover to Mr and Mrs E. So it would  have needed 
to check the policy was suitable for them. Mr E was the person  covered  by the policy, so I 
have mainly taken his circumstances into consideration when coming  to my decision. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs E have  made a number  of points relating to the sale of a number of policies 
theyve taken out in the past.  Ive taken into account  everything theyve  said and thought 
carefully about the points theyve raised. But these points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1255963