K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  took too long to apply a default  after he wasnt  able to 
maintain the full payments  to his credit card. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision  a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld and 
what MBNA should do to resolve matters. I said I intended to tell MBNA to back  date the 
default of Mr Ks credit card to February 2016.  I invited Mr K and MBNA to send  me any 
additional information or comments they wanted me to consider. 
Mr K didnt provide  any new information. MBNA  responded  to say it didnt agree with my 
intention to uphold  this complaint. MBNA  said Mr K had a surplus monthly income of £867 
which should have  meant his payment arrangement of £116.56 was affordable. MBNA also 
provided some additional information about how arrears are calculated and explained it 
remained of the view that Mr Ks default was correctly registered on 30 September  2016. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  about  all of the 
additional points  MBNA has made. 
In my provisional decision I said that I thought  it should have  been  reasonably  clear  at an 
earlier stage that Mr Ks situation was unlikely to improve to the point where he could avoid a 
default. I thought  the point that MBNA  should  have seen its relationship with Mr K had 
broken down was three months after it received information about his income and outgoings 
from a debt advice  service. I explained  that I thought the fairest point for the default to be 
registered was February  2016, not September 2016. 
MBNA responded  to say it didnt agree. MBNA said that Mr Ks surplus income was £867 a 
month which, when compared  against  the reduced  payment of £116.56, was reasonable. 
MBNA also says that information was provided  by the third party debt advice  service  so it 
didnt contact Mr K directly. But the evidence Ive seen from the debt advice service  shows  
Mr Ks household income had £867 surplus  before any monthly payments to cover  
unsecured debts were  taken into account.  The budget planner shows two incomes  were  
used to generate  the surplus  figure. That means £867  doesnt  solely  relate to Mr K. And, as 
Ive said, the rest of the information provided  by the debt advice service  shows  Mr K had 
monthly debt commitments that took up the remaining surplus  household  income.  
So whilst there was a £867 surplus household  income after normal living costs were 
covered, that wasnt sufficient to cover all the unsecured  debt repayments  as well. Im 
satisfied that the information shows the household expenses, in addition to Mr Ks unsecured  
debts, were not sustainable.  I think thats reasonably demonstrated  by the fact Mr K wasnt 
able to maintain  payments of £116.56  in the long term which  led to his credit  card being 
defaulted. 
Ref: DRN19434502Ive also thought about the information MBNA has provided concerning  how it calculates 
arrears. But, in line with my provisional decision,  Im satisfied the industry guidance  allows 
some flexibility to recognise individual circumstances and that MBNA  could  have taken the 
step of applying a default to Mr Ks account  after it had been in arrears for three months. 
Mr K says the delay  in recording a default means  it will remain on his credit file for longer. As 
a result,  it will make getting  credit  again in the future harder. I agree that by amending  the 
default date to February 2016 it will drop off Mr Ks credit history  sooner. 
Ive considered everything that MBNA has said in its response to my provisional decision. 
But I remain  of the view that the fairest approach to resolve this complaint is for MBNA to 
back date the default to February 2016.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require MBNA Limited to amend  the default  
date for Mr Ks credit  card to February  2016.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN19434503Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  took too long to apply a default  after he wasnt  able to 
maintain the full payments  to his credit card. 
Background
In November 2015 a debt advice charity contacted MBNA about a credit  card Mr K had with 
it. Mr K was experiencing  financial difficulties and the third party was contacting his creditors  
to offer reduced  payments.  As a result,  MBNA confirmed it had suspended interest and 
charges on Mr Ks account,  that arrears  would continue to accrue and his account  may still 
default. 
MBNA applied a default in September 2016.  At this point Mr Ks account had reached six full 
payments in arrears.  
In 2018 Mr K complained and said he thought MBNA should have moved to default his credit 
card sooner  as it was clear he wasnt able to afford his payments in November 2015. MBNA  
didnt agree as it had applied the default  in line with its standard policy  after the account 
had built up a full six months missed  payments.  Mr K referred  his complaint to our service.  
An adjudicator looked at what  had happened  and asked MBNA to change the default date to 
November 2015   when it was first told about  Mr Ks financial difficulties. MBNA didnt agree 
and said it had applied  the default  in line with its process and industry  guidance. As a result,  
the complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
MBNAs told us that its standard policy  is to default  an account only once its a full six 
months in arrears. As Mr K was making  partial payments to his credit card, it extended the 
length of time before  MBNA took that step.  Whilst I agree that MBNA is able to decide  what  
processes to follow, I think Mr Ks been  negatively impacted by the approach its taken here.  
Ive looked at the information MBNA was given by the third party  in November 2015. The 
information MBNA received showed the majority of Mr Ks disposable income  was taken up 
by making reduced  payments to his various creditors.  I agree with Mr K that it should  have  
been reasonably clear  to MBNA  that unless something significant changed in his 
circumstances his account would almost certainly  default. 
I appreciate that MBNAs policy means  it defaults an account  only once its a full six months 
in arrears. And MBNAs  explained  this gives customers time to address their finances and a 
chance to repay their arrears. I agree that in lots of situations thats a fair approach, but not 
here. I think  the information MBNA  received made it reasonably clear that Mr K had lots of 
debts, none of which were  being  paid in full, and that there was very little disposable  income. 
The information showed Mr K had no reasonable prospect  of bringing his account  up to date. 
As a result, I cant see that MBNA achieved anything by waiting until September  2016 to 
default Mr Ks credit  card. 
Ref: DRN19434504MBNA said its followed industry guidance  by deciding to use the six month  point to apply  a 
default. But the guidance says business will normally  default  an account when its between  
three and six months in arrears. It doesnt say whether that means there were three to six 
missed or reduced payments or whether its been  in arrears for that period. The guidance  
allows some  flexibility for lenders to take a range of approaches.  I think  that reflects the fact 
each customer has different circumstances. 
The guidance doesnt say a lender has to wait for the full six months arrears to build. 
However, the guidance does say a default should  be used to reflect a breakdown in the 
relationship between borrower and lender. As a result, I think  MBNA should  have applied the 
default when it became  reasonably clear  that its relationship with Mr K had broken down. 
The adjudicator asked MBNA to change the default date to November 2015  when the debt 
advice charity got in touch  on Mr Ks behalf. But I wouldnt  expect MBNA to immediately 
default Mr Ks credit  card. I think a period of around  three months from receiving information 
from the debt advice charity would  have been fair in this case. That would mean applying the 
default in February  2016 which would have given Mr K time to look at his finances  and 
investigate whether it was realistically  possible to repay what he owed. If, after that that time, 
Mr K was still unable to meet his minimum payments or offer a plan to bring his account  up 
to date I think MBNA should have considered defaulting the account. 
Mr K says that by delaying the default  to December 2016 the adverse information will remain  
on his credit file for longer. And that will make it harder to obtain credit in the future. I think 
thats a reasonably point. I agree that by extending  the period before defaulting Mr Ks 
account the default will remain on his credit file for longer  and I accept that will most likely 
make it harder to get credit in the future.  I understand  that the default should  reflect  the 
borrowing history on the account but I think registering the default in February  2016  more 
accurately achieves  that purpose. 
Its up to MBNA to decide what policies it uses when customers are in arrears and when to 
default. But in this case, I think the time spent by waiting for the full six months arrears to 
build unfairly and negatively impacted Mr K. The industry guidance allows  for some flexibility  
in the way businesses apply defaults and while there are situations where  waiting for a full 
six months arrears to build before moving to default  is fair, I havent found that to be the case  
here. As a result, I intend to tell MBNA to change  the date its reported  Mr Ks default  from 
September 2016 to February 2016. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and tell MBNA Limited  to 
amend the default date for Mr Ks credit card to February 2016.
Mr K and MBNA Limited have until 25 July 2019 to send me anything further theyd like me 
to consider before I make my final decision.  
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1943450