K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold  a regular premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
Although Marks & Spencer (M&S) sold the PPI to Mr R, the insurers,  Allianz  Insurance Plc 
(Allianz), have accepted  responsibility for the sale. So the complaint has been  set up 
against them.
background
In 1996, Mr R applied  in store for an M&S store card. The PPI was taken at the same time, 
alongside the store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought Mr R made it clear 
in his application he wanted  the policy and it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr R disagrees,  he says,  in summary,  because  the application form strongly recommended  
taking PPI, he thought it was a sensible thing to do and that his application for credit would 
stance more chance of success.  He says that if the application form hadnt said this, he 
wouldve given more  consideration  to whether  he wanted PPI, and not taken it out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed, if anything,  in the store.  But, Mr R appears to have mainly 
relied on what the application  form said, when  he decided  to take out PPI.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Rs store card application form. I can see in the section dealing with 
PPI that Mr R has ticked to select PPI. Hes also filled in his name and date of birth as the 
person to be insured. 
If Mr R didnt want to take out PPI he neednt have filled in these boxes. He left other boxes 
blank on the form.  From what Mr Rs said, he knew he didnt have to take PPI, but thought 
his application  for credit  might stand a better chance of being accepted  if he did. I havent  
seen anything that leads me to the conclusion that Allianz misled him into believing  that. 
Mr R said he wouldve  give more consideration to whether he wanted or needed PPI if 
Allianz hadnt strongly recommended  it. However, I dont think this was an advised sale,  
where Mr Rs individual circumstances  were considered by a representative in the store. So, 
I think it was up to Mr R to decide for himself whether the PPI was right for him and he 
wanted it. Although  the application  form had the words We strongly recommend , I think  
this is different to making a recommendation. And I cant see the by using these  words  alone 
Allianz misled Mr R into believing  it was making  a personal recommendation.
Ref: DRN18557402So, as the PPI wasnt recommended to Mr R, Allianzs responsibility was to give Mr R 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way, so he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
I dont know what other  information was given to Mr R at the point of sale.  So, I cant say 
whether the information given was good  enough.  But, based on Mr Rs circumstances at the 
time, I cant see that the policy  was inappropriate for him or that with clearer  information he 
wouldve decided not to buy it. I say this because  Mr R opted to buy the insurance, knowing 
what his circumstances  were at the time.
He was eligible  for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations of cover  that wouldve made  it more difficult for him to make a successful 
claim. So, I dont think  that having more information about these things wouldve led 
him to make  a different  choice.
Mr R says he wouldve got sick pay, but didnt  have  any savings he could use to 
make his repayments. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and 
for potentially longer.  So I think the policy provided a useful  benefit  for Mr R in his 
situation.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable and he couldve cancelled it at 
any time if he didnt want it. 
So, I cant see that Mr R has lost out because of what Allianz may have done wrong.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint against  Allianz  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1855740