K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that The New India Assurance Company Limited 
(New India) declined a claim they made  for subsidence damage to their property and about 
the overall service  they have received from New India  and its agents.  
background
There has been extensive communication and investigation into whether Mr and Mrs G are 
eligible complainants  under the rules which govern our service. But all sides  are now in 
agreement that this complaint is one our service  has the power to consider.  So, I wont make 
any further comments on this point in this decision.
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on behalf  of 
either New India or Mr and Mrs G. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to New India and 
Mr and Mrs G in this decision, even when referring  to the actions or comments of their 
agents/representatives.
Mr and Mrs G insured  one of their commercial properties through New India between  late 
2009 and early 2011. In 2010  they made  a claim  for cracking at their property which  they 
believed was being caused  by subsidence.  New India sent a loss adjuster to assess  the 
claim on 14 September 2010. His report  explains that the majority of the damage  at this time 
could be classified  as slight (BRE  Digest 251 Category 1). He said the internal damage 
was lateral related and mainly due to sideways movement of the main components.  He 
said the flank wall showed  signs of historical lateral  movement which  had deteriorated over 
time and likely pre-dated  the policy by decades.  He also noted the presence of three lateral  
restraints which he said were likely installed during  construction. No geotechnical site 
investigations were  conducted at this time.
Overall, the loss adjusters opinion was that there  was no evidence  of recent subsidence, 
heave or landslip.  He said the damage was due to historical lateral movement of the main 
gable end flank wall. Based on this, he explained  to Mr and Mrs G that the issues werent 
covered by their policy. He also advised them to have the repairs completed  themselves as 
part of their annual  property maintenance program.
Mr and Mrs G accepted this at the time and didnt raise any further issues with New India  or 
its loss adjuster until 2013.
In October  2013, Mr and Mrs G approached the loss adjuster who dealt with the issues  in 
2010 and reported further cracking at their property. This cracking  was mainly located 
around the rear elevation,  as opposed to the gable  end flank  wall. 
The loss adjuster visited their property again and, in mid-2014, agreed to undertake a limited 
period of monitoring, strictly on a without prejudice  basis, for a period of six months. At this 
point it was noted that the maintenance/repairs suggested in 2010 didnt appear to have 
been completed. 
By March 2015, the monitoring had shown some  progressive movement at the property  
which was attributed  to a nearby tree owned by the local authority. Monitoring and 
investigations continued during 2015 and the loss adjuster also advised Mr and Mrs G that it 
would install some additional lateral  restraints. In March 2016 it suggested installing some 
propping and that it would appoint an arboriculturist and extend the monitoring.
Ref: DRN16654952In April 2016, New India  became aware  that the loss adjuster  had reopened its claim file and 
had been conducting further  investigations.  It advised the loss adjuster that its claim file had 
been archived  as the claim was declined  in 2010. It questioned why the loss adjuster  would  
reopen its file for new damage some three to four years later  rather  than referring 
Mr and Mrs G to their new insurer.
New India assessed the new evidence, including the level monitoring. This showed that, 
rather than downward  movement, there was some upward movement of the rear left-hand  
corner during the drier months. Further investigations  were conducted in 2016 such  as an 
assessment of the soil strata  which  was found  to be medium  to high plasticity  clay  prone 
to swelling  and shrinking  depending on the weather. Based  on all the evidence it was 
suggested by the loss adjuster that subsidence may be the cause, or a contributory cause, 
of further movement and damage to the rear of the property.
In June 2017, the loss adjuster submitted  a detailed email to Mr and Mrs G which explained 
that there  were two distinct  and separate patterns of movement. These were lateral 
movement of the main  flank wall  shown to be historic and not covered by the policy  and 
a second pattern of movement toward  the rear which  appeared to be as a result of ground 
movement. He explained this damage  could be covered by the policy,  in principle.
In July 2017, the loss adjuster submitted  a further  report, to New Indias third-party  
administrator, summarising the above findings. New India assessed this and advised that as 
the damage caused by ground movement  was unrelated to the damage reported in 2010, it 
should be reported to Mr and Mrs Gs new insurer  because New India  came  off cover in 
2011. Based  on this New India  has maintained its decision not to cover Mr and Mrs Gs 
claim.
Mr and Mrs G have since provided two structural engineers reports, in 2018  and 2019 
respectively. Each of these states that the property is suffering from damage to due 
progressive ground movement. Mr and Mrs G havent raised  the issues  with their new 
insurer as they believe the progressive damage  is linked  to the issues  reported in 2010 and 
that New India should cover their claim.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. She agreed  that 
Mr and Mrs Gs property seemed to have suffered some damage caused by ground 
movement. But she felt this had most likely  happened after Mr and Mrs Gs cover through 
New India had ended   and so wasnt New Indias responsibility to put right.  She did think 
Mr and Mrs G had had their expectations unfairly  raised by the loss adjusters actions. But 
she was persuaded  that New India was unaware of the loss adjusters actions and so didnt 
authorise these.
That said,  our investigator  did find that New Indias third-party administrators were  aware  of 
the actions of the loss adjuster and she felt they ought to have notified New India  about  what 
was happening sooner  than they did. Had they done  so, she felt that Mr and Mrs G would 
have been told the claim wouldnt  be covered much sooner  than they were  which  would 
have reduced the level of frustration and disappointment they have experienced.
 
Our investigators opinion  was the third-party  administrators are agents of New India and so, 
ultimately, New India  were responsible for the length of time the claim had been allowed to 
run and for the distress Mr and Mrs G experienced because of this. So, she said New India 
should pay Mr and Mrs G £400 compensation to reflect this issue.
Ref: DRN16654953Neither Mr and Mrs G nor New India  accepted  our investigators opinion.  So, because  no 
agreement has been reached,  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Gs policy with New India started around 31 December 2009  and ended on 
4 January 2011. The policy provided cover for damage caused by subsidence, heave or 
landslip, but not for structural issues such as lateral  movement or for damage which  
originated prior to inception of its cover. This means  that for New India to be responsible for 
settling the claim, it needs to be established  that there was damage caused by active  ground 
movement (subsidence, heave or landslip) between  31 December 2009 and 4 January 2011.
Mr and Mrs G initially  accepted New Indias decision to decline their claim in 2010.  But they 
have since raised  concerns that it didnt carry out sufficient investigations, such  as soil tests  
or level monitoring. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Gs concern here, but I dont  agree  that New India 
acted unfairly in declining their claim in 2010,  based  on the evidence it had. I say this 
because its loss adjusters opinion, based  on a site visit, was that the damage was both 
historical and due to lateral restraint issues. Had he have  felt progressive ground movement 
was possible,  I would  have expected further investigations to take place. But as he was able 
to identify the likely cause of damage  as being  something  other than ground movement, I 
dont think this was necessary  in the circumstances.
I also note, albeit with the benefit  of hindsight, that none of the subsequent  investigations  
which have taken place  between 2014 and 2019 have linked the initial  damage reported  to 
ground movement. On the contrary, each of the experts have confirmed  that the damage 
toward that gable  end flank wall is as a result of lateral restraint issues  and is separate to the 
damage to the rear addition, reported  several years later, which  they suggest is likely  as a 
result of ground movement. 
New India argues  that this damage  occurred several years after Mr and Mrs Gs policy with it 
had ended. And I note that the expert evidence, including the reports commissioned by 
Mr and Mrs G, appear to support this. For example, Mr and Mrs Gs expert report  from 2018 
states, 
Given the circumstances of this claim, we are unable to give any exact indication of 
when damage  occurred, although the cracking appears to be fairly  recent  in origin.
And their second expert report from 2019 states:
Cracking between the staircase and the side elevation is symptomatic of that 
resulting from lack of restraint  and lateral movement. Externally the brickwork  cracks 
do not extend to the parapet. Damage externally is also,  in my opinion, symptomatic  
of that caused  predominantly by lateral movement.
..
Ref: DRN16654954The property had been stable for a considerable period prior to 2010 when the claim  
was initially submitted. This was followed by a period  of stability then further 
movement occurred in 2014 when the claim was reopened.
So, Mr and Mrs Gs own experts have stated  that the property was stable between  2010 and 
2014 and that the cracking  to the rear elevation  appeared fairly recent in origin in 2018. 
Taking this expert evidence into account, it seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs Gs property 
suffered damage  due to ground movement  during the time that New India  was their insurer.
Based on all the available expert evidence, I think its more likely than not that the damage 
reported in 2010 was caused by structural issues and lateral movement   which  arent 
covered by Mr and Mrs Gs policy with New India. I also dont think  its likely  that 
Mr and Mrs Gs property suffered damage  due to subsidence, landslip or heave during the 
time they were insured  by New India. So, I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
New India to provide cover for an issue which doesnt seem to have  been  present when it 
was Mr and Mrs Gs insurer.
It follows that Im not instructing New India to cover  Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
Mr and Mrs G have also complained about  the level of service they have received from 
New Indias agents during their claim,  and about the length of time it took for a decision to 
made on the claim by New India.
Ive thought carefully about this. I agree that Mr and Mrs G had their expectations raised by 
the loss adjuster when it made  suggestions  that some repairs would be carried  out  and by 
its decision to continue  investigations for the length of time it did. However, based on the 
communications Ive seen  between the loss adjuster  and New India, Im satisfied that these 
actions werent authorised  by New India, and neither does  it seem  to have been aware of the 
actions of the loss adjuster until 2016.
I can see that the loss adjuster was sending  regular reports to New Indias third-party  
administrators  highlighting the action it was taking. But I havent seen anything to confirm 
that the action  was approved by either  New India or the administrators. 
That said,  the third-party administrators were aware  of the actions of the loss adjuster and I 
would have expected them to notify New India if the claim was being reopened. This didnt 
happen initially, and I think  this resulted in a significant delay in the claim being declined  
again. Because the administrators are an agent  of New India, the responsibility for their 
inaction here rests with New India. So, New India  (as principal) is ultimately responsible  for 
the unnecessary  delay,  and the impact  the inaction of its administrators, had on 
Mr and Mrs G. 
Had New India been notified about  the continued actions of the loss adjuster sooner, it would 
have been able to reiterate its decision to decline  the claim and refer Mr and Mrs G to their 
new insurer, much  sooner than it did. This would have given Mr and Mrs G clarity on 
New Indias position, rather than the ongoing confusion  and frustration  they experienced. So, 
I think New India should pay Mr and Mrs G some compensation for this delay and the impact 
it had on them.
Ref: DRN16654955Mr and Mrs G have said they should  be compensated for 10 years worth of delays and 
confusion. Ive considered this, but I dont agree that this is the case. The issues in 2010 
were dealt with swiftly and there was no ongoing claim between then and 2014  when the 
loss adjuster agreed to six-months monitoring on a without prejudice  basis.  So, I dont think 
compensation needs to be paid for the period where  there  was no active claim, or where 
monitoring was being carried out on a without  prejudice basis.  
However, I agree that following discovery  of some ground movement around March  2015, 
New India ought to have been notified of developments.  And if it had been, I think it would 
have made  it clear that it wasnt going  to cover  the claim much sooner than it was actually 
able to. Due to the delays,  New India didnt  make its position clear  until Spring 2017. So, its 
this period of time, and the frustration and confusion Mr and Mrs G suffered within it, which I 
believe they should be compensated for. 
Based on everything  that happened, I think New India  is ultimately  responsible for the delays 
and confusion Mr and Mrs G suffered between March 2015  and Spring 2017.  So, I think 
New India should pay them £400  to compensate them for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in part.
The New India Assurance Company Limited  must  pay Mr and Mrs G £400  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  it has caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1665495