K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains about a delay in him receiving  the PIN for a credit card from 
John Lewis  Financial Services Ltd.
Background
Mr P has a credit card issued by John Lewis Financial Services.
Mr P applied for his credit card with John  Lewis Financial Services online. His application 
was approved and he received his card shortly afterwards. He didnt, however, receive  the 
PIN for his card. He called  John Lewis Financial Services several times to chase his PIN and 
ended up complaining when he still didnt get it.
John Lewis  Financial Services looked into Mr Ps complaint  and said that it had sent his PIN 
on a disc as there was a disability marker on its records. John Lewis Financial  Services  
removed the marker,  sent Mr P a PIN reminder  by post and offered to pay £100 
compensation. Mr P was unhappy with the amount of compensation offered  by 
John Lewis  Financial Services. So he referred  his complaint to this service. He complained 
that hed lost out financially as he needed  the PIN in order  to buy a laptop   the price of 
which had gone  up in the meantime.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. They said £100 was fair and reasonable 
compensation and that Mr P hadnt  lost out financially because of the delay. Mr P disagreed. 
He said hed lost out financially as the price of a laptop he wanted to buy from the 
John Lewis  store had gone up by the time he received the PIN. He bought  it at the lower 
price from another  shop  but got a shorter warranty. He said he also had to pay more  for 
additional insurance. He said hed lost a month  of the interest free period on the card too. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P received his card shortly after his application  went through  but not his PIN. He phoned 
John Lewis  Financial Services to find out when hed get his PIN as he needed it to use his 
card in shops. John Lewis Financial Services didnt investigate whether there  was a problem 
until Mr P called a fourth time. Until then, all they did was send PIN reminders. To make  
matters worse, John Lewis Financial Services also told Mr P that they would send the PIN 
reminder by recorded  delivery when he phoned  the third time.  That wasnt right  
John Lewis  Financial Services doesnt send PIN reminders to customers by recorded 
delivery.
The fourth time Mr P called John Lewis Financial Services he said for the first time that hed 
received discs from them. Im satisfied  this information led to John Lewis Financial Services  
looking into why Mr P still hadnt received his PIN. I think its likely 
John Lewis  Financial Services would  have looked into this sooner if Mr P had mentioned  the 
discs in an earlier call. Having looked  into why Mr P still hadnt received his PIN, 
John Lewis  Financial Services discovered that there was a disability marker on his file which  
shouldnt have been there.  John  Lewis Financial Services cant  say whether the marker was 
added by Mr P when he was applying online or later, but I dont think that matters.  The 
Ref: DRN19014902marker meant John  Lewis Financial  Services was sending Mr P his PIN on a disc rather  than 
in a letter.
John Lewis  Financial Services phoned  Mr P the day after his fourth  call to explain what had 
happened. They also sent a PIN reminder  in a letter. Mr P, as a result, finally got his PIN.  I 
can understand it was frustrating for Mr P to be unable to use his card straightaway.  But I 
dont think the delay was excessive. Just over ten days elapsed  between Mr Ps first call and 
John Lewis  Financial Services acknowledging its error. More  importantly, I think  the £100 
offered is a fair reflection  of the impact  of John Lewis Financial Services  error.
Mr P says hes lost out financially. Hes paid over £100 more  than hed have paid if hed 
bought the laptop  and additional  insurance  from the John Lewis store.  But the additional  
insurance hes purchased  covers  things the John  Lewis store  doesnt.  And I can see he 
couldve bought  the laptop  from the John Lewis store  with its additional insurance for less 
than he actually paid,  even after the price  rise at the John Lewis  store. That suggests  to me 
that Mr P decided not to buy the laptop  from the John Lewis store  because, as hes told us, 
hed lost faith in John  Lewis as a whole. So I cant agree hes suffered a financial loss.
Mr P also says he lost out on a month  of an interest  free period because  of this. Mr P didnt 
make any purchases on the credit  card until he had the PIN. He couldve made purchases 
online without the PIN. But hes said he wanted to use the card to buy the laptop in a shop. 
Ive already said John  Lewis Financial Services took just over ten days to recognise and 
acknowledge its error. So I think John Lewis Financial Services  is responsible for the loss of 
that part of the interest  free period. But I dont think the amount of compensation paid by 
John Lewis  Financial Services should be increased because of this. I think the compensation 
already offered adequately covers  the impact  of this and the inconvenience caused  to Mr P.
My final decision
Im aware that John  Lewis Financial Services Ltd has made an offer to pay £100. I 
understand John  Lewis  have already paid this to Mr P. I conclude that such  an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that John Lewis should pay Mr P 
£100 if it hasnt  already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019. 
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1901490