K821x#15Complaint
Mr O says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and twenty-three  high-cost short  
term credit  instalment loans that Sunny provided  to Mr O between  April 2014 and May 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Os complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with instalment loans  1 to 23. Sunny didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr O could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr O, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr O was unlikely to have been  able to make his payments  in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided Mr O with instalment loan 1. 
I say this because  Sunny initially transitioned  Mr O from a facility  which  its own product 
literature said shouldnt  be used  for extended periods to a series of instalment loans which  
had the same effect. In my view,  Mr O was displaying a pattern consistent with someone 
who may have been in financial  difficulty rather than to cover a short term need.
Ref: DRN11789992Sunny continued  lending  to Mr O even when this pattern  was repeated  and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr O had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on instalment loans 1 to 23;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Os credit file as a result  of 
instalment loans 1 and 2. The number of loans provided means  that any information  
recorded about instalment loans 3 to 23 is adverse. So all reference to these loans 
should be removed  from Mr Os credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Os complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1178999