K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc treated  her unfairly  when it defaulted her 
credit card account while she was in prison.  
background
Miss H had a credit  card with Capital One when she went  to prison in January 2017. There 
was a balance  of around £750 outstanding and a family member called Capital One to 
explain the situation. As a result, Capital One stopped  applying  interest or charges to the 
account. In addition, Miss Hs solicitors  were given authority  to discuss  the account around  
this time. 
As Miss H didnt maintain her payments Capital One wrote to her at her home  address  about 
the arrears and its intention to default the account. The account was defaulted in 
August 2017.  
In November 2017 a charity  got in touch  with Capital One on Miss Hs behalf but found it 
difficult to get a response or any information about  her account. The charity sent follow  up 
letters to Capital One. 
Miss H later complained and Capital One responded on 14 March  2018, writing to her prison 
address. Capital One said that itd frozen the interest  and charges on her account  because 
of whatd happened but advised Miss H still needed to make payments towards her credit 
card debt. As no payments were received after January 2017 Capital One took steps  to 
default the account. Capital One didnt agree an error had been  made  so didnt offer to 
remove the default entry from Miss Hs credit  file. 
Miss H referred her complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at it. He felt that 
Capital One shouldve communicated with Miss H better and that there were delays in 
responding to the charity.  But overall he thought Capital Ones  decision  to default the 
account was fair so didnt ask it to take any further action. Miss H didnt agree so her 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss H is upset by Capital Ones decision to default her account. And I 
appreciate that she was in a difficult position with very limited  options at the time. But I need 
to be fair to both sides and while I agree  Capital  One couldve communicated with Miss H 
better, I dont think its decision  to default the credit card was unfair.  
Miss H went to prison in January 2017 and a family member told Capital One which froze  
interest and charges. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances and takes into account 
Miss Hs situation at the time. But Capital One has explained that whilst the interest and 
charges were frozen,  Miss H was still required to make her minimum monthly payment. And 
as no payments were  received after January 2017  it took steps to default the account. 
Miss H has said she thought that when it agreed to freeze the interest  and charges it meant 
no further payments  were  due but I cant see any evidence that Capital One told her or her 
Ref: DRN14284252representatives that. And I have to take into account that Miss Hs statements  show  she was 
using the credit card until she began  her sentence. So I think  Miss H wouldve been aware 
she had an outstanding balance at the time.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I think  
Capital One was trying to be positive and sympathetic when it froze the interest on her credit 
card and I havent found it made  an error when it chose to default  the account.  
I can see there were some areas where I think Capital One couldve done better. I think it 
shouldve been  in a position  to write  to Miss Hs solicitors about the status of the account or 
write to her directly in prison.  I note that Capital One responded to Miss Hs complaint by 
writing to her in prison so its clearly something it can do. 
But even accepting Capital  One couldve done better, I need to consider whether it wouldve  
made a difference. The adjudicator recently  asked Miss H if she couldve afforded to make  
payments to the account if Capital One had written to her in prison about the credit card. 
Miss H says that because  of her situation  she wasnt able to afford  the monthly payments 
and shes sent in some bank statements  as evidence.  Looking at the statements, I agree 
that its unlikely  Miss H wouldve been able to afford the ongoing payment to her credit card. 
That means that even  if Capital  One had written  to Miss H directly about the arrears,  instead 
of to her home address,  she still wouldnt have been  in a position  to afford her payments. 
And that wouldve led to the same conclusion which was Capital One defaulting the account. 
I know Miss Hs said that a family member mightve been able to pay the card for her but Ive 
not seen any evidence to show thats the case.  And Miss H has specifically told us she 
wasnt able to afford the credit card payments. 
I can also see that Capital  One didnt write back to the charity Miss H asked to help in good  
time. But the charity  didnt  contact Capital One until around three months  after the default 
had been applied to the credit card. So even if Capital One had responded  to the charity it 
wouldnt have avoided  the account  being  defaulted.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss H but as she wasnt in a position to maintain her monthly  
payments Im satisfied  Capital One acted fairly by defaulting the credit  card.  I agree that   
Capital One couldve  communicated with Miss H and her representatives  better but Ive not 
found thats impacted the decision to default  the account. As a result, Im not telling     
Capital One to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1428425