K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about the service he received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) after it 
cancelled his debit  card due to suspected fraudulent activity.  
background
Mr K told us he got in touch with TSB in November 2018 after his card was declined when 
he tried to use it. He says TSB told him there had been fraudulent activity on his account and 
that his debit card would be cancelled and a new one sent out. He said TSB sent his new 
card to the wrong  address  and that when  he did get a replacement it was declined again 
because TSB issued a new pin number without  him asking it to. He said,  overall, he was 
without a card for six weeks.
TSB told us that Mr K called it to report potentially fraudulent  activity  in November 2018 and 
that it said it would cancel his card and issue another one. It agreed  that Mr K was without  a 
card for six weeks, but it didnt agree that it had sent his new card to the wrong address. It 
said it failed to request  a new one until 4 December 2018 which  is what  led to the delay in 
him receiving it. It said the only record it has of issuing a new pin number is on 11 December 
2018- possibly after Mr K called to request one. 
Mr K complained to TSB on 4 December  2018 as he hadnt yet received  his card. TSB 
issued a new card on the same day and said it had noted his address incorrectly  up to that 
point. Mr K said he had to visit his branch, which is about six miles away, more than once, 
and had to borrow  money from family. TSB apologised and reimbursed  him for his travel 
expenses and the cost of his calls to it. In total it paid him £61, £50 of which  was 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  It had also previously refunded the money 
that had been, fraudulently, withdrawn from Mr Ks account as well as overdraft charges 
incurred as a result.
Mr K was still unhappy and complained to us. Our investigator thought  TSB should  pay him 
a further £50 but Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He said he 
expected to receive a higher compensation award for all the inconvenience and distress that 
he suffered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  it. 
I understand that Mr K raised a further  complaint relating  to a potentially  fraudulent  
transaction in February 2019 and that TSB treated it as a separate complaint and resolved it 
informally. Our investigator explained  that we are only looking at the events that happened  
between November and December 2018  in this complaint. So, this decision is only about 
that initial complaint,  made in December 2018.
TSB accepts that it had an incorrect address  for Mr K. From what Ive seen this was first 
identified in July 2018 when correspondence  addressed to Mr K was returned to TSB.  TSB 
accepts that it didnt correct this error  until 4 December 2018 when Mr K called to find out 
where his new card was. 
Ref: DRN15888992Mr K said his card was initially sent to a neighbouring property in error which is why he didnt 
receive it. From what Ive seen, this is what TSB told him when he called on 4 December 
2018. But TSB later told us that the card wasnt sent out until 4 December 2018. Based on 
the evidence available  to me, which also includes TSBs system  notes  I think, on balance, 
the new card wasnt issued until 4 December 2018. I say this because I havent seen any 
entries in TSBs notes  about a new card being requested  between  19 November and 4 
December 2018.  And Im also not aware  of Mr Ks card being returned  to TSB (potentially by 
the neighbour). But even if it had sent it to the wrong  address there is no suggestion  that any 
party, other than Mr K, tried to access his account over that time. 
TSB agrees Mr K was without a card for six weeks in total. Mr K said while he was without  a 
card, he had to attend his local branch which is six miles away and he also had to borrow  
money from family members  which  caused him some  embarrassment. He also said he had 
to chase TSB for the card a few times both over the phone and in person at the branch. After  
our investigator provided his view Mr K also told us that he was prevented from buying food, 
visiting his son and that this also ruined a family trip.
I appreciate that TSBs actions, specifically the delay in ordering the new card,  caused Mr K 
some distress and inconvenience. Had TSB issued a new card on 19 November 2018, when 
Mr K first contacted it, and had it updated his contact details then, Mr K wouldve had his 
card three weeks earlier. And though I dont think the card was sent to the wrong address I 
appreciate Mr K may have been  distressed  to be told otherwise. 
TSB has paid Mr K £50 for the delays Mr K experienced over November and December 
2018 and £11 for his expenses. Our investigator  said it should pay a further £50 which  it 
agreed to. And this is separate to the compensation it paid later, for his February 2019 
complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr K feels that this amount  is low, but it is in line with what I would award  in 
cases where similar distress has been suffered. Though Mr K says he had to go through the 
inconvenience of chasing TSB and travelling to the branch I note that he was still able to 
withdraw money from his account- so being  without his card shouldnt  have  prevented him 
from using his account. I appreciate he will be disappointed with my decision but for the 
reasons Ive given  I wont be asking TSB to pay further compensation to what its been 
asked to pay by our investigator. 
Ref: DRN15888993my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint against TSB Bank plc and require it 
to pay him £50 in addition  to what it has already paid him in relation to this complaint.  It must 
pay this within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
*If TSB Bank plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1588899