K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2009. Miss H says MBNA  Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss H cant remember  how the policy was sold to her.  MBNA  says that Miss H applied for 
her card online. MBNA  should  have made Miss H aware she had a choice in taking  out the 
PPI. From  what  I know about how MBNA sold PPI online, Miss H would have been given a 
yes or no option.  MBNA has given  me a document  showing what  Miss H selected when 
she applied  for her card and this shows she selected yes to agree to take out the PPI.
So, I think MBNA made it clear that Miss H didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago.
As this policy was taken  out online with no interaction with an MBNA representative I think 
its unlikely MBNA recommend the PPI to Miss H. So, it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Miss H says she cant 
remember if she would have received any sick pay benefits from her employer,  but the policy  
wouldve paid out alongside any benefits  she might  have received. It would have also 
covered her repayments  if Miss H lost her job. And it doesnt  look like Miss H had any other  
means  such as savings  - so it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. Overall, I dont think  better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. But MBNA  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Miss H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN18037662I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Miss H, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
What MBNA needs to do
MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Miss H the difference 
between what Miss H owes  and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA should also pay Miss H 8%* 
simple interest (15% before April 1993) if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss H.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1803766