K822xComplaint
Mr O complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with The 
Car Finance Company  (2007)  Ltd (CFC) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He complains that the 
repairs werent carried out to a satisfactory standard and that issues  remain. He also 
complains that the repairer damaged the car and that items from his car went  missing.
Background 
Mr O entered into a HPA with CFC in March 2017  to acquire a used car. He says that there 
was initially a problem  with the cars diesel particulate filter (DPF).  The car was taken  for 
repair but after this the car went into limp mode.  He says it was found that a pipe had been 
damaged which he repaired  and the car was then fine for a short  time.  However  after this 
black smoke started to come  out. He says he contacted the dealer which  said it wouldnt 
carry out any further repairs. He then contacted CFC which arranged for an independent 
inspection. 
Mr O says that the inspector only checked  the oil and then said that he wouldnt start the car 
as the DPF wasnt working  correctly.   Mr O says he took the car for an oil change on the 
advice of CFC but this didnt resolve the issue. He says the repairer  told him the car had 
been fitted with a new DPF but he didnt think this was true.
Mr O also complains that while his car was in for repair the glove box had been  taken  out 
and items  had gone missing and the outside  paintwork was damaged. He says that the 
courtesy car he was provided with while his car was in for repair required a new tyre. 
Mr O initially said he wanted to reject  the car due to it not being of satisfactory  quality but 
since he raised his complaint the car has been written off. Therefore Mr O says he wants  the 
outstanding balance on his agreement written  off.
CFC says that Mr O contacted it in June 2017  about mechanical faults with the car and 
reporting that the engine  management light had come on. It says the dealer  collected the car 
and carried out repairs to the DPF and supplied a courtesy car while Mr O was without his 
car.
However, because  Mr O raised concerns about the success of the repairs  CFC arranged  for 
the car to have  an independent inspection. It says this identified  that an oil change  was 
required. It says the inspection  report found  that further testing was required in regard to the 
DPF issue but it didnt  find that the issues were present from the point of supply. By this time 
Mr O had driven the car over 5,000  miles.  CFC says that the dealer offered to cover the cost 
of the oil and filter change  and to inspect the paintwork due to issues raised about damage.  
In September  2017, CFC says Mr O contacted it again to say the paintwork repair wasnt 
satisfactory and he had been quoted  £2,000 for the subsequent repairs. It says it asked for 
evidence of this but this wasnt provided until November when Mr O provided a copy of a 
repair report for the DPF.
CFC says that it has asked for evidence that the repairs failed but this wasnt provided.  It 
says that in January 2018, Mr O said the DPF had been regenerated and that the coil light 
was illuminated. It says the coil light was a new fault. It says Mr O then sent an invoice for a 
replacement water pump and timing  belt. At this time it says the mileage on the car was 
around 97,000.
Ref: DRN12466212Our adjudicator said that he didnt have enough evidence  to conclude that the car wasnt fit 
for purpose  at the point of supply. However  he didnt think  that Mr O had received  the 
service he should  have in regard to the courtesy car. He noted that Mr O had to pay for a 
new tyre and although  this was reimbursed he said Mr O had been caused inconvenience. 
Our adjudicator contacted CFC about  this issue and it offered to refund Mr O two weeks  
worth of payments  to reflect the time he was without his car and had the courtesy car. Our 
adjudicator thought this was reasonable.
Mr O didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He reiterated that the car experienced issues 
shortly after acquisition and was then damaged while in for repair.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O entered into a HPA in March 2017  to acquire  a used car. Under the regulations,  with 
particular reference  to the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), CFC can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  Satisfactory  quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. At the time of acquisition, Mr Os car 
was around nine years old and had been  driven around 78,000 miles.
Mr O contacted CFC in June 2017  to say that his car was with the dealer for repairs. I do not 
have any information  to say when Mr O first raised  the issue with the dealer but as the car 
was in for repair I find it reasonable that at this stage Mr O had accepted  repairs  as a 
remedy to the cars issues.  At this stage  the issue was identified  as being with the DPF.
Had the repairs carried out to the DPF in June 2017  resolved the issue then this would have 
been a reasonable remedy. However Mr O says that the issue  wasnt fully resolved. He also 
complained about damage being  caused  to his car and items  going missing.
I can understand why Mr O was upset  at the issues he experienced shortly after acquiring 
his car, however  in order to uphold this complaint  I need to be satisfied that the faults with 
the car were present  from the point of supply  and that the attempted  repairs were 
unsuccessful. In this case  I understand Mr O collected the car early which  may have limited 
the repair attempt.  
Given Mr Os concerns  about the success of the repair  I find it reasonable that CFC 
arranged for an independent inspection.  Unfortunately due to an issue  with the oil a road test 
wasnt able to be carried out and the report is inconclusive in regard to the DPF. It said that it 
was unable to confirm if the issue with the DPF was present  from the point of supply but 
noted that DPF issues are normally the result of driving style and the type of conditions the 
vehicle is used under. 
At the time of the inspection the car had been  driven  over 83,000  (around  5,000 miles since 
the start of the HPA). Given  this, the nature of the issue,  the comments  in the inspection 
report and that the car passed  a MOT  in March 2017, I do not find that I have enough  to say 
the issues with the DPF were present  or developing at the point of supply.
I note that a shortly  after the repair was attempted Mr O went to a local garage  and an issue 
with a pipe was identified. This was repaired after which Mr O said the car was fine. An offer 
Ref: DRN12466213was made  to cover the cost of the pipe. I understand Mr O says that following this there were 
further issues with the DPF but as I havent  been able to say the issue  with the DPF was 
present or developing at the point  of supply I do not find I can hold CFC liable for this. 
The inspection report did note that an oil change  was required and I understand that an oil 
an filter change was undertaken at no cost to Mr O. I find this reasonable.
Mr O raised further issues with the car including the coil light coming  on and having to 
replace the water pump  and timing belt. However,  without further evidence  to show  these 
issues were present or developing at the point of supply I do not find I have enough to 
uphold this part of Mr Os complaint. 
Overall, I do not find that the evidence is sufficient to say that Mr Os car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As Mr Os car has been  written off, further 
inspection isnt now possible.
The other issues Mr O has raised  are in respect to damage caused while  his car was in for 
repair, items going missing, and the quality of the courtesy car he was provided with.
Based on the information provided it appears that Mr Os car was resprayed after the repairs 
were carried  out but Mr O says this wasnt to a satisfactory standard. While I understand why 
Mr O is upset by the service he has received from the dealer I also note that an offer was 
made in regard to an inspection  of the bodywork and that Mr O had said he would send 
through quotes. It doesnt appear that this happened  and given the circumstances of this 
case I do not find that I can say that CFC is required to do anything  further  in regard to this 
issue.
In regard to the missing  items I do not find I can comment  further  on this and note that this is 
a service issue with the dealer and I do not find this is something  CFC is responsible for.
In regard to the courtesy car, I do find that Mr O wasnt provided with the service  he 
shouldve been.  He had to replace a tyre and while this cost was reimbursed he did suffer 
distress and inconvenience because of the issue. CFC has agreed to refund  Mr O for the 
two weeks he had the courtesy  car while his car was in for repair.  I find this a reasonable 
offer.
Overall, I understand that Mr O is upset by the experience he had with his car. However  he 
acquired a used car and it is possible that things  will go wrong  within a short period of use. I 
do not find that the evidence supplied is sufficient for me to be able to say the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Therefore I am only upholding this complaint in 
regard to the issues with the courtesy  car.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd should, as it has agreed, 
refund Mr O two weeks worth of payment, totalling  £98.45 to reflect  the issues  Mr O 
experienced with the courtesy car he was provided with while his car was being repaired. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Jane Archer
Ref: DRN12466214ombudsman
Ref: DRN1246621