K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W has complained that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any 
commission it received from their mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) premiums 
for the policy they took out in 1990.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  about commission. 
Thats because Mr and Mrs W have previously complained about the mis-sale of their MPPI 
policy, and an ombudsman has already issued a final decision on this. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, so Ill 
explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where MPPI  was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MPPI policy  more than 50% of the MPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  was taken out in 
1990 and ended in 2003. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the 
MPPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Ref: DRN12858932Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1285893