K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limiteds (Jupiter) handling of his request 
to release the funds from his investment and close his account.  
background
In 2013 Mr Ns personal circumstances meant he no longer had a permanent  address. He 
made Jupiter  aware of this and they accepted he would  continue with a care of address. 
They also let him know that he may need to provide  further verification of his details if he 
wanted to make a withdrawal. 
In September  2018 Mr N contacted Jupiter as he wanted to withdraw  funds from his stocks  
and shares ISA and then close his account. Jupiter  sent Mr N a withdrawal form and asked 
him to provide  proof  of identity and address.
On 23 October 2018 Jupiter received Mr Ns completed withdrawal form. The form showed 
that Mr N was of no fixed abode,  but he gave a care of address. It also requested  that the 
withdrawal be transferred to his bank account.  As the address provided  on the form was 
different to the one they held for him, Jupiter didnt proceed with his request. They  wrote  to 
Mr N to explain why and sent him a change of address  form to complete and return. 
On 30 October 2018 Jupiter received a second  withdrawal form along with a certified copy of 
Mr Ns passport. This form gave a care of address which  did match their records.  It also 
recorded that Mr N would like to be sent a cheque rather than a bank transfer.  
Jupiter followed Mr Ns instructions the same day and his investment was sold for around  
£16,000. They wrote  to Mr N on 2 November 2018  to let him know his investment  had been  
sold and that theyd accepted his proof of identity. But they still needed to verify  his address 
before they could  release  the funds. Jupiter also explained that it may be necessary to verify 
his bank account details and asked  that Mr N call them to discuss  how to proceed.
Jupiter wrote to Mr N again  on 7 December 2018  having also tried to contact him by phone  
on the number  they held.  They reiterated  their request and included information  on suitable 
documentation he could  provide to verify  his address along with a pre-paid envelope. In a 
letter dated  19 January 2019  Mr N provided  a copy of his driving licence as proof of address 
(at the address Jupiter held for him). But his covering letter  said that the best address to 
contact him at was the one hed provided  on his original withdrawal form.
On 4 February 2019 Jupiter wrote  to Mr N and explained that as Mr N didnt have a 
permanent address, they would release the funds via a bank  transfer, not a cheque, and that 
they would  first require  verification of his bank account to do this. 
On 19 February 2019 Jupiter received a voided  cheque from Mr N to verify his bank account. 
The funds were then credited  to his account  on 25 February 2019.  Mr N was unhappy  with 
how long it took to get his funds and says hes suffered  a financial loss, so he referred his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Jupiter had 
acted fairly  and didnt  need to do any more. As he still disagrees, Mr N has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
Ref: DRN11358622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this is likely  to be disappointing  for 
Mr N, so let me explain why. 
In the course  of carrying out their business, Jupiter  have  to comply with a range of rules  and 
regulations. These are designed,  amongst other things, to make  sure they deal with the right 
person and prevent fraud or money  laundering. Its ultimately for Jupiter to decide on their 
own procedures to comply with the various  requirements. 
Jupiter followed Mr Ns instructions to sell his investment  on 30 October 2018. I dont think  
their decision  to not do so a week earlier  when  they received his initial  form was 
unreasonable, as the address provided at that time didnt match what  they held on file. And 
in any case Jupiter have shown that the value of the investment increased  between those 
dates, so I dont think  this has caused Mr N a financial detriment.
I understand Mr N is unhappy  that it took until February 2019 to receive  his funds and that 
he feels Jupiter could  have set out their requirements more  clearly and done so sooner. I 
sympathise with Mr N and his position,  but I dont  think  Jupiter  have treated him unfairly.  
Jupiter let Mr N know what  sorts  of documentation  they would accept and acted promptly  
when they received what they needed. 
Our investigator asked  Jupiter why they decided to insist on a bank transfer rather  than a 
cheque. They explained that when Mr N provided  his driving licence  as proof of address, his 
covering letter explained that it was best to contact him at a different address.  Given this, 
they decided not to send  a cheque and to complete a bank transfer instead, which required 
verification of Mr Ns bank details. 
I dont think Jupiters decision to proceed  that way was unreasonable. By paying directly into 
a verified bank account, the uncertainty around  an address (due to Mr Ns personal 
circumstances) was to a certain extent mitigated. And again, once they were satisfied with 
verification of the bank details, they acted promptly to release  the funds. 
I know Mr N feels  that had Jupiter insisted on a bank transfer  at the start,  the transfer would 
have happened  sooner.  But I think Jupiter were only prompted to make  that decision when  
they received  the conflicting information from Mr N. That being  his driving licence showing 
one address but the covering letter stating it was better to contact him at a different address. 
So I dont  think not making that decision sooner is unreasonable  or unfair.  
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Mr N, and I can see that he has been  honest  
and up front with Jupiter from the start about his lack of a permanent address. But looking at 
this complaint as a whole, I dont think there is evidence  to support that Jupiter  have caused  
undue delays or have treated Mr N unfairly. So Im not going to ask that they take any further  
action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN11358623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1135862