K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined his pet insurance claims and added a 
specific exclusion to the policy. My references  to Allianz include its agents.
background 
Mr M bought  pet insurance for his cat on-line to start 8 February  2018.  Allianz  is the insurer. 
The policy gives cover  for life, subject to the policy terms and limits, while  the policy  is in 
force. Mr M claimed for treatment  of his cats nasal polyp  from March 2018.
Allianz declined  the claims. It said the claims were  for issues  related to respiratory  problems 
which Mr Ms cats vets notes showed began the day before the policy started. The policy 
didnt cover pre-existing conditions so there  was no cover. Allianz also added  a specific  
exclusion to the policy for claims resulting from or connected to respiratory system disorders, 
effective from the start of the policy.
Mr M complained to Allianz that the claims shouldnt have been for a nasal polyp  and werent 
for respiratory issues as his cat had a problem  in her ear. Allianz spoke to Mr Ms vet who 
told Allianz that during the exploratory surgery in June 2018 no polyp was seen but instead 
pus in the middle  ear was found  and resolved.  Allianz still declined the claim as Mr Ms vets 
notes said  the  upper respiratory tract infection  tracked up to the bulla (middle  ear) causing  
the otitis media  (inflammatory  disease  of the middle  ear). Allianzs independent  vet spoke  to 
Mr Ms vet who said the otitis media  could have been caused by ascending infection from 
the pharynx but it could be something else.
Mr M complained to us. He said his vet told Allianz  that a middle  ear infection has no relation 
to the respiratory  system so Allianz should  pay the claims. Also,  his cats snuffly nose before 
the policy started was due to a cold, which wasnt a medical condition, so the exclusion 
should be removed.  
During our investigation Allianz sent us further  evidence; the cats updated medical  history  
from Mr Ms new vets and its vets opinion as to why the cats pre-existing breathing 
problems were caused by an infected  polyp in the throat,  the infection  then progressing  to 
the middle ear.
Allianz also said that now the condition causing  the problems before the policy  started had 
been diagnosed as a polyp it would amend the specific exclusion for respiratory  system 
disorders to an exclusion for polyps.
Ultimately our investigator thought Allianzs  decline  of the claims and its decision to add the 
revised narrower specific exclusion was fair.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said he didnt know  a polyp would 
lead to an ear infection and he didn't think a cold was something he had to tell Allianz about 
when he applied for the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11421382I dont uphold this complaint.  I have to decide whether Allianz fairly and reasonably declined 
the claims and added a specific exclusion to the policy and I think it did. Ill explain  why.
pre-existing condition exclusion
The policy is clear theres no cover for pre-existing conditions.  The policy definition of pre-
existing condition includes  an illness that first showed clinical  signs or is caused  by, relates 
to, or results  from  an illness or clinical sign Mr Ms cat had before the policy  started.
The vets notes of 9 February 2018  say the cat had snuffly breathing for the last two days,  
so before the policy started.
The vets notes of 31 May 2018 say the cat had a large polyp  visible on retraction  of soft 
palate polyp  visible bulging into/through TM of R ear.
The vets notes also show that as the cats respiratory problem worsened Mr M was advised 
his cat should have an operation to open  up the middle ear as she also had symptoms  of 
middle ear disease. During the operation, the polyp, which had been  seen behind the soft 
palate, was no longer  visible. The vets notes at the time of the operation in June 2018 say:
likely upper respiratory tract infection  that tracked up to bulla  causing otitis media, the 
pus has been swabbed  but viral testing could  also be considered as the initiating factor for 
urti. could  still be a polyp  we havent  seen?
Mr Ms original  vet wrote to Allianz that there had been some confusion over the insurance  
claims. She said the vets fees to 4 June 2018 would include treatment for respiratory 
problems (including  nasopharyngeal polyp).  She confirmed she had thought  the cats ear 
infection might be related  to the respiratory noise and polyp but at surgery  there was no 
evidence of a polyp but a significant amount of pus in the inner ear and the subsequent 
diagnosis for the ear condition was otitis media.  She said the surgery  should have been filed 
as a new claim for otitis media, which she believed to be unrelated  to the respiratory  
symptoms the cat still had at the time. So I understand why Mr M thought his cats breathing 
problems before the policy  started was unrelated to the middle ear infection.
However, from the notes  from Mr Ms cats new vet its clear the cats breathing problems 
and to some  extent ear problems were still ongoing. In November 2018 the new vet 
suggested to Mr M that his cat have an operation to see if a polyp was present. In April 2019 
the operation  revealed a large  retropharyngeal polyp  with quite a bit of pus around the 
mass. After the operation Mr M reported  to the new vet that his cats breathing was fine.
Allianz vets has given a detailed  opinion.  In summary, she says:
the middle ear communicates with the pharynx  (back  of the throat)  by the Eustachian  
tube, and infection travels  from the pharynx to the middle ear through that tube
in young cats with no external ear disease,  such a Mr Ms cat, middle ear infection  Is 
usually the result  of a respiratory infection.  The vet sent comments  from the 
International Society of Feline  medicine to support that opinion
Mr Ms cats breathing problems were  caused by an infected polyp in her throat. In 
the absence of any other  source  of infection, which isnt present in Mr Ms cat, it was 
very likely the infection progressed  to the middle  ear. So the middle ear otitis was 
linked to the breathing problems.
Ref: DRN11421383On the overall  vets evidence I think its more likely than not that there was a link between 
the cats infected  polyp,  which caused her breathing problems, and her middle ear infection. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show there was another  cause which was more likely.
I accept that Mr M didnt know a polyp  would lead to an ear infection. But Im satisfied that 
Allianz fairly  declined the claims on the basis that the middle ear infection  was related to a 
pre-existing condition that showed  clinical signs before the policy started. 
  
specific policy exclusion
There are circumstances  where I think an insurer can fairly  add and back date an exclusion 
on the policy, which is in line with the relevant legalisation. Very briefly, a consumer needs to 
have failed to give a reasonable response to a clear question asked at the time the policy  
was taken out. And the insurer needs to show that it would have added the exclusion from 
the start of the policy had it known the true position.
Mr M says he didn't think a cold was something  he had to tell Allianz  about  when  he applied 
for the policy. I dont  need to decide whether  he should have reasonably told Allianz or make 
a decision about  whether  Allianz acted fairly in initially  adding  the exclusion for respiratory 
system disorders. Thats  because now the cause  of the cats breathing  problem has been 
diagnosed Allianz has amended that exclusion  to a much narrower exclusion for polyps.  
I think Allianz can fairly add the exclusion for polyps.  Its clear from the overall  evidence  that 
the cat had an upper respiratory  tract infection  due to a polyp and those symptoms were  
seen before the policy started. The polyps exclusion reflects the pre-existing condition.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1142138