K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a  car purchased  with finance from 
Decidebloom Limited (trading as Stoneacre).
background
In January 2-019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered  into a  finance  agreement with 
Stoneacre.
Mr S is unhappy about the following issues:
When he returned the car to Stoneacre for agreed works, not all of these were 
completed. Mr S feels that he didnt receive  good customer  service.
He hasnt been able to change  the annual mileage limit after entering into the 
agreement despite being advised by the salesman  that he could do this.
A safety  recall was issued on the car prior to the point of supply which Mr S feels 
Stoneacre mustve been aware of.
Our investigator explained to Mr S that this service was only able to investigate the part of 
the complaint  which related to annual  mileage and that the other two complaint  points  
related to the sale of the car itself and the after sales service, neither of which  were  
financially regulated.  In relation to the complaint  about the annual  mileage, our investigator 
said that based on the available evidence, Mr A ought to have known that the contract 
mileage was set at the outset of the agreement.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed told the salesman that an annual  mileage  allowance of 
10,000 miles wasnt  enough and that the salesman told him he could  change  this after hed 
signed the agreement.  Mr S said he signed the agreement on that basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive restricted my final decision  to the complaint point about  the annual  mileage because this 
is the only part of Mr Ss complaint which this service is able to look at.
Mr S has said that he feels that the finance  agreement was mis-sold to him because he was 
advised that he could alter the annual mileage at any point.
In order to uphold  this complaint, I would need  to be satisfied that the salesman  made  an 
untrue statement of fact which induced Mr S to enter into the agreement.
The dealership hasnt provided  any file notes or other records of the discussions which  took 
place with Mr S. It hasnt been possible to obtain a statement from the salesman. I wasnt  
present so I cant be certain of what was discussed.  In these circumstances, I need to look at 
the available  contemporaneous documents as the best evidence  of what was likely to have 
been discussed and agreed  between the parties.
Ref: DRN17694072Ive reviewed the documents which Mr S signed when he entered  into the agreement. The 
compliance documents show that Mr S was provided with all of the key information  about the 
agreement, including the mileage allowance. The Hire Purchase agreement sets out the 
annual mileage and the excess mileage charges. Theres nothing in any of the documents  
which suggests that the annual mileage limit wasnt clear, or that it could be amended  at a 
later date. Mr S has signed all of these  documents and in doing so has agreed to be legally 
bound by the terms.
Ive taken account of what  Mr S has said about  the discussion he had with the salesman 
about the annual mileage  but I think its clear from the documents that the mileage is fixed at 
the start of the agreement. Further, if Mr S had said to the salesman  that he needed more 
than 10,000 miles per year, I cant think of any reason why the salesman  wouldnt have  
submitted a finance proposal based on whatever  mileage Mr S required.  The mileage limit is 
directly linked to the amount of monthly  payment so if Mr S had wanted a higher mileage 
allowance his monthly payments would have been  higher.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that the agreement was mis-sold. So I 
wont be asking Stoneacre to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1769407