K820x#14Complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax  (BOS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, and  subject to its exclusions  
and limitations. It offered  to repay £657.28  a month towards Mr Ws mortgage  balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £34.83 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed. He told us he was entitled to six months  full sick pay and 
redundancy pay. He also had death in service cover through  his employer. Mr W has said he 
had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in May 2004.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN14806562Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN14806563other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN14806564BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ws mortgage application form with had a separate section for PPI. 
Mr W has signed under the statement Yes, I would like to take advantage  of Mortgage 
Repayment Insurance. He has then gone  on to complete  and sign a separate PPI 
application form  which set out the cost and benefit for him. Theres  nothing on either one of 
these forms suggesting  the PPI was compulsory. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says it provided advice during this sale and looking at what happened when BOS sold 
Mr W the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr W. The adviser had information about some of Mr Ws financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application. A PPI application  form was completed to try and establish 
whether Mr W had a need for the policy  by asking questions about  his wider circumstances 
such as any health  issues and existing means   I dont think  it did enough to ensure the PPI 
was suitable. I say this because  BOS  didnt for example ask if Mr W had another other 
means of making  his repayments if hed found  himself unexpectedly out of work, such as 
employee benefits. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given  his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ws ability to continue to 
meet his mortgage  repayments would have been  put under strain  if Mr W was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay benefits he says he would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr W has told us about  a 
condition he had before the sale. But this policy didnt exclude  claims for known 
Ref: DRN14806565health issues. So I dont  think  having this condition wouldve stopped  him from buying 
this policy. And he doesnt appear  to be caught  by the other specific  terms and 
conditions on limitations and exclusions. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr W be disabled or unemployed 
for 30 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Ws circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr W be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr W sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BOS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied that Mr W was given a broad description of what the policy was intended to 
cover (that is that the policy would protect  his payments if Mr W was unable to work through 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr W would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
The evidence from the time of sale shows us that BOS gave sufficient information  about the 
actual monthly benefit and the actual cost.  This was set out in his PPI application from.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt show us that BOS  gave sufficient  information  
about the exclusions or limitations before Mr W agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr W all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN14806566-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had BOS  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, Mr 
W would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN14806567As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr W was given  about  the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr W says he had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out, the policy didnt  exclude  cover for existing medical conditions. And I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve  been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions. So I still think he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking out the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr W was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Mr W that any claim he made would be limited to a 24-month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 24 months  
Ref: DRN14806568was a longer period than Mr W would have received full sick pay for and his statutory 
redundancy entitlement was likely to be significantly less than 24 months  income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr W would  still have  thought a policy that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr W be unable  to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Ws sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr W was made redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
Ref: DRN14806569policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks BOS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
[date] when providing information  about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1480656