K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Audi Financial Services, terminating  his finance agreement with them.
background
In May 2018  Mr M signed a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS to fund a car hire. 
In February 2019  VWFS  sent him a default  notice. This notice explained  that his account 
was three  months  in arrears. It said that if the arrears werent  paid off by 27 February  the 
agreement could be terminated in line with the terms of Mr Ms agreement.
In March 2019 when there  were still arrears on the account VWFS therefore sent Mr Ms 
account to a debt recovery  department and told him they would seek  to terminate the 
agreement; repossess the car and/or seek settlement in full.
Mr M said he hadnt been aware  of the problem.  He explained hed been working away  and 
didnt receive any letters  he also said his phone had no reception  whilst he was away. But 
VWFS said theyd  made several  attempts to contact him by phone, and letter,  but as the 
account still remained in arrears they still thought they were right to terminate the agreement 
and seek settlement of the account.
Mr M therefore referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his view.  
He noted that the terms of Mr Ms agreement allowed  VWFS to terminate  it if payments 
werent received.  He noted that there  had been missed payments and he thought  Mr M 
should have been aware of them because:
they would have been highlighted  on his bank statement; 
hed seen copies  of several letters sent to Mr M to remind him about the missed 
payments and;
VWFSs system notes  explained  that theyd called and emailed Mr M on 12 March  
2019 ahead  of their decision  to terminate  the contract. 
So he didnt think VWFS had done  anything wrong.  But Mr M still didnt  agree, so he asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN16398312The terms of Mr Ms finance agreement with VWFS  explained that:
2.5 Missing  payments could have severe  consequences It may lead to us serving  a 
default notice  on you, on the expiry of which we may terminate the agreement 
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  provides  guidelines on when defaults should 
be recorded. They say that a default should  be recorded when an account is three  months in 
arrears and they would  expect  an account  to be defaulted before it was six months  in 
arrears. 
When VWFS issued  its default notice in February  2019 the account  was three months  in 
arrears and, as the arrears hadnt been cleared  by the end of that month, I dont think they 
were unreasonable to terminate the agreement.
Mr M says he didnt  know about VWFSs intentions  as he was away  with work  and had no 
phone reception.  The account  had been in arrears since August 2018 and Ive seen several  
letters sent by VWFS advising Mr M of the arrears. The address they were sent to is the one 
we have on file for Mr M so I think its most  likely they were sent. I think  its also likely Mr M 
would have been aware of the returned direct debits as they would have been  identified on 
his bank statements.
I can also see that VWFS called Mr M on 12 March 2019, before the account was 
terminated. They also emailed him. Ive checked the contact number from VWFSs  system 
notes and I can see its the same as the one we have for Mr M and that the email address is 
also the same. So I think there is sufficient evidence that VWFS  communicated effectively 
with Mr M and I dont think they were  therefore  wrong to terminate the agreement  when  they 
did. Im not asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1639831