K821x#15complaint
Mr R says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL),  irresponsibly  lent to him. He 
also says that PDL didnt  provide him with certain information about  his loans.
background
This complaint is about five short term loans PDL provided to Mr R between 
March 2016 and November 2016.  Loan 1 was repayable by one repayment, Loans 2 and 4 
were repayable by three monthly  repayments, Loan 3 was repayable by four monthly  
repayments and Loan 5 was repayable  by 12 monthly repayments.  
Mr R also complained about certain  information provided to him by PDL about,  in summary, 
the cost of borrowing, loan repayments,  how to complain and the continuous payment 
authority. 
Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 20/3/16 15/4/16 £150 Around £181
2. 19/4/16 15/7/16 £300 Around £157
3. 16/7/16 14/10/16 £450 Around £220
4. 14/10/16 17/11/16 £450 Around £265
5. 17/11/16 Outstanding £1,100 Around £230
PDLs final response letter said that it had carried out thorough affordability checks. It also 
explained that it had given  Mr R an adequate explanations document  before each loan was 
provided as well as a credit agreement  and terms and conditions which provided information 
about the loan repayments and the continuous  payment authority. PDL also offered in the 
letter to reduce Mr Rs outstanding  balance  to £223.70 to be repaid by an affordable 
repayment plan.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint about Loans 4 and 5. He said that by Loan 4 Mr R 
had shown signs he was struggling to repay his previous loans. And by Loan 5 Mr Rs 
overall pattern  of borrowing  suggested that he had become persistently reliant on short term 
loans. The adjudicator also noted what PDL had said about the provision of information  in its 
final response letter although he couldnt see evidence of information about  how to make a 
complaint. 
PDL disagreed. The lender said that Loan 4 and the previous loans had been repaid on time 
or early which wasnt a sign of someone struggling  to repay  loans. It had asked Mr R 
additional questions  before Loan  4 and Mr R had confirmed that he wasnt  using the loan to 
pay off other  loans. He had said that he wanted  the loan for home  improvements. PDL again 
offered to reset the outstanding balance on Loan 5 to £223.70 which  would wipe out the rest 
of the balance due of £1,000.33 once it had been repaid. 
Mr R rejected PDLs offer. He also sent this service a copy  of his complaint communications 
with PDL.
Ref: DRN10965732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive first considered the aspect of Mr Rs complaint about certain  information  provided to him 
by PDL.  I think that the documentation PDL provided to him contained reasonable 
information about the matters hes raised in his complaint. Although  the adjudicator couldnt 
see evidence of information about how to make a complaint,  I can see that there is 
information about this in the credit agreement terms and conditions. 
The credit agreements said that Mr R should  only sign the agreements  if he wanted to be 
legally bound by their terms. I can see that Mr R signed all the agreements.  I think  that if he 
needed more  information about  certain  matters, he could have raised this before signing the 
agreements. So I dont think PDL has acted unfairly on this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
The second  aspect of Mr Rs complaint  is with regard to PDLs  affordability assessments. 
For all of Mr Rs loans the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN10965733Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
PDL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr R. It asked  him for details of his income and 
expenditure. PDL said that Mr Rs declared  monthly income was between  £1,150  and 
£1,419 for all the loans. And it calculated  that Mr Rs disposable income was between £368  
and £944 for all the loans.
PDL also checked Mr Rs credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL has provided us with a 
very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit score, that hed had no 
delinquent loans or defaults in the previous three  years and that he wasnt bankrupt  or in an 
individual voluntary arrangement. So I dont think that the results of these checks should 
have caused additional concerns to PDL.
I cant see that weve received a copy of Mr Rs credit  report.  So I cant  say there  were  any 
entries on the credit report which might  have caused the lender concern. But Im aware that 
when a lender  carries out a credit search,  the information it sees  doesnt usually provide the 
same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A 
lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers  credit  file, or some  data might  be 
missing or anonymised.  Im also aware that not all payday and short  term lenders  report  to 
the same  credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between  the 
information provided by PDLs credit check and Mr Rs actual  situation.
I think that the checks PDL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 to 3 were proportionate.  I 
can see that the repayments that Mr R needed to make  were relatively modest  compared  to 
the income that he declared to PDL. The highest  repayment for these loans was £220.50. I 
dont think the repayment amounts were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused 
Mr R financial  difficulty.
So given Mr Rs repayment  amounts for Loans 1 to 3, what was apparent  about  his 
circumstances at the time, and that these  were his first three loans with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr R provided or the information 
PDL shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I dont think PDL was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr R.
I note that Loan  3 was repaid early and Mr R borrowed  Loan 4 on the same  day. The loan 
amount was again £450 but because it was to be repaid  over three  months, the highest loan 
repayment had increased to £265.20  which was his highest repayment so far. 
Ref: DRN10965734I can see that from Loan 2 Mr R had been provided  with a new loan within  a short period of 
repaying a previous one. Loan 2 was double the amount of Loan 1 and Loans 3 and 4 were 
three times as much as Loan 1. All this suggests  that Mr R was most likely unable  to repay 
his previous loan without  taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in his 
finances. By Loan  4 I think a pattern of increasing  and high frequency  borrowing had been 
established. I think the pattern of Mr Rs borrowing shows  that there was a significant risk 
that Mr R would be unable to meet his repayments  for Loan 4 because he was showing 
signs that he was struggling to repay  his borrowing in a sustainable  way. So I think PDL was 
wrong to approve  Loan 4.
I note that PDL said that Mr R had repaid  Loan 4 and his previous loans either  early  or on 
time and that this wasnt a sign of someone struggling to repay  his loans. But repaying  
previous loans isnt on its own a sign of good loan management. This is because a 
consumer may have used  unsustainable sources such  as taking out a further  loan to cover 
the gap left in their finances in order to repay  a previous  one. It appears that might  be the 
case here. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of PDLs  lending history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which PDL should reasonably have seen  that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
Loan 5. I say this because:
By Loan  5, Mr R had taken out five loans  from PDL in around eight months.
Mr R wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed PDL. Loan 5 was for 
£1,100 and this was the biggest  amount hed asked to borrow.  It appeared that he 
had ongoing  and long term money problems and his need  for extra  cash appeared to 
be escalating. And Mr R had paid large  amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a 
debt to PDL over an extended period.
PDL ought to have  realised it was more likely than not Mr R was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances each time and 
that Mr Rs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.  
Loan 5 was to be repaid over twelve months.  So Mr R was committing to make his 
repayments over a far longer period  than his previous loans.
I think that Mr R lost out because these  loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs 
indebtedness by allowing  his to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time. And the length of time that Mr R had been taking out short  term 
loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  this complaint in part in relation to Loans 4 and 5 and PDL should put 
things right as shown below.
Id also remind PDL to deal with Mr R positively and sympathetically in working with him to 
come to a suitable repayment plan for any balance outstanding. 
Ref: DRN10965735my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr R paid on Loan 4 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
2.Refund all interest  and charges Mr R paid on Loan 5 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 5;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  5 and 
pay any balance to Mr R; 
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan  4 from Mr Rs credit file; and
6.Remove all entries about Loan 5 from Mr Rs credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If PDL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  3 March 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1096573