K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  refused her claim for a mammogram  
under her medical  insurance especially as they paid for a similar claim a year before. Shes 
also disappointed  with the customer service she received.  
background
I issued my provisional decision, which is attached  to, and forms part of, this final decision in 
November 2018.  In this decision I explained  I thought that it was fair for AXA to decline the 
claim and the compensation AXA offered was reasonable. I asked  Ms B and AXA to reply  
with any more comments or evidence by the 12 December 2018. 
AXA responded to say they accepted my provisional  decision. 
Ms B responded to say that she didnt agree with the decision. She said:
-In her first claim with AXA she didnt have  any symptoms,  but theyd paid the claim. 
Her second procedure was a follow up ordered by her consultant,  so they should  pay 
this. 
-The service shes received from AXA is terrible including having to wait at hospital  
before AXA accept her claims and AXA closing service complaints  without  her 
agreement. Shes unhappy with the £100  compensation thats been offered  in 
recognition of this. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
medical insurance claim
Ive looked at Ms Bs points, but Im afraid I dont agree. Ive thought about Ms Bs argument  
that for the first claim she didnt have  any symptoms prior to the mammogram. Ms B accepts 
that the consultant found a shadow on an ultrasound and this is why she was referred for a 
mammogram  and Im satisfied that a shadow  on an ultrasound  is a symptom. Even if this 
isnt the case,  as I explained in my provisional  decision  insurance  companies have a 
responsibility to deal with each claim  on its own merits. 
Ive also considered Ms Bs point that the second procedure  was a follow up ordered  by her 
consultant  but this doesnt  change my opinion that Ms B didnt have any symptoms prior to 
the second procedure. So for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional  decision I think  its 
fair for AXA to apply  the exclusion and decline the claim.
service provided by AXA
Ive reconsidered  Ms Bs points about  the service AXA provided, but it doesnt change  my 
opinion. As I explained in my provisional decision I think  the service from AXA could have 
been better  but I think £100 compensation in recognition of this is fair and reasonable. 
I wont be asking AXA to do anything  further  here. 
Ref: DRN11210032my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Ms B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  refused her claim for a mammogram under  her 
medical insurance especially as they paid for a similar  claim a year before. Shes also disappointed 
with the customer  service  shes received. 
background
Ms B has a medical  insurance policy with AXA and contacted them  to make a claim  for a 
mammogram and consultation. Around one year earlier Ms B had successfully claimed  for similar 
procedures through AXA. And although no diagnosis  had been  made  she says her consultant advised  
her to have a follow up mammogram 12 months later. 
AXA said Ms B that because Ms B didnt have any symptoms they regarded her mammogram as 
preventative treatment or screening tests which  arent included in the policy. They  refused the claim. 
Ms B wasnt happy and said that theyd  paid a similar  claim one year earlier. AXA argued that the 
Ref: DRN11210033mammogram and other procedures were paid for in 2017 because  an undiagnosed finding was 
discovered and the screening was paid for to determine if any eligible treatment was needed.
Ms B later also complained  about poor service shed received and AXA offered her £100 
compensation for these failings. 
Ms B didnt  agree with AXAs findings so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Bs complaint. They thought  AXA had been fair in declining 
Ms B claim, but thought the service theyd  offered wasnt satisfactory  and said they should  pay Ms B 
£150 in compensation.  
Neither AXA nor Ms B agreed  with our investigators assessment.  AXA felt the £100 they had 
previously offered was sufficient compensation for the service failings. 
Ms B said:
-The exclusion says only preventative screening  is excluded not diagnostic screening; which 
her screening  is.
-AXA hadnt been consistent in applying  their policy terms, as theyve paid out for last years  
diagnostic tests when there werent any symptoms. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come  to a slightly different conclusion to the 
investigator. 
Ill explain my reasons below. 
AXA says its entitled  to decline Ms Bs claim because it was excluded from the policy. Ive reviewed 
the policy  handbook  that AXA gave Ms B when she took out the policy. The exclusion that AXA have 
relied upon  is:
4.14 Genetic  tests, preventative treatment and screening  tests
What is not covered for genetic tests, preventative treatment and screening tests?
We do not pay for:
-Preventative treatment, such as preventative mastectomy
-Routine preventative examinations and check ups
-Genetic screening  tests to check whether:
-You have  a medical condition when  you have no symptoms
-You have  a genetic  risk of developing a medical  condition in the future
-There is a genetic risk of you passing on a medical  condition
-Genetic tests to identify  a medical  condition where the result of a test isnt proven to change  
the course of treatment
-Any other preventative treatment or screening tests to see whether  you have a medical  
condition if you do not have symptoms
-vaccinations
Specifically AXA have  stated theyre relying on Any other preventative  treatment or screening tests to 
see whether  you have  a medical  condition if you do not have symptoms.  
Ref: DRN11210034Ms B didnt  have any symptoms, and the mammogram was to see whether or not she had a medical 
condition. So it fell within the exclusion that AXA relied  on. Ive thought about  Ms Bs points,  but I dont  
think its unreasonable for AXA to apply the exclusion.  I say this because  Im satisfied the policy is 
clear in stating that all types of screening  tests  are excluded if a customer  doesnt have any 
symptoms  which Ms B doesnt dispute. And I dont think this changes, irrespective of whether the 
tests are preventative  or diagnostic.  
Ms B argues that AXA should pay her claim  for a consultation and mammogram, because  they paid 
for similar medical procedures  12 months before. 
Ive considered Ms Bs claim from 12 months ago. Ive looked at the evidence  provided  Ms Bs 
consultant has explained  that following an ultrasound there were  concerns  Ms B was suffering from a 
medical condition. And a mammogram followed by a biopsy was necessary. 
On that occasion Ms B had symptoms prior to the mammogram and biopsy, so Ms B would  be eligible 
for screening tests to assess these symptoms. And Im satisfied the exclusion wouldnt be applied. 
I understand its likely frustrating for Ms B that AXA previously paid for similar procedures,  however 
insurance companies have a responsibility to deal with each claim on its own individual merits. Whilst  
I know its not the answer Ms B wants to hear, I dont think AXA have acted  unfairly in declining  her 
claim. 
Ms B also raised concerns about the customer service shed received from AXA. Ive reviewed  the 
submissions provided and what Ms B told us. I think its clear  that the service  Ms B received could  
have been better  in particular  when  AXA failed  to change her address on their case management 
system  but Ive not seen that significant inconvenience was caused to Ms B. So I dont think any 
additional compensation is appropriate. I understand that AXA have offered Ms B £100 which is still 
available. Ms B will need to contact AXA directly  to claim  this.   
my provisional  decision
Im not planning on upholding  Ms Bs complaint about AXA. If I dont receive any further evidence I 
wont be asking AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  to do any more. 
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1121003