K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Barclays Bank  UK Plc failed to raise a chargeback for a 
transaction.
background
Mr and Mrs J say that they are the victims of fraud,  having paid a company  just under £1,500 
in 2006 to help them with a timeshare problem. They say the company made  promises  to 
them that they did not keep and so asked Barclays in 2018 to raise a chargeback.  
Mr and Mrs J say Barclays didnt help them and failed to raise a chargeback. They  would like 
a full refund  of the money  they paid and say they have been caused  stress as a result of 
whats happened.
Barclays says a chargeback can only be made if a payment is made  by a bank card.  It says 
Mr and Mrs J made  the payment by bank transfer  and so the chargeback  rules  are not met. 
It also says in any event  the chargeback request has been brought too late and 
Mr and Mrs J are complaining about  events  that took place over six years ago.
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought  Barclays  could not raise a chargeback as it had been brought too late 
and the payment was by bank transfer and not by card. The investigator also thought 
Mr and Mrs J had brought their complaint about the actual payment too late for us to 
consider.
Mr and Mrs J dont accept that view and have asked for an ombudsmans  review. They  say 
in summary that Barclays should have deemed the transaction  as fraudulent  and should  be 
doing more to help them recover their money
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reason. I realise Mr and Mrs J will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate the stress they have been caused by the 
actions of the company that promised  to help them in 2006.
The chargeback rules are set by the card scheme  providers and not as in this case  by 
Barclays. Those rules say there are time limits of 120 days from the transaction to make  a 
chargeback request and that a chargeback  can only be made where  the payment is by debit 
or credit card.
In this case there is no dispute  that Mr and Mrs J made the payment by bank transfer in 
2006. So Im satisfied that a chargeback could not have been raised by Barclays  in any 
event as the payment wasnt by debit or credit card and was made more than 120 days ago. 
Im also satisfied in those circumstances that Barclays  didnt act unfairly or make a mistake  
by coming to that same conclusion.
I appreciate that in addition Mr and Mrs J say that this was a fraudulent transaction  that 
Barclays could have  done more to help them  with when it was made. The investigator has 
explained that we are subject to strict rules  about time limits and so we cant consider 
matters that go back to 2006  as in this case.  Mr and Mrs J havent made clear if they wish 
me to consider that point  but I make clear  that I agree  with the investigators view that 
Ref: DRN13959842Mr and Mrs J would  have known about the transaction  in 2006 and it has been  brought  too 
late for us to consider. I can also see that Mr and Mrs J made that bank transfer.
I accept that Mr and Mrs J will remain unhappy with my decision and I have no doubt  that 
they have been caused stress and frustration as a result of being promised help by the 
company in 2006. But for the reasons  Ive explained  Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly 
explained why it cant assist Mr and Mrs J.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395984