K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that she was not told about the excess mileage charges Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  would apply at the end of her car finance 
agreement.
background
Miss R took receipt of a used car in August 2015. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS. When the agreement  was put in place Miss R said she 
wasnt aware there would  be excess mileage  charges. She said she explained  to the 
dealership that she regularly  covered 20,000 miles per year and the sales representative 
had assured her this sort of agreement was perfect  for her. She was therefore  surprised, at 
the end of the term, to receive a bill for excess mileage as MBFS explained the agreement 
allowed only 10,000 miles per year.
Miss R complained to MBFS; she said she wanted  them to waive the excess mileage 
charge. But MBFS didnt support Miss Rs complaint.  They explained they had no evidence 
of what was said by the sales  representative but that the finance  agreement Miss R had 
signed, clearly set out the mileage limitation. 
So Miss R referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. 
She noted that Miss R had been  insured for 25,000 miles per year and that her insurance for 
the year before this agreement was for 25,000 miles as well. She thought this supported 
Miss Rs assertion that she was expecting to complete  a significant annual mileage and she 
didnt think it was likely Miss R would  have declared this mileage to the insurers  if it wasnt 
her intention, as she thought it likely that would have increased her insurance premiums. 
She also thought  it likely that a finance  agreement with less annual miles would cost less so 
she thought this would have been  more attractive  to Miss R and could have  been  a reason 
for the agreement to be misrepresented. She understood that Miss R had never contacted  
MBFS to ask for her mileage limit to be increased and she thought that was evidence  that 
she wasnt aware there was a limitation on the agreement. 
So the investigator thought it was most likely  that the agreement  had been misrepresented 
to Miss R and she went on to suggest what should be done about it. She didnt think it would 
be right to waive the excess mileage charge as Miss R had covered the distance and it was 
right she should pay. But she did think MBFS should compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience the misrepresentation of the agreement  had caused.  In the circumstances 
she thought £200 was sufficient. 
Neither Miss R nor MBFS agreed with the investigators view.  Miss R said this problem had 
caused her an immense  amount  of strain and the compensation suggested by the 
investigator wasnt enough and had added  to her stress. MBFS said there were 
inconsistencies in Miss Rs mileage estimations and that whilst Miss R had told them  she 
was expecting to cover 15 to 18,000 miles a year shed  told us it was 20,000.  They said this 
led them  to challenge  the reliability  of Miss Rs recollection of what  was said at the 
dealership. They noted that Miss R had now signed  a new finance agreement and had set 
that one up for 10,000 miles a year so they suggested this was further evidence of her initial 
intention. So both parties asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN12820232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think on balance that there is sufficient  evidence to suggest this agreement  was 
misrepresented to Miss R and I agree with the investigators suggested redress.  Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the finance  agreement should not be 
misrepresented. If it was and Miss R was told something that wasnt true and that persuaded 
her to enter into an agreement she would  not have otherwise entered into, then MBFS are 
responsible and Id ask them to take some  action to remedy the situation.
Here I think its fair to say the evidence is finely balanced. I think, as MBFS do, that its 
reasonable to expect  a consumer to have  read the finance agreement  before they commit to 
it. But finance documents are detailed and I note,  although  Miss R has not used  it as an 
excuse, that she has some difficulty with reading and this difficulty would often require 
reasonable adjustments to be made. She didnt tell the dealership  or MBFS  about  this so I 
cant expect them to have  taken it into account. But I do think its a reason she may not have 
read the agreement  in as much detail as most  consumers would and may not therefore have 
noticed the restrictive mileage  clause. 
That in itself is not a reason to suggest the agreement was mis-sold but I think  it does 
provide some explanation as to why Miss R would not have noticed the mis-sale. 
Im persuaded that theres more evidence than not that this agreement was misrepresented  
to Miss R. There  have been many  issues considered by the investigator  but Ive been 
persuaded that the agreement was mis-sold  because:
I think Miss R would have notified  the insurance  company  of a lower annual  mileage 
if she was intending to only travel 10,000 per year
Miss Rs insurance policies are consistent  with the evidence shes  given that she was 
travelling extensively at the time the agreement was established
I think its reasonable to suggest she would set her insurance mileage a little higher 
than what she expected to cover. So Im not dissuaded by the inaccuracies  in her 
testimony about the mileage she was anticipating 
I think its reasonable to suggest that the monthly payments on a finance agreement  
with an annual mileage limit of 20,000 would have been more than on an agreement  
for 10,000 as its clear the vehicle would be worth less at the end of the term. I dont 
Ref: DRN12820233agree therefore with MBFS  that there was no incentive for the sales  person to sell a 
lower mileage agreement.  He would have considered it more affordable and a more 
palatable option for Miss R
Ive asked Miss R about  her new policy which MBFS have explained has a mileage 
limit of 10,000 per year. Shes provided  evidence that she now has a new job and 
has moved home. I think this shows some  consistency in Miss Rs evidence  and Im 
persuaded that it supports her argument  that annual mileage  will have reduced.
So Ive thought about what  wouldve happened  if Miss R had been  correctly informed about 
the annual mileage limitation.  Miss Rs annual mileage wasnt  going  to reduce. She was 
always likely to do more than 10,000 and closer  to 20,000. So Im not persuaded that she 
would not have proceeded with the deal if it was constructed with a higher mileage limit. I 
think its reasonable to suggest the monthly  premiums wouldve increased and Ive 
considered whether Miss R would therefore  have looked at a cheaper car. But Im not 
persuaded this is most likely. I say that because  Ive noted that Miss Rs previous car, listed 
on her 2015 insurance  certificate, was a similar  high specification  vehicle. It would therefore 
seem most likely to me that shed wish to continue with a model of this type and I therefore 
think its most likely  she wouldve accepted the inevitable increase in monthly  instalments 
rather than look to change  the deal. 
So whilst I think the agreement was most  probably mis-sold I dont think its had a negative 
impact on Miss R as I think she was most likely  to set up a deal for a similar model  car and 
would have had to pay a little more  in monthly instalments for the additional mileage. The 
excess mileage she now has to pay would  not have been necessary but I think its 
reasonable to suggest she would have paid a similar amount through  an increase in monthly 
instalments.
It would not therefore be fair for MBFS to ask Miss R to pay the excess mileage in one lump 
sum. Instead  they should allow her to repay  it over a period of time as this is what I think she 
would have been doing if the finance  agreement  had not been  misrepresented  to her. She 
would have been paying bigger monthly instalments in recognition  of the higher mileage 
limit. But this isnt a repayment  arrangement  and should  not be recorded as such on 
Miss Rs credit file. 
Having said that it is clear that the misrepresentation of this deal has inconvenienced 
Miss R. Shes explained that shes been distressed by the matter and I can understand how 
that would  have been the case.  So I think MBFS should compensate  her for the distress  and 
inconvenience thats been caused  and, in the circumstances,  I think a payment of £200 is 
both fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN12820234my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  to:
pay Miss R £200 to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  shes  
experienced.
agree  a monthly repayment arrangement with Miss R to clear the outstanding excess  
mileage charge
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Rs credit file in relation to 
this issue
ensure the repayment arrangement they agree with Miss R is not reported as in 
arrears on her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1282023