K820x#14complaint
A3, a limited company,  has complained about  QBE UK Limiteds decision to void its 
business insurance policy. A3 is represented  by its director, Mr W.
background
Mr W was the director  of a limited company, which Ill call A1, through which he operated 
his small business. In 2014/15,  A1 became involved in a dispute with HMRC over its tax bill.
In January 2016, Mr W established  a second  business, which  Ill call A2. Mr W began 
gradually to trade through A2 and to wind down A1.
In September  2016, A1 and A2 took out a business insurance joint policy  with QBE. The 
policy was taken out through a broker.
In March 2017, A2 changed  its name to what Ill call A3.
In September  2017, the policy renewed.  It was still in the name of A1 and A2, even though 
A2 was now operating under a different name.
In October  2017, A1 entered  a creditors voluntary  liquidation. Its assets were bought by A3.
In June 2018, an employee  of A3 suffered an accident at work.  A3 made a claim under the 
policy.
While assessing the claim, QBE  became  aware  that A1 had entered  liquidation and that A2 
had changed its name.  It also noted that another company,  which Ill call Z1, had gone into 
liquidation in 2015 and mistakenly believed that Mr W was also a director  of this company. It 
wrote to Mr W saying  that he had not disclosed this information when he took out the policy 
on behalf of his businesses and that, if he had done so, it wouldnt have  offered  cover.  It said 
it believed his misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless and on this basis  it was voiding 
the policy and retaining the premium.
Mr W appealed against this decision.  He explained  the background to A1s voluntary 
liquidation and that he had no connection to Z1.
QBE acknowledged  its error in respect of Z1. However, it still considered that Mr W would 
have been aware  of the imminent liquidation of A1 and had acted recklessly in not making it 
aware of this. On that basis, it maintained its decision to void the policy though  it said it was 
prepared to refund the premium. 
Mr W, on behalf of A3, referred  his complaint to this service. He said that, because he had 
voluntarily liquidated  A1, he believed he hadnt needed to inform QBE  of it. He further  said 
his broker was aware of a very similar  situation involving another company  where  QBE  had 
still been prepared  to offer cover despite knowing of a previous voluntary liquidation and for 
this reason he disputed that the alleged misrepresentation  would have had any effect on 
QBEs decision to offer cover. He also said that QBE had handled the claim poorly,  with 
unnecessary delays. 
I initially issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold  the complaint. 
My findings  were as follows:
Ref: DRN10834992When the policy  renewed in September 2017, the statement of fact said:
Has any proposer, director or partner of the Trade or Business or its Subsidiary Companies 
ever, either personally or in any business capacity  been declared bankrupt or insolvent or 
been the subject of bankruptcy  proceedings or insolvency proceedings?  No
While this was strictly true at the time, Mr W would  have  been aware that A1 was about to 
enter creditors voluntary  liquidation. QBE considers he deliberately withheld this information 
to gain an advantage. It said if it had known  about  the imminent  liquidation, it wouldnt  have  
agreed to offer cover. On this basis, it voided his policy.
The Insurance Act 2015 requires a commercial policyholder to make a fair presentation of 
the risk when taking  out a policy, which means they should disclose everything they know  
which would influence the insurers judgement in deciding  whether to offer cover and on 
what terms. If the policyholder fails to disclose information which  would have affected the 
decision to offer cover, or the terms of that cover, it becomes a qualifying  breach for the 
purposes of the Act and, depending on whether  the policyholder acted deliberately  or 
recklessly, or carelessly, the insurer has certain  remedies  available  to it which could include 
voidance.
QBE says that if it had known of the imminent liquidation, it wouldnt have offered cover.  This 
would make Mr Ws failure to disclose the imminent liquidation  a qualifying breach. However, 
with the help of his broker,  Mr W has pointed to the circumstances of another company, 
which Ill call G, which was in a similar  situation and which, after the director  declared this 
situation to QBE, was still offered cover for his other limited company. I consider that the 
circumstances of G were very similar  to A1 and therefore think that this casts  doubt on 
QBEs assertion that it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr Ws businesses  had it known of the 
imminent liquidation  of A1.
I invited QBE to reconcile its claim that it wouldnt have offered cover to A3 with its actions in 
respect of G. QBE has been unable to provide a satisfactory explanation. I therefore 
conclude that if Mr W had told QBE  of the imminent  liquidation of A1, it would likely  have  
made no difference to QBEs decision to offer continued cover to his businesses.  This being 
the case, his failure to tell QBE of this, regardless of whether it was deliberate or simply 
careless, was not a qualifying breach for the purposes of the Act. This means QBE was not 
entitled to void his policy or, indeed, to make any changes to it when  it later learned of this 
information.
QBE also raised concerns  that A3 wasnt named on the policy. However, A2 was named on 
the policy and Im satisfied that Mr W simply forgot to notify QBE of the name change to A3. 
To all intents and purposes, A2 and A3 are the same legal entity. I therefore consider that 
this oversight on the part of Mr W didnt disadvantage QBE.
In light of the above, I consider that QBE was wrong  to void A3s policy. I consider it should  
reinstate the policy, remove any record of the voidance from internal and external 
databases, and consider  the claim.
Im satisfied that QBE  otherwise handled  the claim reasonably and there were no 
unnecessary delays. However, I consider  that QBEs action of voiding the policy will have 
caused inconvenience to A3 for which it should  pay £200 compensation.
Ref: DRN10834993I invited both parties to respond to my initial  provisional decision.
Once Id received those responses, I issued a second provisional decision explaining why I 
was now minded not to uphold the complaint.  My second provisional  findings were as 
follows:
My original provisional decision to uphold this complaint was based  on the fact that QBE, 
despite being invited to do so, was unable to reconcile its claim that if it had known the full 
facts it would not have offered insurance to A3 with its apparent actions in respect of another  
company, G.
QBE has now responded  with a very clear  and detailed explanation of its underwriting 
approach and why the situation with G was different to the situation with A3.
QBE has provided evidence of its underwriting guidance from which Im satisfied that if an 
applicant has previously  experienced financial difficulties, unless there  was a strong 
business case, cover would not be offered to that applicant. And even if there  was a strong 
business case, cover might still not be offered; it would be up to the underwriter to decide 
whether to offer cover and on what terms.
QBE has explained  that the financial difficulty experienced by G occurred midway through  
the policy year. After  carrying  out a thorough assessment  of the business, QBE decided  
there were particular reasons why it should  continue to offer cover to Gs owner,  albeit on 
different terms. And a factor in its decision was the fact that Gs owner had volunteered the 
information about the financial  difficulty he was facing,  which  was seen by QBE as reducing  
his moral hazard. I consider that QBE has given a plausible explanation of why it was 
prepared to continue  offering cover  to Gs owner.  Im satisfied that this was not its usual  
response to a request for cover from a director whose business  had run into financial 
difficulty.
QBE has said that, by contrast, Mr W did not voluntarily inform it of the problems he was 
experiencing with A1. If he had informed  it, unless he was able to make  a very strong 
business case to persuade its underwriters otherwise, it would have  declined  to offer cover.
QBE has further pointed out that the type of policy held by G was different  to the type of 
policy held by A3. And it has provided data to show that the chances of being offered cover 
after a referral to underwriters for the type of policy held by A3 were far less than for the type 
of policy  held by G.
All in all, I am persuaded that if Mr W had disclosed the imminent liquidation of A1 at the 
time the policy was due to renew in September 2017, it is very unlikely that QBE would have 
agreed to renew  the policy.
Mr W should therefore have disclosed this information to QBE. His failure to do so means 
that, under the Insurance Act 2015,  QBE was entitled to void his policy.  I dont need to 
consider whether Mr Ws failure to disclose the information was deliberate  or simply careless  
because QBE agreed to refund his premium  in any case. Im satisfied  that QBE  has acted 
fairly.
I have already explained in my first provisional decision that Im satisfied  that QBE  otherwise 
handled the claim reasonably and there were no unnecessary delays.
Ref: DRN10834994Finally, I note that Mr W took out the policy through a broker. I should point out to him that, if 
he believes  the broker was also aware  of the imminent liquidation of A1, it is open to him to 
make a complaint  against the broker for failing to pass on this information to QBE. 
I invited both parties to respond to my second  provisional decision.
A3 did not accept  my second provisional decision.  Mr Ws broker, responding on his behalf, 
gave more details  of the dispute between A1 and HMRC. He acknowledged that the reasons 
for A1s voluntary liquidation were  slightly  different to those for Gs voluntary liquidation but 
he disputed that this made Mr W a worse  risk. He questioned what  underwriting  evidence 
QBE had provided to cause me to change  my mind about the outcome of the complaint. He 
pointed out that A3s current  insurer was aware  of A1s voluntary liquidation but had been 
happy to offer cover at normal  rates with no special  terms imposed. He noted that this 
insurer, and others, chose to separate out voluntary liquidation from other types of liquidation 
in their statement  of fact. As far as he could see, there was no reason for A1s voluntary  
liquidation to have had any impact on QBEs  decision to offer cover and he believed  it 
adopted its stance  so that it didnt have to pay out on the claim which A3 had lodged.
QBE did not respond  to my second  provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my second provisional  decision. I shall explain why.
Mr Ws broker has questioned the underwriting evidence provided by QBE. I cant  provide  
this evidence to Mr W because it is commercially sensitive. However, as I explained in my 
second provisional decision, the evidence was very clear and detailed. And Im satisfied it 
shows that if QBE had been aware  of the imminent liquidation of A1, it is very unlikely it 
would have agreed to offer to renew the policy  in September 2017. 
I have noted the brokers  explanation of the background  to A1s voluntary liquidation and 
why he considers Mr W should not have been  seen as a worse risk than Gs owner. 
However, QBE is the insurer  and is entitled  to make  its own underwriting  decisions. And in 
this case, it has shown that it would have regarded Mr W as the worse risk.
I note that A3 now has cover with an insurer which apparently was unconcerned  by the 
previous voluntary liquidation of A1. I also note that this insurer, and others,  may present 
their statements of fact differently to QBE. But as stated above, it is up to QBE to make  its 
own underwriting decisions. This means QBE may decide what  information  is relevant to 
determining the risk and the circumstances under which it is prepared  to offer cover.
I therefore conclude  that, for the reasons previously  explained, Mr W should  have  disclosed 
the imminent liquidation of A1 when the policy was due for renewal  in September  2017.  If he 
had done so, I consider it is very unlikely  QBE would have agreed to renew the policy.  This 
being the case, I consider  it was fair for QBE to void the policy.  I have no reasonable 
grounds for concluding  that QBE took this decision simply  because  it didnt want  to deal with 
the claim which A3 had made.
Ref: DRN10834995my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
A3, to accept or reject my decision before 20 December  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1083499