K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about Acromas  Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Acromas includes their agents.
background
Mrs Fs car was damaged during an accident  in September 2018  and she claimed on her 
policy with Acromas. She agreed to use one of Acromas approved  repairers.
Acromas said her car was booked into be collected  for repair  on 12 October 2018. Acromas 
offered Mrs F a courtesy car but she said she didnt need one. But Acromas didnt collect the 
car that day. Acromas then told Mrs F the car would be collected on 24 October 2018 and a 
courtesy car would be provided. Mrs F said she returned from a holiday on 23 October  to be 
available for the collection  of her car and the delivery of a courtesy car the following day. But 
again Acromas again  didnt  attend. Mrs F said she had two wasted days waiting for Acromas  
and a third day was wasted because she cut short her holiday.
As Mrs F was unhappy with Acromas service she asked to use her own repairer because 
Acromas couldnt offer her another appointment for some time.  Acromas agreed and Mrs Fs 
garage repaired her car. During the four days her car was with her repairer she didnt have a 
replacement car. She said she suffered inconvenience as she had to visit her daughter who 
was poorly.
Acromas apologised  for what happened  and offered her £75 compensation. They also 
offered her £10 per day to compensate her for the four days she was without a car. Mrs F 
felt Acromas should pay her £200 compensation for their errors. One of our investigators 
looked into Mrs Fs complaint. She felt that Acromas compensation was reasonable. As 
Mrs F didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs F, but Im not going to uphold her complaint because  I think  Acromas dealt with her 
reasonably. Ill explain  why.
In her complaint, Mrs F has made  a number  of detailed points and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding 
issues.
Acromas have accepted  that their service  should  have been  better  and that Mrs F was 
inconvenienced. Im aware that Mrs F was able to continue using her car even though  it was 
damaged. But when her own garage had the car for four days in early November 2018, she 
was without a car. Acromas policy only allowed  for a courtesy  car if she used one of their 
repairers. But I can understand  why she wanted to use her own repairer  after Acromas 
repairer had let her down  twice. Had Acromas kept either one of the dates given to Mrs F 
she would  have had a courtesy  car during the time her car was being  repaired.
Ref: DRN18204272I think £75 compensation  is a reasonable amount  for the inconvenience Mrs F experienced 
for the days she set aside  waiting for her car to be collected. That amount  of compensation 
is in line with the types of awards our service makes for complaints of similar seriousness. 
And we think generally £10 a day is a reasonable amount to cover  public transport  costs  
which is what Acromas offered Mrs F. Ive not seen any evidence  to show  her costs were  
higher than that. As I feel the compensation offered by Acromas for the impact of any flaws 
in their service is reasonable, Im not asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1820427