K820x#14Complaint
Ms M has complained Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) failed to correctly process payments 
into two credit card accounts.
Background
Ms M visited her local BOI branch in December 2018 on two occasions in order  to make  
payments into two separate credit  card accounts  held with Bank  L and Bank  H.
Ms M made  two payments by cheque,  the first amounting to £650  and the second £2,000. 
Ms M said both of these  payments didnt  reach  Bank L and Bank H, meaning she missed  the 
minimum payments on both credit cards  and incurred charges as a result.  Ms M also 
believed this had negatively impacted her credit file rating. Ms M believed these payments 
were missed  due to errors  made  by BOI and therefore she should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset  this has caused. Both payments  have  since been credited  to the relevant 
credit card accounts.
BOI said that both payments were  processed correctly in branch. Their final response letter  
explained around the time the problem occurred, there had been a nationwide  issue 
affecting all banks. This had caused  processing delays to cheque  payments made  in branch 
to credit card accounts. They directed Ms M to Bank L and Bank H in order  to rectify any 
information that had been added to her credit file.
Ms M wasnt happy with BOIs response and so she referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint  and didnt uphold it. He thought  BOI had shown  
they had processed  the payments correctly in branch  and the delays were caused  by the 
Cheque & Credit Clearing  Company who operates the Image  Clearing System.  Therefore, 
he did not ask BOI to take any further  action to resolve Ms Ms complaint. BOI agreed  with 
this view.
Ms M disagreed with this view, she believes the delay  was the result of BOIs  use of the 
Image Clearing System which she said was confirmed to her verbally when in branch.  She 
referred to a letter she received from Bank  H which stated that the payment was delayed 
due to BOI using an incorrect  credit  reference number. Ms M also mentioned she was 
unhappy with BOIs  handling of her complaint. 
As Ms M disagreed with our investigators  view,  the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will not be upholding 
the complaint  for the same reasons as the investigator.
Neither Ms M nor BOI dispute that the cheques were processed  when  Ms M visited her local 
branch. On both occasions, Ms Ms current account was debited  for the amount she 
intended to pay. The main  issue is the length  of time it took for these payments to reach the 
recipient accounts  held with Bank  L and Bank  H and the cause of this delay.
Payment to Bank L
Ref: DRN11287612BOI state  they processed each cheque payment correctly  and therefore  arent  accountable  
for the delay  and any impact caused. Ms M says both Bank  L and Bank  H advised  her that 
the delays were caused by errors  made by BOI and for this reason  they should  be held 
accountable. In order to address this, Ive looked  at the information provided by BOI for both 
payments when processing the cheques to identify whether any clear  errors were made.
Ive seen that the sort code and credit reference  number that Bank L used to credit  Ms Ms 
account on 29 January  2019 matches  the information BOI sent to the Cheque  & Credit 
Clearing Company on 6 December  2018. Therefore, they correctly processed the payment 
as I would expect.
However, this doesnt explain  the delay of almost  two months. BOI state around this time, 
there was a known  issue where credit transfers  made in branch were not being applied  to 
the customers recipient  account. I have seen an internal communication sent by BOI to all 
branches explaining that this was an issue being experienced by all banks in the UK. This 
was sent after Ms M made her two payments  so the branch wouldnt have been able to 
make her aware.  
So, on balance, I think its likely that Ms Ms transfer of £650 to Bank L was affected by this 
issue and this was the cause of the delay. This is because the transfer was made around the 
relevant time and matched  the circumstances of the known issue. So I dont think BOI has 
done something wrong and it would be unfair for me to hold them  responsible for this and 
any impact the delayed payment created.
Payment to bank  H
Ive seen an e-mail from Bank H to Ms M that states BOI provided an incorrect reference  
number which caused the delay in processing her payment  of £2,000.  They went further to 
say they were contacted by BOI, who supplied the correct details at a later date and at this 
point the funds were  applied  to the account.
Ive compared  this explanation to the information  provided to me by BOI. BOI have provided 
a screenshot of their system which documents all the communication  between themselves 
and Bank  H regarding the payment.  The payment was processed on 21 December, the date 
Ms M visited the branch. They then chased  Bank  H on two occasions requesting an update  
on the processing of the funds as Ms M notified  them she had missed her minimum 
payment. 
On 18 February 2019, Bank H responded advising the funds had been processed  into the 
account on 15 February. I have seen  no evidence showing  BOI provided a new reference 
number or any further information to Bank H during  this time. So Im of the view that the 
payment processed  by Bank H was completed using the original  details BOI provided to 
them. As Ive not seen  anything in the system  notes, or messages  between BOI and Bank H 
to suggest BOI gave  incorrect details, I dont think it would be fair to say they had made an 
error. So I think its likely the same cheque clearing  issue affected this payment causing 
those delays.
Im aware that this isnt the answer  Ms M was hoping for and leaves her in the same  
position. But, as the investigator explained, Ms M should contact Bank  L to discuss this 
further. Its my understanding that Bank  H have already  amended Ms Ms credit file as per 
her request  as well as refunding any charges she incurred.
Ref: DRN11287613My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about  Bank  of Ireland (UK) 
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1128761