K820x#14complaint
Mrs K, on behalf of the late Mr K, has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold Mr K a 
personal loan payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the loan in 1994. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has any paperwork available from the sale,  which is not surprising  given 
how long ago it took place. But this does  make the complaint more difficult  to decide. In 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is more likely to have happened.
The complaint is that Mr K was led to believe that the loan had a greater chance of being 
agreed if he said yes to having  PPI. From what we know of Lloyds sales  processes at the 
time, the PPI was usually presented as optional. I havent seen anything in this case  to 
persuade me that something  different  happened on this occasion. Overall,  based on the 
available evidence, Im unable to conclude that Mr K wasnt  given a choice about taking out 
the policy. It seems to me that he probably  decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
We dont have much information  about  the sales process, so have assumed that it was an 
advised sale. This means that, in recommending the policy to Mr K, Lloyds needed  to ensure 
that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ks circumstances at the time,  the policy 
was suitable for him.
Mr Ks employer  would  have given him six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay 
if he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Mr K would have  received  full pay for (the policy would have potentially paid 
out for the remaining term of the loan for accident or sickness claims). Mr K had some 
savings, but having the policy  would have meant that he could have retained these or used 
them to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time. 
This was a regular monthly paid policy that could have been  cancelled at any time without 
penalty. So the fact that Mr K may have intended  to pay off the loan early didnt make  the 
PPI unsuitable.  Looking at Mr Ks circumstances, overall I think  that Mr K had a need for the 
PPI and could  have benefitted from it.
Lloyds also needed  to provide Mr K with enough  information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether  or not the policy was right for him. Its possible  that Lloyds didnt 
Ref: DRN11160892provide as much information as it should  have about the PPI, particularly the things  that it 
didnt cover, but Mr K wasnt affected by any of those things.
As I think  that Mr K had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.  So he was no worse off as a 
result of anything Lloyds may have done  wrong, so theres nothing  that Lloyds needs to do 
to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs K, on behalf of the late Mr Ks, complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1116089