K820x#14complaint
Miss G and Mr P have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a 
personal loan payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss G and Mr P took out the policy in 1998 at the same time as arranging the loan. 
Although it was a joint loan, the policy was set up just to cover Mr P for accident,  sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G and Mr P disagree  with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss G and Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide says that, due to the passage of time, it can no longer  tell what the sales  channel 
was. However, on some  of the internal data it has sent us, there  is a branch code at the top 
of the page. Miss G and Mr Ps original  recollection was that the loan and PPI were arranged  
during a meeting. On balance I consider that it probably was during a meeting, although this 
doesnt make a great deal of difference to my decision as Nationwides  phone  and meeting 
sales processes were very similar.
Miss G and Mr P say they didnt know that PPI had been added  to the loan account  
therefore it was added without their knowledge or consent. Ive seen a copy  of the loan 
agreement that Miss G and Mr P signed. There is a table of financial information that 
includes a separate  column for Optional Credit Insurance. This details the cost of the PPI 
premium, the interest payable, the total amount payable and the monthly  cost.  Rather than 
being small print that could easily have been missed, the table (and the PPI information 
within it) is a prominent part of the form .
From what  we know of Nationwides sales process, there would have been some discussion 
about PPI and then the loan agreement was printed out afterwards.  If someone  didnt want  
PPI then there would  be no mention of it on the loan agreement. 
Ive no doubt that Miss G and Mr P have  provided  their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss G and Mr Ps 
recollection of events has faded  somewhat.  Ive thought very carefully about what theyve 
said about the PPI not being verbally  explained  during  the meeting  and how it should have 
been, especially  as Miss G was suffering from mental health difficulties at the time. However, 
based on the available evidence I consider that it is more  likely than not that there was some 
discussion of the policy. It seems to me that Miss G and Mr P probably decided to buy the 
policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Ref: DRN11253342Mr P is dyslexic and struggles with paperwork. However, it was a joint loan with Miss G 
being present  during the sale,  so she would have been able to assess  the paperwork. And 
besides, I have  found that there  would  have been some discussion about  the policy and that 
they would  most likely have understood that they had a choice  about  taking it out.
Nationwide didnt advise  Miss G and Mr P to buy the policy,  so it didnt need to ensure that it 
met their needs. But it did need to provide enough  evidence for them  to make an informed 
decision.
I consider that Miss G and Mr P would  have known something about the policy  that it 
would have covered their loan repayments  if Mr P was unable to work   because I dont 
think theyd have decided  to buy the policy without  knowing  anything about it.
Mr P would have received  two months sick pay from his job. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to this and potentially for longer  than Mr P would  have received full pay for. 
The couple  say they had some savings, but having the policy  would have allowed them to 
retain these  or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult  time. 
The couple  have said that, even with Mr P working,  they were  struggling financially. So I 
consider that they had a need for the policy and could benefitted from it at what  would have 
been a difficult  time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think Miss G and Mr P had an interest in the cover and decided  to buy it, 
Im not persuaded that further information  would  have caused them to change  their minds. 
So they arent any worse  off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing that Nationwide  needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss G and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1125334