K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the advice he received from REX Financial  Service LLP (RFS)  to 
transfer his personal  pension  from Provider  A to a Self Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) 
with Provider B. 
background
Mr K said he was cold called by RFS in 2018,  and asked if he wanted pensions  advice.  RFS 
said it doesnt make cold calls. Either way, Mr K met with RFS to discuss his pension.
At their meeting, RFS carried out a fact find. At the time of advice, Mr K had a personal 
pension with Provider A with a transfer value of £45,797. He was not making  ongoing 
contributions into this plan due to his financial circumstances. He was in his mid-fifties  and in 
good health. His only dependant was his wife. She was in her fifties  too. Mr K was working,  
earning around £30,000 per annum. His wife wasnt working. He did not have a fixed  
retirement date in mind. Their disposal income  after paying all their bills was between  £200 
and £300 per month. They  had around £270,000 equity in their mortgaged home. Other  than 
that, Mr K had around £5,000 in other  assets and a small pension  (£2,000) with the NEST, 
the workplace pension scheme  set up by the government.
RFS said in the suitability report sent to Mr K that it had assessed him as being  a highest 
medium risk investor. In June 2018,  RFS recommended Mr K transfer the pension  funds he 
had with Provider A to a SIPP with Provider  B. Mr K accepted this recommendation and the 
funds were transferred.
Following transfer, Provider  B received instructions to place the transferred funds into 
specific investments. However,  Provider B had concerns about the high level of charges that 
would apply if it acted  upon those instructions. It didnt follow  the instructions and held the 
money received  in cash instead. Provider  B later notified Mr K that it had cancelled the 
agency it had with RFS. After being made  aware  of this situation,  Mr K transferred the 
money in his SIPP into his NEST pension arrangement.
Mr K complained to RFS. It didnt uphold his complaint. RFS disputed  the fact that Mr K had 
suffered any investment loss arising from its recommendation. It said the advice it gave Mr K 
was suitable, based on his attitude to risk (ATR).  It didnt feel that the removal  of the agency  
arrangement by Provider B had had a direct impact  on Mr Ks financial position. 
Mr K complained to this service.
Ref: DRN17490792Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ks complaint and upheld it. He concluded that:
The annual charge was higher in the SIPP (1% per annum and a £100 flat fee, 
compared to 0.9%  for the personal  pension with Provider A).
Mr K also had to pay an annual management charge of 1% to RFS. This was on top 
of the annual SIPP charge to Provider B, even though the recommended portfolio 
had a Discretionary Management Fund. It wasnt clear why this further management 
by RFS was required.
Mr K was also charged 4% of the fund (£1831.88) by RFS for its advice  and to switch 
to the SIPP.
Provider B didnt  go on to make the investments  RFS put forward. It was concerned 
about the establishment and exit fees that wouldve applied  had it done so.
Mr K shouldnt  have been  classed as a high-medium risk investor. Mr K said he 
couldnt remember undertaking a risk review and considered himself to be a low risk 
investor. Our adjudicator was concerned about  the fairness of the risk assessment 
Mr K was said to have completed.
Mr K appeared not to have  any experience of buying  and selling financial 
instruments.
Mr K was at the time of advice  invested in a relatively low-risk fund and the low risk 
NEST fund. His circumstances were not indicative of him being a high-medium  risk 
investor. In the adjudicators view, Mr K was a low risk investor, looking to secure his 
pension.
Even if Mr K was a high-medium risk investor, then there were alternative funds 
available through Provider  As plan that he couldve switched into at lower cost. He 
also couldve transferred  the money into his NEST pension,  where  the annual 
management charge  was 0.3%.  This would have cost him considerably less.
Looked at overall our adjudicator was satisfied  that Mr K did not need  to transfer into a SIPP  
and had no need for the varied and different investment products available within  that SIPP.  
He was satisfied  that the plans and providers Mr K was with were  more suitable for him. 
Our adjudicator also noted that RFS didnt  appear  to be aware that the planned investments 
werent then made by Provider B due to its concerns, or that Provider  B had removed  its 
agency. He said he wouldve  expected  RFS to be aware of these things, given that it was 
being paid to manage Mr Ks pension.
Our adjudicator concluded that the recommendation to switch  to the SIPP  appeared to be 
fees orientated  and the advice Mr K received was unsuitable and of no benefit to him.
Mr K accepted our adjudicators view. RFS didnt respond. So, Mr Ks complaint  comes to 
me to consider. 
Ref: DRN17490793my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my conclusions  are 
largely the same as our adjudicators and for much the same  reasons. I therefore uphold 
Mr Ks complaint.
Like our adjudicator, I find it unlikely that Mr Ks ATR to risk could  fairly  be classed as being  
at the highest-medium  level given  the wider  circumstances outlined  above. I think it more  
likely that Mr Ks own assessment of his attitude  to risk is accurate,  along with it being 
recorded that he could only withstand small-medium  losses.
I can see that the adviser recorded that no new money was going  to be paid into the plan 
and the plan was paid  up. So the retirement  income Mr K was likely to receive,  seemed  
dependant on the capital  growth of the value of his existing fund. I think  in these 
circumstances, it wouldve been important to Mr K to keep the charges and fees payable to a 
minimum, balancing this against the potential for investment return. 
In addition to the charges mentioned above, Provider B also charged £250+VAT for 
establishing the SIPP and an ongoing  annual  charge of 0.5% of the plan value for 
maintaining it, subject to a minimum of £200 and a maximum of £400.  Switching to the SIPP  
cost Mr K £1831.88 in advisers fees and the additional annual fees. Like our adjudicator,  I 
cant see that he derived  any tangible benefit  from switching, particularly given that the 
recommended investments appeared unsuitable  in Mr Ks circumstances.
As the adjudicator pointed out, in 2008, the regulator issued a report  entitled quality 
of advice  on pension switching . The report  provided examples of poor, compliant and 
good, advice.
An example  of poor advice was where:  
A pension  incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved  
assessing cases where, for example, the reason  for the switch was for investment flexibility,  
but this was not likely to be used; the reason  was fund performance,  but there was no 
evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was the flexibility of a 
drawdown option, but there is no evidence this option was needed)
Here, the adviser  noted in the suitability report, that SIPP plans are often not considered  
suitable where the fund value is less than £50,000.  The adviser justified the SIPP 
recommendation based on the greater  variety of investment funds and propositions  
available in the SIPP.  He considered the option of staying with Provider A and switching 
funds, but concluded this did not satisfy Mr Ks objectives of maximising the flexibility of his 
pension provision both in pre-retirement investment strategies and post-retirement income 
requirement. However, looking at the modest value  of Mr Ks fund, his general 
circumstances and the investment options that wouldve been available  in his other plans, I 
think the advice  Mr K was given  to switch was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN17490794In addition, I have  taken into account  what Provider  B told him about  the charges he 
wouldve been liable to pay if his fund had been  invested in the way his adviser  
recommended. Provider B said that if Mr Ks funds had been  invested as per the advice he 
received from RFS, the investments wouldve made a slight  loss over the period invested. 
But had he wanted to move his investments (given the charges were much  higher),  as he 
has now done to NEST,  he wouldve been  charged a redemption  fee of 18% with another  
potential settlement fee of 6%; leading to a loss of over £10,000. Along with the other switch 
related charges, over 25% of Mr Ks fund couldve  been lost this way. Further,  I have taken 
into account that Provider B was so concerned about the instructions that it decided not to 
act upon them. Of note, it seemed obvious  to Provider B that RFSs recommendation may 
not be suitable for Mr K. 
Taking all of this into account,  I am satisfied that the advice RFS gave Mr K was unsuitable 
in the circumstances.
fair compensation
To compensate Mr K, fairly RFS should:
 Compare the performance  of Mr K's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss 
and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
RFS should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, RFS should pay into Mr K's NEST  pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. RFS payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  It shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If RFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr K's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But, had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
For example, if Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr K would have been  able to take a tax-free lump  sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
 In addition, RFS should pay Mr K £250 to compensate for the trouble 
and upset caused to his pension planning.
 RFS should  provide  the details of the calculation  to Mr K in a clear,  simple format.
Ref: DRN17490795Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If RFS consider that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K 
how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment name
status benchmark from
(start date) to 
(end date)
Provider B 
SIPPtransferred
For half the 
investment FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: average  
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
transfer 4/07/2018 date transferred to NEST
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
Using the transfer value from the pension, this is what the investment would have been 
worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  RFS should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Ref: DRN17490796why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr K wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone  
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors  Income  total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return  index) is made  up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
 I consider that Mr Ks risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr K into that position. It does not mean  that 
Mr K would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index  tracker investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr K could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective  and risk attitude.
 The loss, if any, needs  to brought up to date and in line with the NEST  fund 
now invested in.
further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website  by 
searching for quoted household interest rates  and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database , clicking  
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates  / Deposit rates  - Fixed 
rate bonds  / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source  data.
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'.
Ref: DRN17490797my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
I order REX Financial Services  LLP to pay Mr K fair compensation calculated as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1749079