K821x#15complaint
A and B complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold them  a PPI policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on A and Bs complaint in April 2019.  I said I was minded  
not to uphold their complaint and set out my reasons  in my provisional decision.  I invited A 
and B and the Co-operative Bank  to make any further comments  they may want to, before I 
issued my final decision. Neither the Co-operative Bank, nor A or B had anything further to 
add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As none of the parties have anything 
further to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision (set out below).  
my decision
For the reasons  set out, I dont uphold  A and Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A and B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13008032Provisional  decision  of 30 April 2019 (identifiers removed)
complaint
A and B complain  that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold them  a PPI policy.
background
A and B took out a monthly premium PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 2007. They  took the 
policy out during a meeting with Co-operative  Bank. The cost of the policy was £33.09 per month 
and the monthly benefit wouldve covered their mortgage repayment in full, which, at the time was 
£1202.59. The policy  was free for the first six months. They were covered  jointly for accident,  
sickness and unemployment and the policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months per successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint was upheld. B said he was suffering from a pre-
existing health condition at the time of the sale in 2007. Our adjudicator  thought  this made  the 
policy unsuitable for him because  his pre-existing  chronic  condition wouldnt have  been covered.
Co-operative Bank said it didnt accept our adjudicators recommendation. It said it had 
previously asked B for details of his pre-existing  health  condition  and this information hadnt 
been provided.
We asked  B to provide  us with more information about his pre-existing medical
condition. B said he was unable to do so because he was living overseas  at the moment and 
unable to go to his GP to obtain the information.
A and Bs complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, based on the information  currently available,  I 
am minded  not to uphold A and Bs complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen A and Bs mortgage application. Theyve ticked the box and signed to say that they 
wanted PPI. Ive also seen  their separate PPI application, where theyve also signed to say they 
wanted PPI. So, I think PPI was added because they said they wanted it, knowing it was an 
optional extra.
Co-operative Bank recommended the policy  to A and B. I can see this from the demands and 
needs statement completed at the time. As well as considering whether the policy was suitable for 
them, Co-operative Bank also had to give A and B information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading about the PPI, so that they could  make an informed choice about whether the policy 
was right for them and they wanted to buy it.
From what Ive seen of their  circumstances, I cant currently see that the policy was unsuitable 
for them at the time of sale.
Ill deal first with the position  in relation to Bs medical  condition.
Looking at the nature of the condition B mentions,  I think it likely that it wouldve  been classified  
as a chronic condition  under the terms and conditions  of the policy. A chronic condition was 
defined as:
Any condition,  injury, illness,  disease,  sickness or related condition that has at least  one of the 
Ref: DRN13008033following characteristics:
continues indefinitely, or
is constant and controlled rather than cured; or
has symptoms that recur and have required  consultation, treatment,  advice or care in the 
past, or
require long term monitoring, treatment, consultation, check ups, examination  or 
tests.
The terms  and conditions of the policy  made it clear  that the insurer would not pay disability 
benefits for any chronic condition.
On the PPI application, B answered the following questions about his health at the time of sale:
Are you in good health: Yes
Have you undergone  any major surgical  operation  in the last 12 months?  No
Have you consulted your doctor during the past 12 months  other than for minor illness: No
Are you awaiting hospital  treatment: No
At the time of taking out the insurance A and B were both employed in NHS hospitals  as doctors, 
so I think it likely that they wouldve understood what  they were being asked and been in a position  
to respond appropriately to the questions  asked about their health at the time of sale. Theres 
nothing here to indicate  that B had a pre-existing medical condition.
As far as I can see B first provided details  of his pre-existing  medical condition to
Co-operative Bank with his letter of complaint in 2018. He says his condition was diagnosed in 
1988. In October  2018,  Co-operative Bank asked him to supply details of his medical condition 
and offered to meet the costs of doing so. Co-operative Bank says B didnt respond.
Based on the limited information about Bs condition currently  available, I dont have enough  to 
fairly conclude that he had a pre-existing medical  condition at the time of sale which  wouldve 
been excluded under the policy. I cant see that either of them would  otherwise have been affected 
by the main exclusions  or limitations in the policy.  As it appears that they couldve benefitted from 
everything the policy offered,  I cant fairly  uphold  their complaint on this ground.
I think it should be possible  for B to obtain information about his medical history  from his GP (or 
former GP) even though hes overseas. Also, I dont know when  he went overseas. I can see that 
Co-operative Bank asked  B for this information in October 2018.
It looks like the policy  was otherwise suitable for A and B, I say this because:
Both were eligible to take out the policy and it didnt look unaffordable. It was free for the 
first six months;
A said she wouldve been eligible to get around 6 months  of sick pay through work. The PPI 
policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim  and on top of her work 
benefits. It wouldve  allowed them to use her work benefits to meet their other household 
expenses at what  might  be a difficult time for them financially. B wouldnt have got any sick 
pay through work. So, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to them if he wasnt able to work 
and they didnt have  his income coming in each month.  They both said they would get death 
in service benefits  through work  and said they had life insurance. However this didnt 
provide them with duplicate protection, so I cant see this made  the policy  unsuitable for 
them.
They  said they couldve sold their cars and their families wouldve  helped with their 
Ref: DRN13008034repayments. I accept  their families may have  wanted  to help, but help of this kind cant 
always be guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed much  reliance on this. 
Similarly, we cant know how easy or quick it wouldve been  for them to sell their cars to 
meet their repayments, so I havent placed much  reliance  on that either.
Its possible there may have  been some shortcomings in the way this policy was sold.  I think its 
possible that A and B couldve  been  given clearer information about the costs of the policy, for 
example. But, they were  given an indicative  cost of how much the policy would cost and how much  
cover this would provide  them with after the free period. So, I think they understood how much the 
policy was likely  to cost.  The policy  couldve been cancelled at any time without  them losing out 
financially.
I have looked at the health  questions  on the PPI application  form,  I cant see from these how the 
applicant wouldve been  alerted to the fact that a chronic condition would be excluded from cover. 
From the questions asked, nor can I see how the adviser  wouldve been able to identify whether  the 
applicant had a chronic condition to advise on whether the policy was suitable. However, given  
that B hasnt  provided  evidence of his medical condition at this time, I cant fairly say that hes lost 
out because he wasnt given clear  information about this. And based on the submissions I have 
received to date, and for the reasons Ive given above, I havent seen sufficient  evidence to think  the 
pre-existing condition B told us about was enough in itself to make an otherwise suitable policy  
unsuitable.    
Based on what Ive seen so far, I still think it likely  that A and B wouldve  decided to take out the 
policy if theyd been better advised and informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular 
situation. I dont think  better advice or information wouldve stopped them buying PPI. So, currently I 
cant see that A and B have  lost out because of what Co-operative Bank may have done  wrong.
my provisional  decision
I am currently  minded not to uphold this complaint.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1300803