K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about a delay by British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) under his 
HomeCare policy in dealing with problems he had with his central  heating  system.
background
There is some history  to Mr Ps complaint. He says he contacted  BG a few years  ago about  
poorly functioning radiators and was advised that his boiler would need to be replaced and 
that this would resolve the issue. In 2013,  after Mr P had replaced his boiler, he noticed that 
a bedroom radiator wasnt functioning. BG replaced the non-functioning  radiator with another 
radiator in the same room  and did some pipework to bypass blockages in the system. Mr P 
says that after this work, two of the radiators in another two bedrooms stopped functioning.  
He says he was advised by the BG engineer  that this was due to blockages in the system. 
He says this problem was never resolved by BG.  
In 2018, Mr P contacted BG again  about  the non-functioning radiators in two of his bedrooms.   
Another radiator  in one of the bedrooms couldnt be turned down. 
A BG engineer visited Mr Ps property  on 1 November 2018 but was unable  to identify what  
the problem was. He attempted to balance the radiators but this didnt resolve the problem. 
He advised Mr P that his heating system needed to be powerflushed and said hed arrange 
internally for this to be done. He said that if the flushing didnt work then the problem was 
likely to be a blockage  in the piping. 
Mr P contacted BG again on 17 December 2018 to chase up the flushing hed been told 
would be arranged.
Having still heard nothing from BG, Mr P contacted it again on 15 January 2019.  He said he 
now wished to raise  a complaint as at this point hed been  waiting for 10 weeks for BG to 
deal with the matter.  This was followed up on 22 January with a detailed  complaint in which 
Mr P raised a number  of issues  he had with work BG had undertaken in the past and poor 
advice hed received when installing a new boiler  system in 2013.
Ive looked at the matters Mr P raised  in this complaint.  The only one of these that this 
service can look into is his most recent complaint about BGs  failure  to deal with his radiator 
problem for some five months, as this arises from the HomeCare insurance he has from BG. 
The other matters he raises arent activities regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority,  
and are therefore outside our jurisdiction.
BG arranged  for Mr Ps heating system to be flushed on 22 February 2019. This still didnt 
rectify the problem. BG then decided it was possibly a pipework problem. Further  
investigation found that the pipework was incorrect. This was rectified on 21 March. This 
resolved the circulation issue although there was a leak in the system. This was investigated 
and was then resolved.
There was clearly a significant delay in resolving the fault first brought  to BGs attention in 
early November. The first remedial action by BG was the flushing that took place nearly  four 
months later. BG has said that after checking its records, it was unable to identify the 
reasons for the delay. It accepts that Mr P contacted it on 17 December 2018  some  seven 
weeks after hed first contacted it - to query  when it would resolve matters but that this 
wasn't addressed  by BG until after Mr P had sent his complaint on 22 January 2019. After  
Ref: DRN17608642that, it wasnt until 22 February that a flush was actually undertaken.  BG has explained that 
when this failed  to sort the problem, there was a concern that the internal pipework may 
have been the cause  of the fault,  and rectification of this mightve involved lifting flooring to 
gain access. As this wouldve  caused  a degree of disruption, BG says there were internal 
discussions to consider the possible  solutions.  
BG accepts that there was considerable delay  in addressing Mr Ps heating problem, and 
has offered him £200 compensation. Mr P has rejected  this.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with BGs  response to his complaints, and referred  them to this service. 
Our investigator explained to Mr P that this service could only consider his complaint relating 
BGs failure  to deal with his heating problem  in a timely manner. His view was that BG had 
taken responsibility  for the delays on its part but that the £200 compensation it had offered 
was far too low. He suggested that BG should increase its compensation to £400.
BG responded to our Investigators  view.  It said that the two non-functioning  radiators were  
actually in the same bedroom and the radiator that was permanently  on was in another.  So 
only one bedroom  was without heating. It considered that taking this into account, the 
suggested compensation of £400  was too high. It also said that it hadnt been  aware  of 
Mr Ps issue  until his formal complaint in January 2019, and that further delay was caused by 
investigating whether there were any options  to lifting the floor. It also said that Mr P had 
previously received compensation following issues arising after hed had his new boiler 
installed in 2013.
As BG doesnt agree  with our investigators  view, its asked that the complaint be considered 
by an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr Ps complaint  and 
Ill explain  why.
Im aware of the various complaints that Mr P has raised with BG and which  arise from 
issues dating back to 2013. As Ive mentioned above, and as our Investigator  has also 
explained, I can only consider the most  recent complaint as it relates to the service provided 
by BG under  Mr Ps HomeCare insurance  policy.
BG doesnt disagree  that Mr P raised the problem with his non-functioning  radiators in early 
November 2018,  although Mr P would say that this was a problem that had existed for some  
years before that but had never been  resolved  by BG. It also doesnt disagree that the 
problem wasnt finally resolved until March 2019. By any measure, that is a significant period 
of time. 
It appears that from early  November until 17 December 2018 when Mr P contacted BG for a 
progress update, nothing was done  to arrange the powerflush that BGs engineer had said 
hed seek approval  for. It then appears that nothing further was done until Mr P submitted a 
formal complaint on 22 January. That was not far off three  months during which nothing 
appears to have been done. BG then arranged for the powerflush,  but this took a further four 
weeks to arrange.  After the powerflush  had proved unsuccessful, a new approach had to be 
considered, and this took a further  month.
Ref: DRN17608643So, it took from the beginning of November  2018  until 21 March 2019 for BG to rectify the 
problem with Mr Ps bedroom  heating. He says that during this time the bedrooms affected 
were being  used by a child with asthma and elderly  relatives with respiratory  illness, and he 
had to use electric heaters to provide warmth and these increased his electricity  bill.
Ive taken into account what BG has said by way of explanation, but I dont consider that it 
has provided sufficient  explanation  for the delay in dealing with Mr Ps heating problem. I 
dont consider that it makes the delay  any the less unacceptable to say that only one 
bedroom rather than two was affected.   BG had been told that Mr P had relatives with health 
issues living  with him, and the heating was unavailable during the height of the winter  period.  
And BGs explanation that its Customer Services Manager wasnt aware  of the problem with 
Mr Ps heating  until he complained in January  2019  only goes to illustrate a breakdown in 
communication within BG. Further, compensation awarded for a previous  issue  is irrelevant 
to the justification for compensation for subsequent  failings.
Mr P has said that he pays £50 a month for his insurance with BG. Going by his renewal 
notice, I think its less than this. But his insurance should provide  him with peace of mind that 
if a problem arises with his central heating, plumbing or electrics, it will be fixed by BG within  
a reasonable timescale. I think the compensation of £400 recommended by our Investigator  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It reflects  a reimbursement of his premiums paid 
over the period when BG wasnt  addressing  his problem.  It would also include a further sum 
to cover the extra electricity Mr P wouldve used and the inconvenience and upset hes 
experienced in having  to chase BG for a repair that could well have been addressed in a 
matter of weeks, but which ultimately took nearly  five months.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ps complaint, and I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay him compensation of £400  (less any sum is already  
paid him).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1760864