K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her a Plus (later rebranded 
as Advance) packaged bank account  in 2008. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Miss Ms complaint already and didnt think  HSBC had mis-sold 
the Plus account.  Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Ms complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. Having done  so and while  
I know that this will be disappointing for Miss M, Im not upholding this complaint. Id like to 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Miss M was given a clear  choice in taking this account.  At 
this point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. When the parties to a complaint disagree  about what 
happened (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from the time,  I have  to think about  
what I have been  provided with, what  I do know and the wider  circumstances at the time. In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what both Miss M and HSBC have been  able to provide me with.  
  
Miss Ms account was upgraded to a Plus one from a free one shed had for a period of time. 
So I think Miss M wouldve  known HSBC did a number of different accounts including free 
ones and that she didnt need to have the Plus account if she didnt want to. Overall having  
weighed up what Miss M has told us against  everything else Ive seen, I think its likely she 
was given a clear choice on taking the Plus account.  
From what  Ive seen, I dont think HSBC recommended the packaged  account  to Miss M. So 
it didnt have to check whether  it was right for her. And it was up to Miss M to do this for 
herself bearing in mind  the cost of the account and the benefits included. I think  its likely that 
Miss M wouldve been told about  most,  if not all, of the benefits on the account in order to 
make it appear as attractive  as possible. After all HSBC was trying  to persuade her to take a 
fee paying account when  she most  likely knew she didnt have to. And the best way to have 
done this wouldve been by telling  her about what shed get for the monthly fee. 
I think that Miss M used  some of the benefits  and she was eligible for and couldve used 
some of the others  too. When  Miss M upgraded to the Plus account  the main  benefits it 
included were preferential  overdraft and savings terms, fee free overseas cash withdrawals, 
travel insurance and breakdown cover. 
Miss M had an overdraft. And she wouldve paid less interest when using it, because she 
had the Plus account. So I think  that she wouldve found the Plus account useful for this. 
Miss M also had savings with HSBC  and received more interest on them because she had 
the Plus account.  She also used the fee free overseas cash  withdrawal service. And as   
Ref: DRN18541312Miss M travelled, Ive seen no obvious reason  why she couldnt have relied on the travel 
insurance included  with the account either.
Im open  to the possibility that Miss M may not have  been  told about all of the significant 
features and exclusions on all of the insurance benefits. I know  she says that she wasnt  told 
about the need to be at least a quarter of a mile away from home in order  to be able to call 
the breakdown  provider.  But as Miss M decided  to keep the account even after finding this 
out, I dont  think that clearer  information  wouldve stopped her taking the account  out in the 
first place  especially as shes said that the breakdown cover was one of her primary 
reasons for upgrading.
Ive also seen what Miss M has said about not being told she could have the preferential 
rates without paying for the insurance. But this wasnt possible at the time Miss M was sold 
her account  in 2008. This was a change that was made in 2014. And the information  Ive 
seen suggests  that HSBC  wrote to Miss M explaining this shortly before the change was 
made. As this is the case, and Miss M kept the insurance aspects package,  Im afraid that 
there simply  isnt enough for me to say that HSBC unfairly misled Miss M. 
Miss M may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe  she hasnt benefitted from the 
account as much she had hoped and expected  to. And given what she mightve read and 
heard about  packaged  accounts  in general, I can understand why she might  believe her 
account was mis-sold.  But I have  to look at the case thats  in front of me and decide what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And I want to reassure Miss M that having  looked at 
everything provided and listened to what shes said, I dont  think  that HSBC mis-sold the 
Plus account  to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854131