K820x#14complaint
Mr M says The Co-operative  Bank PLC didnt  do enough to protect him from falling victim to fraud.
background
On 13 May 2014 Mr M attempted to purchase a campervan through  eBay for £6,590.  
Mr M says that he wasnt familiar with using eBay, and he hadnt made many online 
payments at the time.  He made enquiries  about the campervan through eBay and received 
correspondence back that he believed was from eBay but was actually from a fraudster. Mr 
M was given  an individuals account  details  which he was told was an eBay holding 
account. He was told by the fraudster to transfer  his money to this account  until he had 
viewed the campervan in person.
Mr M says that when attempting to transfer the money online he had trouble getting the 
payment to go through and assumed this was due to the large amount. He called The       
Co-operative for assistance. Mr M doesnt  recall the call handler questioning him on the 
purpose of the transfer or having any concerns that the payment hadnt gone through  
immediately. However,  he says he explained to the advisor that he was trying  to pay money 
to an eBay  holding account  and that the advisor  talked him through  the process.
The following  day Mr M travelled to view the campervan and discovered that it didnt exist. 
At this point Mr M realised  hed been the victim of a scam and contacted The Co-operative  
and Action  Fraud.  The Co-operative  says it contacted the beneficiary bank but was told that 
unfortunately, no funds  remained.
Mr M remained unhappy and contacted  The Co-operative in March  2019 to make a 
complaint. He says that when he called The Co-operative for assistance in making  the 
payment, no questions were asked  about  the payment being  made.  He says if the advisor  
had explained  to him that he was paying an individual rather than an eBay holding account, 
he wouldnt  have completed  the payment. He also says that when he accesses his online 
account now, he receives numerous  warnings  about  scams.  He says that had he been  
warned at the time,  he would  not have become a victim of fraud.
The Co-operative didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  It said the payment didnt trigger its fraud  
prevention systems and while  it could see a call was made by Mr M, the call recording was 
no longer available to determine  what was discussed. The Co-operative  has referred to Mr 
Ms initial complaint where he said the phone advisor talked him through  filling  in the 
required online fields, to explain why Mr Ms online payment wasnt initially  successful. The 
Co-operative acknowledged there  was now more  information on its website regarding  fraud 
and scams  but that this reflected the volumes  and sophistication of fraud in more recent 
times  at the time of the transaction it had not experienced the level of authorised  push 
payment (APP) fraud that it has seen more recently. 
Unhappy with The Co-operatives response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Hes explained hes unhappy  that The Co-operative hasnt kept this call recording  he says 
that there  was a criminal  investigation linked to his claim and the recording should  therefore 
have been retained. He says that by not doing  so, The Co-operative  has damaged the 
validity of his complaint.  He also thinks  the advisor who assisted him with his payment 
transfer failed  to act with due diligence by not questioning the payment being made.
Ref: DRN17932872The complaint was brought to our service and looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold 
it. The investigator concluded that it was reasonable for The Co-operative  to no longer have 
a copy of the call recording due to the length  of time that had passed. She also said that 
without this recording, she couldnt  conclusively determine what conversation took place 
between Mr M and The Co-operative advisor.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been  passed to me 
to consider and come  to a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Im required to consider 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards;  codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Theres no question that Mr M has been  the victim of fraud. But the question  that I must  
consider here is the extent to which The Co-operative can be considered liable for his loss. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  
In 2014, there were  some circumstances where  a bank should have taken additional steps  
before processing  a payment to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
For example, there were some guidelines  which  shouldve been followed  when  older or 
vulnerable customers  asked to make  unusually large cash  withdrawals or where someone 
appeared to be telling them what to do.
In recent  years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams,  leading to greater 
expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. For example, the British Standards 
Institutes Protecting  Customers  from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice was published in October 2017,  which recognised  the banks should look to 
identify and help prevent  transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  - 
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  And the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code,  effective  from 28 May 2019, was set up to provide protection  for customers who 
fall victim to APP scams,  and also to reduce the occurrence of APP fraud. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide  whether  The Co-operative  acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr M when he requested the payment transfer, based on the 
expectations of banks in 2014.  I also need  to consider whether The Co-operative did all that 
it ought to have done when he reported  that the payment was fraudulent. Having done so, in 
this particular case Im not persuaded The Co-operative should  refund Mr M the amount he 
lost. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered whether The Co-operative shouldve done  more to identify this 
transaction as potentially  being fraudulent and prevented Mr M from making it. 
Ref: DRN17932873I accept Mr M was making a relatively  large payment, but I dont think  the circumstances of 
this transaction  ought to have prompted  The Co-operative  to question whether Mr M might be 
at risk of falling victim to a scam. I say this because the payment wasnt  so large or the 
circumstances so unusual  (for example  it didnt  clear Mr Ms account)  that The Co-operative 
ought to have reached out to Mr M to make enquiries about the payment before it processed  it. 
Of course,  in this case there was a conversation between Mr M and The Co-operative  before 
the payment was made. Mr M says he called The Co-operative as he was unable  to make 
the payment online and he believes this mustve been because  the payment had been  
blocked because  it was too large. During this call Mr M has said that he told the call 
operative that the payment was going  to an eBay holding account.  
The Co-operative no longer has a copy of the call recording, but it has said the payment 
didnt trigger its fraud  prevention systems  and it didnt think the payment had been blocked, 
rather the issue was more likely to have been because  Mr M hadnt filled in the required 
online banking fields correctly. 
Without the call recording  I cant know for sure what was discussed. I dont know exactly 
what information Mr M gave The Co-operative and what  advice it might  or might not have 
provided in return.
While I dont doubt that Mr M has provided his honest recollections, I am mindful a long time 
has passed since the call took place; his recollections arent particularly detailed and 
memories do fade over time. So having considered the matter  carefully;  being  mindful  of the 
lack of contemporaneous evidence and on the balance of the evidence  thats been 
presented, Ive not been persuaded The Co-operative failed to act with due care or diligence  
during that call.
Mr M is particularly unhappy that The Co-operative no longer has the call recording from the 
time he was attempting to make  the payment. He feels the absence of the call recording is 
damaging the validity  of his complaint and that this is not his fault. 
Ive thought about whether The Co-operative has acted fairly and reasonably  by not keeping  
a copy of the call recording relevant  to this complaint. Ive kept in mind that the call took 
place in 2014 and that Mr M did not make  his complaint to The Co-operative until almost  five 
years after the event took place. In most circumstances,  I wouldnt expect  The Co-operative 
to retain  a call recording  for a number of years but Ive thought  about  whether, in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  the call shouldve  been kept for longer. 
Mr M has told me that the last time he heard  from Action Fraud  was around a year or so 
after the fraud took place and, as Ive said, Mr M didnt raise a complaint with The Co-
operative about the scam until nearly  five years after the event  took place. As there is no 
evidence to suggest Action Fraud or the police continued investigating the scam  beyond 
2015, overall I think its understandable the firm no longer has a copy  of this call recording  
though I do understand this is frustrating for Mr M. 
Ref: DRN17932874Ive gone on to consider whether The Co-operative did enough once Mr M made it aware of 
the fraud on his account. Due to the time thats passed since  the fraud  took place, neither 
The Co-operatives or the recipient banks records make it clear how quickly  The Co-
operative contacted  the receiving bank. This is unfortunate  but understandable given the 
time that has passed. In any event, the recipient  bank has confirmed that almost  all the 
funds were spent the day they were received, with only £5.00  remaining. So even if The Co-
operative didnt  act quickly enough it wouldnt have  made a difference. 
I do feel considerable sympathy  for what Mr M has been through here. But unfortunately, Im not 
persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing  on the part of The Co-operative  
so whilst Im sorry  to have to disappoint  him, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Kirsty McShane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1793287