K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs F took out with a store card in 1998. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Fs application  form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mrs F wanted to take it out. And the box has been  
ticked.
Based on this, I think FICL made  it clear  to Mrs F that she had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mrs F chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs F any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs F. But it did have  to make sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer  than Mrs F says she wouldve  been entitled 
to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  she didnt need to rely on any savings she had to 
make her repayments if she wasnt earning.  So it looks like the PPI couldve  been useful to 
her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs F off taking it out.
Ref: DRN10049122my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1004912