K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Black Horse Limited refused to let him reject a car he had bought with a 
hire purchase agreement.
background
In October  2016 Mr E bought  a second  hand  car from a dealer I will call D, funded by a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  It was some three years old and had done 28,994 
miles. Subsequently he encountered two issues with it, water coming into the ABS wiring  
and the ECU  and the sunroof rubbing on to the painted surface  of the roof panel.
In the summer  of 2017 the car was taken back to D and it asked a main dealer  to look at it. 
According to an email from D to Black  Horse the main  dealer had initially  said a new ABS 
module and wiring  loom  was needed due to water ingress at a cost of £3,000.  However D 
asked for it to be repaired at a cost of £204.  The invoice for this work states Clear  codes 
and test - all OK at time of test. NB THIS IS NOT A PERMANENT  REPAIR. RECOMMEND 
NEW ABS MODULE AND WIRING HARNESS.
Mr E says the ABS warning light continued  to come on and Black Horse arranged  for an 
independent report  to be carried out. The inspector concluded that the ABS fault was 
present at the point of sale, but didnt comment further as he only carried out a visual  
inspection. He also said there needed  to be an adjustment to the roof to prevent it from 
rubbing on the metal.
Black Horse  upheld Mr Es complaint about the ABS but said that the repair which  had been 
carried out was fair and reasonable.  It didnt uphold his complaint about  the roof as it said it 
was characteristic  of the model rather than a fault.  It offered him £150 for distress  and 
inconvenience and £75 for loss of enjoyment.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. Initially she recommended it be upheld, but Mr E decided to take legal action 
against Black Horse and so the complaint was closed. Some months  later he asked for it to
be reopened.
The investigator suggested that in the circumstances  it would be helpful to have another  
report done to see if the repairs had been effective. Mr E said the fault was intermittent and 
he was concerned that a report may not identify the fault. He had taken the car off the road 
and he didnt feel safe driving  it and believed his insurance company wouldnt pay up if he 
had an accident  knowing it wasnt safe.
The investigator concluded that she didnt  have enough evidence  to say that the repair 
hadnt worked. She acknowledged the fix had been temporary, but felt she needed to have a 
further report to be clear as to whether  there was an ongoing issue. However, she 
considered the business needed  to cover  the cost of the repairs  required to the sunroof. 
Black Horse  agreed, but Mr E didnt. He said he had spoken to another  garage who said the 
fix was only temporary. He also said that he had only done some 2,000  miles and the car 
was sitting unused as it wasnt safe to drive.
I issued provisional  decision as follows:
Ref: DRN12394492I noted the car was some three years old and had done almost  29,000  miles.  It had been  
accepted that there was a fault with the ABS/ECU  at the time of purchase and so this meant 
that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  However Black  Horse  has said that D was entitled to 
make a repair and as it had done  so this meant that the fault has been resolved. The 
investigator also concluded that in the absence of independent evidence she could only 
conclude that the repair had been  effective.
While I appreciated her view I reached a different conclusion.  I considered  that for a repair  to 
be considered  effective it must be made  with the intention of it being  permanent or at the 
very least long lasting. It was clear  from the invoice that the dealer appointed  by D to carry 
out the work  applied a temporary fix. The dealer  was approved by the manufacturer and so I 
regarded it as having the relevant expertise and I could see no reason to conclude  that the 
fix was permanent. It followed that at some point further work would be required to repair the 
car properly.
I believed that it was likely that that D took the view it didnt wish to incur a cost of £3,000  to 
have the ABS fixed as recommended. I accepted  that we had seen no independent  
evidence that the fault has reoccurred, but we did have circumstantial evidence. Mr E had 
told us on several occasions  that the warning  light comes  on and he has taken the car off the 
road and notified  his insurance company.
I thought therefore  that the car wasnt fit for purpose  at the point  of sale.  It was only three 
years old and had done  a modest mileage. Such a major fault as the ABS system not 
functioning properly  due to water ingress was not something one should expect of a car of 
this age and one which cost almost £10,000. I considered Mr E should  be allowed to reject 
the car. I added for completeness that I also believe there were problems with the sunroof 
which needed to be addressed, but as I was recommending  the car be rejected no further 
action needed  to be taken on this issue.
In considering the appropriate redress I had to take into account the fact that the investigator  
issued her view recommending that he be allowed  to reject the car in February  2018.  
However, Mr E didnt accept this offer and sought  to take legal action. I believe this had 
deferred settlement  of his complaint and I didnt see why he shouldnt  be responsible for his 
monthly payments  while this matter has been delayed. He reinstated  his complaint  with this 
service in June 2018 and a resolution  was then delayed due no agreement  being reached 
on the provision of a further independent  report.
Black Horse  agreed with my provisional  decision but Mr E did not. He said that the proposed  
redress was too low. He said that he took the car off the road in January 2018 after he had it 
inspected by another garage as it was too dangerous to drive.  He had only done  1,991 miles 
and it had been stored on a driveway  for over a year. He added  that he had been paying £10 
a week parking costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that it agreed by all parties  that rejection  is an appropriate response to the 
problems Mr E had with the car. However,  Mr E feels that he is entitled to greater redress. 
He has pointed out that he hasnt  had use of the car for over a year and I presume he 
believes that he should be repaid all his monthly  payments.
Ref: DRN12394493My responsibility is to be fair to all the parties. This service  recommended that he be allowed 
to reject the car last February  and Mr E decided not accept this. He decided  to seek an 
alternative solution and only later returned  to this service  with his complaint. In the meantime 
the car has been  devaluing and the delay means  that Black  Horse will take back a car that 
has reduced in value due to Mr Es decision not to accept the original offer.  I dont believe it 
fair that the business should bear the cost of that loss. 
Mr E has had use of the car, albeit he has only driven it for some  2,000 miles and has kept it 
off the road for a little over a year. For that alone I would expect him to pay the monthly  
payments up to January 2018  less any periods  it was undergoing repair. However, as I have 
explained his delay has led to the car depreciating and as such I remain  of the opinion that 
my original recommendation is fair to both parties. Mr E will get back his deposit plus 
miscellaneous costs with interest along  with compensation  should he chose to accept the 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and I direct Black Horse  Limited  to d 
recompense Mr E as follows:
1. Take  back the car and end the agreement.
2. Refund the deposit  of £840.00, subject  to this having been paid by Mr E
3. Refund the cost of the service plan of £263.33 service  plan and £499.17 warranty.
4. Refund all monthly payments made  from 1 September 2018 onwards as this is when the 
matter could have  been resolved.
5. Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from date of payment to date of refund.
6. Pay £225 for the inconvenience  caused  to Mr E as originally offered by Black Horse.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1239449