K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a regular premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a flexi-loan.
background
In 1995 Mrs G took out a flexi-loan with HSBC.  Its unclear as to how the sale took place  
she said it was in one of its branches  but, at the same time, it sold her a regular premium 
PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs G disagreed,  so the case  
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Gs case.  
HSBC had to explain  to Mrs G that the PPI was optional and get her agreement  to take it. I 
cant say for sure what happened since HSBC doesnt have much  information from the time 
of the sale. Although I dont find that surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. 
Overall, I cant fairly find that HSBC  failed to make  Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional or 
that it didnt get her agreement to take it out before it was added.
Ive assessed  this complaint on the basis HSBC  recommended  PPI to Mrs G. That meant  it 
should have looked into whether its recommendation was suitable  for her. I dont know if 
HSBC did that but I think the recommendation was suitable in any case because:
From  what Ive seen of her circumstances  and what I understand of the scope of the 
PPI, Mrs G would  have  been eligible for the policy. And she wouldnt have been 
affected by the main  policy  exclusions  or restrictions. 
Mrs G says shed have  received enhanced sick pay and/or redundancy pay from her 
employer. But the policy likely would have  paid the loan repayments in addition to 
that pay and for longer, at up to 12 months if Mrs G had lost her job or become too 
sick to work. So I think the policy offered her useful extra protection.
The policy premium was payable  each month, so the PPI offered flexibility in that 
Mrs G could have cancelled it at any time if she felt it no longer met her needs. 
HSBC also had to give Mrs G enough information  for her to decide if the policy was suitable. 
Its not clear exactly what information  HSBC  gave Mrs G, or how well that was explained. 
But, even  if HSBC didnt  tell Mrs G everything it should have, for the same reasons I think  
the PPI was right for her, I dont think better information would have stopped  her from buying 
it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs Gs lost out because of how HSBC sold her 
the policy.
Ref: DRN16465562my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1646556