K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc is that shes due money from four investment 
policies.
background
Mrs Bs complaint relates  to four policies that she took out in 1983 and 1984. It seems they 
were due to mature 10 years later. Mrs B complains  that shes  still due money from the 
policies.  
Our investigator thought Mrs Bs complaint about the policies themselves should be 
dismissed because  it had already been  looked  at by the ombudsman  service in 2002. 
Our investigator said she could look at what happened in 2015  when Lloyds  wrote  to Mrs B 
to say they were  unable  to trace the policies. Lloyds  later acknowledged theyd given Mrs B 
incorrect information. Lloyds said their position on the policies remained the same.  But they 
offered Mrs B £50 in compensation for the inconvenience caused  by giving her incorrect 
information. Our investigator  thought  that was fair and reasonable.
Mrs B disagrees with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
my findings
As our investigator explained, the rules  governing the ombudsman service  allow  us to 
dismiss complaints in certain circumstances. One of the grounds on which  an ombudsman 
can dismiss a complaint is if he considers that dealing with it would otherwise seriously 
impair the effective operation of the service. That includes  where the subject matter of the 
complaint has previously been  considered  by the ombudsman service. 
Mrs B complained to our service in 2002 that she was due money  from her four investment 
policies. An investigator looked at the available evidence and gave his view on Mrs Bs 
complaint. Im not persuaded that Mrs B has provided new evidence  thats likely to affect the 
outcome.
So I agree with our investigator that Mrs Bs complaint about the four policies should be 
dismissed without considering the merits. 
I have looked  at Mrs Bs complaint that Lloyds gave her incorrect  information when she 
complained to them again in 2015.  In doing so Ive considered  all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs B in April 2015 to say they had no trace of her investment policies. 
Lloyds accept this was wrong as they did have information about her policies. Theyd  
considered her complaint about  them in 2001  and been in contact with Mrs B and her 
representatives since then.
Lloyds apologised  to Mrs B for their mistake. They said they would have expected  Mrs B to 
be aware of their position on her policies from their previous  correspondence.  But they 
accepted that Mrs B shouldnt have been  given incorrect information and offered her £50 in 
compensation.
Ref: DRN13361162It must have been very frustrating for Mrs B to be told Lloyds had no record of her policies, 
particularly as shed  complained about them previously. But Lloyds apologised for their 
mistake, and Mrs B had previous  responses  from Lloyds explaining their position  on her 
investment policies. So overall  I think  Lloyds offer of £50 in compensation is fair and 
reasonable, and I wont  be asking them to do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Lloyds Bank Plcs offer of 
£50 to be fair and reasonable. So Lloyds should  pay Mrs B £50 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1336116