K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to recover  £190 that she paid into 
another Nationwide customers account  in error. She wants Nationwide  to pay her £190. 
background
On 21 August 2018, Mrs S made a payment of £190 from an account  with another bank to 
go to her Nationwide account. She realised, almost immediately, that she had made an error 
on the account number typed in. She called both banks to let them  know what had 
happened. 
Nationwide received a Credit  Payment Recovery (CPR) request on 22 August 2018. 
It appears that Nationwide  tried to recover the funds  on 30 August 2018  and again  on 12 
September 2018. The attempts to recover the money  were  unsuccessful.  
Mrs S says that she contacted both Nationwide and the other bank a number of times to try 
to get her payment back. She says that felt bounced back  and forth between  the two banks. 
She says that they each also told her that they hadnt  heard from the other bank. Mrs S 
made a complaint.
On 8 October 2018, Nationwide say that they told the other bank that theyd been  unable to 
recover the money.
In Nationwides  final response letter dated  12 November 2018, they told Mrs S that the level 
of service that she had received from them wasnt what it shouldve  been. They had already 
given her £50 compensation. They gave her another £75 to compensate  further poor 
service. Nationwide  didnt  accept that they should  pay Mrs S the £190  because they said 
that there  was a difference  between a bank error and a customer  error. They didnt accept 
that this was a bank  error.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this outcome so she came  to us. 
Our adjudicator found that the compensation that Nationwide paid for poor service  was 
reasonable. She also found that Nationwide should pay Mrs S £190 for the money that they 
had been unable to recover. 
Nationwide didnt agree  with this decision so the complaint  has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that the compensation of £125  paid for poor service is fair and reasonable. 
But I also think that Nationwide  should pay Mrs S a further £190  for the money  that they 
have been unable to recover. I will explain  why.
Nationwide quoted the following guidance,  arguing that they had followed the correct CPR  
procedure:
Ref: DRN12711752How your bank  or building society  can help if you have sent a payment  in error
Bank and building societies in the UK that offer Faster Payments follow  procedures  known 
as the credit payment recovery process,  that set out how the help they must  offer customers  
that have accidentally made  a mistake when sending a payment.
  When you notify your bank or building society that you have made  an electronic payment 
to the wrong account, your bank will commence action on your behalf within  a maximum of 
two working days.
  Where your bank finds clear evidence  of a genuine mistake, they will contact the receiving 
bank on your behalf with a request  to prevent the money being mistakenly spent. As long as 
the recipient does not dispute  your claim, you will subsequently receive  a refund of the 
protected funds  within 20 working days from when you notified your bank.
  In cases where the circumstances  of the claim are not clear cut, your bank will still contact 
the receiving bank on your behalf.  The recipient will be contacted  by their bank to ask for 
consent to debit their account. No funds would  be removed without the consent  of the 
receiving customer.
They particularly argue that No funds would be removed without the consent  of the 
receiving customer. They say that they were  unable to get the consent  of the customer.  
But, having  read this guidance,  I dont think that this applies to Mrs Ss situation.  The 
guidance states it would apply in cases where the circumstances of the claim are not clear 
cut. I think  that they are clear cut here so I dont think that this point is relevant.
I think that Mrs S made a genuine mistake  here and she acted very quickly in informing both 
banks involved.  
The other bank  also notified Nationwide of the error the day after it was made. Nationwide 
were then expected  to protect the £190 to ensure that it wasnt spent.  I do think that this 
wasnt possible as the £190 paid into the wrong account covered insufficient funds in the 
recipients account. But, I also think that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mrs S to have 
to cover this debt because of her genuine error. I think  that this is a situation where 
Nationwide should  cover Mrs Ss payment as this would  be fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mrs S £190 to 
replace the money that they have been unable to recover.  This is in addition to the £125 
compensation already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1271175