K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that the claim they made  on their furniture warranty was partially 
rejected by Ageas Insurance Limited.
background
In late 2014 Mr and Mrs B bought a suite of furniture  and alongside it, they arranged a 
five-year warranty that covered it for accidental damage, staining (untreated)  and structural  
defects.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on the warranty. In relation to the recliner sofa there  
was damage to the leather covering only. The other sofa had similar problems with the 
leather and there was a broken structural member within the sofa.
Ageas sent a technician out to examine  the furniture. He repaired the broken structural  
member and Mr and Mrs B are happy with this repair. 
The technician said in relation to the recliner sofa that the centre  seams  had become rubbed 
and scuffed during  use. There was colour-loss on the raised  seam  and at the ends of the 
seat cushions. This had been  caused  by abrasion over time from clothing and was wear  and 
tear. For the second sofa the technician said the leather had slowly worn and crazed during 
use. There was crazing/cracking to the top lacquer of the leather which had occurred  
gradually. There was colour-loss on the raised seams and ends of the seats. This was again  
described as consistent with wear and tear.
Ageas declined the claim for the damage  to the leather covering because it was colour-loss, 
rather than peeling of the leather. Colour-loss  isnt something covered by the warranty.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept that outcome and referred  the complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt  recommend that it be upheld.
Policy definitions:
Staining Untreated  accidental staining  from any substance.
Accidental Damage   resulting in a rip or tear, burn, scratch, puncture or scuff.
Structural defects  including peeling of leather and peeling/lifting of veneer.
On 24 January 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  on this case.  In that document I set out 
my conclusions and my reasons for reaching  them. An excerpt  of the decision is below.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr and Mrs B are happy with the 
repair to the structural  component  of their sofa, I dont propose to comment  on that issue  in 
this decision.
I have looked  at the technicians report and the accompanying photographs with great  care. 
There appears to be two distinct types of damage to the sofas. That which is particularly 
clear on the edges  of the seat cushions, covering significant areas and that in the area of the 
seams of the cushions and which are small distinct areas.
Ref: DRN17095552The technician has said that the first type of damage  is due to wear and tear  basically the 
movement over the surface  of the leather  has caused damage to the top layer of the finish 
and the colour  to wear off/fade.  Having  considered  the explanation and the photographs,  I 
am inclined to accept that explanation. As such,  I dont think  Ageas was wrong to say there  
wasnt any cover for this damage available under the warranty.
However, the remaining damage  - that which is clearly shown around the area of the seams 
in the photographs from the technicians report (numbered 0, 3, 8 for the second  sofa and 
1 and 6 for the recliner sofa) is a different matter. These areas of damage clearly  show  that 
the surface of the leather has been  completely removed. I would not expect normal wear  and 
tear to cause this type of damage to furniture  after a little over three years and on which  a 
five year warranty had been  sold. 
Insurance policies  are underwritten based  on the risks associated  with the cover provided.  In 
this case Ageas decided to offer a five-year warranty. As such, I think  it reasonable that the 
furniture would be expected to remain in an acceptable  condition  throughout that period, 
assuming normal use. 
The technician hasnt  suggested any mis-use  of the furniture and other than the specific  
areas of damage, the photographs indicate that it is in a good  state  of repair. I also note that 
in relation to at least the recliner, the technician has said that this damage was caused by 
scuffs. Scuffs are covered  under the accidental damage section of the policy. Furthermore, 
given that the entire finished  surface of the leather appears to be missing,  I think that there 
would be a reasonable argument that the damage  could  fall under the structural  cover  and 
be considered  as peeling of the leather. 
In light of this, I conclude that Mr and Mrs B have a valid claim under the warranty  for the 
areas around the seams where  the entire surface layer of the leather has been removed. As 
such, Ageas  should deal with this part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision.  Ageas  didnt. It provided dictionary  
definitions of scuff  and wear for my consideration. It accepted that the damage  was 
unintentional but didnt think it was accidental  as defined by the policy. It didnt, however, go 
on to expand on its thoughts on this point.  What it did say is that the damage couldnt be 
consider peeling of the leather as the leather was tested and no tannery faults  were  found. 
(Ageas didnt provide evidence  of the testing or the test results with its response.)  It did, 
however, agree that normal wear shouldnt  cause the leather to wear,  but that doesnt mean 
that the policy should cover the damage  if it is not found to be peeling  leather. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has said that the leather of the sofa was tested for tannery faults as evidence  that the 
damage I highlighted couldnt be peeling of leather.  I assume  that this testing  was done 
when the technician attended Mr and Mrs Bs home.  However, no mention of this testing was 
detailed in the technicians report produced at the time. Nor has Ageas provided evidence  of 
this testing along with its response to my provisional  decision. As such, I am not persuaded 
that the complete loss of surface on the leather  couldnt be peeling  of leather, if it was not 
caused by a scuff.
Ref: DRN17095553I also take it that Ageas is disputing this damage was caused  by one or more  scuffs.  This 
doesnt reconcile  with its own technicians findings  at the time of the inspection   that at least 
some of the damage  to one of the sofas  was caused  by scuffs.
I have considered the further comments from Ageas, but they havent persuaded me to 
change my conclusions.  I am satisfied  that the damage detail above  does  represent  a valid 
claim under the either the accidental damage (for the scuffs) or structural damage  (peeling of 
leather) sections of the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited  to deal 
with the damage  I have  concluded falls within the cover provided by the policy.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1709555