K820x#14complaint
Ms B brings this complaint on behalf of her late fathers estate and with the consent of the 
executor of this estate.
She complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) incorrectly paid out funds to 
her fathers partner, to the estates loss.
background
Ms Bs father appointed  his brother as executor of his will. The Will bequeathed a set 
amount to both of his children. The remainder of his estate was left to his partner.
Ms Bs father sadly died in October 2016;  NatWest said it wasnt  formally notified by the 
executor of his death until March 2017. On being notified NatWest said it followed its 
processes and blocked the accounts and cancelled the debit card. 
In May 2017, Ms B disputed transactions totalling £4846.70 made between October 2016 
and March 2017. She believes  her late fathers partner carried out the transactions.  And 
says the bank ought to have prevented the funds  from being removed.
NatWest said it wouldnt  refund the transactions as it couldnt be held responsible for them 
as they were made before it was notified about her fathers death. And the executor had 
accepted that her father had given  his partner his bank details to carry out his day to day 
business. 
Ms B wasnt happy with the response and has referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator said NatWest had followed its processes as soon as it was notified  of the 
death. And it couldnt have known that it wasnt Ms Bs father using the accounts until then.
Ms B has asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Ms B wont  be happy  with my 
decision as Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand how upsetting this situation  must  be given the loss of a family member.  But I 
can only look to see whether NatWest has acted fairly  and reasonably in what it has done.
The banks records  show that the disputed transactions were made using the genuine card it 
had issued to Ms Bs father. And as a number of the transactions  were  cash  withdrawals 
from ATMs the transactions  would also have been  made using the genuine  cards security 
feature, its PIN. The bank  doesnt have any record of the card having been reported  stolen  
or missing. And there is no evidence of any attempt to cancel the card or to block the 
accounts until March  2017, when the executor notified NatWest  about her fathers death.
I have looked to see if there was any unusual activity that could have raised concern with 
NatWest about how the account was being  used before  it was notified of Ms Bs fathers 
death.
Ref: DRN12078292In the main the same activity is happening  on the account before October  2016 as is 
happening after October  2016. There are some variations  in the amount of some of the 
regular transactions, some  payments  into the account stopped and there was an increase in 
the number  of ATM withdrawals. But overall  it was similar activity  and there wasnt  anything  
particularly unusual  that could be seen as suspicious  activity.  I havent  seen anything that I 
think would have led NatWest to think Ms Bs father  wasnt using the account or that his card 
wasnt in his possession.  So I dont  think there  was anything that could have caused    
NatWest to question  how the account  was being  used or who was using it.
I know Ms B thinks her father may have  been  put under pressure to give over his bank 
details. And I know and can understand why Ms B is upset by what  has happened. But I 
cant hold NatWest  responsible for it. NatWest  took the appropriate steps  to safeguard  her 
fathers accounts  as soon as it was notified of his death. And if this had happened  nearer to 
the date he died this action could have  been taken sooner which would  have blocked the 
accounts use.
Again, I can only look to see whether NatWest has acted fairly  and reasonably in what  it has 
done. I make  no comment as to who or how transactions were carried  out after Ms Bs father 
died. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1207829