K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Stagemount Limited  (trading  as Quid Market) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans Quid Market provided to Mr M between October 
2012 and June 2017. Mr Ms lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 for £225 (£289.13 with interest) taken out in October  2012  and repaid in 
February 2017.
Loan 2 for £420 over four months  (£706.04 with interest) taken out in June 2017 and 
repaid early a month later.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought loan two shouldnt  have been 
given. Quid Market disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN16891122I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market  was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan two would most likely  have 
shown that Mr M:
Struggled to repay loan one, taking nearly four years to clear a loan with a 21 day 
term.
There was a four month gap between Mr M repaying loan one and taking loan two. I 
dont think this gap was significant  enough for Quid Market to consider that Mr M had 
a better  grip on his finances.  
Mr M told Quid Market  several  times that he was experiencing financial difficulties 
and was in a debt management  plan.
 
There was a significant risk that Mr M would be unable to meet  the repayments for 
loan two and any subsequent loans.  
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan two and Quid Market should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quid  Market  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan two from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid  
Market must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN16891123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Stagemount  Limited (trading as Quid Market) should pay Mr M compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1689112