K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F complains that Legal  and General  Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) have refused to 
give her the annuity  they quoted and caused  unreasonable delays meaning she didnt  have 
the time to get alternative advice.
Background
Mrs Fs husband  had a pension scheme  that provided a guaranteed minimum pension  
(GMP). Sadly Mrs Fs husband passed away after hed reached his state pension  age but 
before hed started to draw on the pension scheme  in question.
The company that had managed the pension fund couldnt offer an annuity and Mrs F was 
referred to L&G.
L&G provided Mrs F with a quote for her GMP of £6,237.12 on 2 May 2018.  This was sent to 
her with a cover letter that stated, pension annuity rates can go up or down, but the rates  
used to produce these  quotes are guaranteed until the date shown in the important 
information section. That date provided  was 6 June 2018.
Mrs F returned her acceptance of L&Gs GMP quote which  was received by them on 5 June, 
so within  the deadline. She was then informed by L&G that the pension funds had to be 
transferred before the end of the guaranteed  date to proceed  with that quote. There  was not 
enough time for that to happen so she was told that the quote  would  have to be recalculated 
when the fund transfer value was known.
Mrs F instructed solicitors  to represent  her and pursue her complaint with L&G.
L&G upheld the complaint. They explained that they agreed that Mrs F had been 
misinformed on the phone after theyd received her acceptance of her quote. They  explained 
that the pension was coming from Mrs Fs late husband and the income provided would be 
based on the GMP figure on the date of his death.
L&Gs response also explained that their actuaries had made mistakes in their calculations 
and L&G were still working with the pension provider to agree the correct GMP figure. L&G 
apologised for the delays  in miscalculating  the pension  annuity. They  backdated Mrs Fs 
annuity to November 2016 (when  her husband  died)  and offered £100  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
It took a further  five weeks  for L&G to respond to Mrs F with their correct  figure of her widow 
GMP. That figure was £4,296.60 . Although  acknowledging their mistake,  L&G said that they 
couldnt agree to pay the earlier incorrect GMP quote. They increased their offer of 
compensation from £100 to £500.
Mrs F was unhappy with L&Gs response  and her solicitor brought  her complaint to our 
service. They thought that L&G should have honoured the first quote  Mrs F was sent.  They 
also thought that the compensation offered wasnt enough and that L&G should pay for the 
legal costs Mrs F incurred in pursuing her complaint.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He agreed  that L&G had made a mistake 
but thought that what theyd done to address it was fair. Mrs F disagreed with the 
investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN17782692My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the issues raised by both sides and I have  real sympathy for the 
disappointment Mrs F must have experienced in finding out her annual  pension was lower 
than the quote she was given. I understand that she will be disappointed with my decision 
but Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case L&G provided Mrs F with incorrect information on the quote they provided for her 
annuity. The pension  fund in question was her husbands, which had a GMP that it had to 
provide. I dont think that the information that L&G provided Mrs F made her annuity clear  
and the responses  to her complaint didnt address it either. 
The quote  that L&G provided  Mrs F for her GMP had to be backdated to the date that her 
husband passed away. The GMP value was calculated based on HMRC  rules  so wasnt  
based on an annuity rate. So the GMP was never  going to be dependent on it being 
accepted by any given date. L&G seem  to have sent out the quote in a standard annuity 
format and in doing  so caused confusion. L&G had a responsibility to communicate with 
Mrs F in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. They failed  to do that.
L&G responded to Mrs Fs complaint 3 months  after Mrs F accepted the quote. As well as 
acknowledging that Mrs F had been  given incorrect information, they highlighted that their 
actuaries had in fact worked out Mrs Fs GMP incorrectly. The fact remains though  that over 
three months after Mrs F had accepted  her quote  and wanted  her pension processed,  she 
still did not know what her correct GMP was. It took a further 5 weeks  before L&G provided 
her with the correct  GMP value.
L&G clearly  made a mistake in the quote  they provided and the information  they sent with it. 
They became aware  that the GMP value  they quoted was wrong but were slow to let Mrs F 
know the correct  value. By any definition, the service L&G provided Mrs F fell short of what  I 
would expect.
I have to consider  the impact of these mistakes on Mrs F in determining  what L&G should do 
to put things right. If L&G hadnt  made the mistakes  that they did, Mrs F would have been  
offered the correct  GMP figure of £4,296.60  at the start. Because  Mrs F ultimately ended  up 
with the GMP that her husbands fund offered, I dont think that she suffered any financial 
loss because of the mistake  L&G made. Clearly her expectation was unfairly raised for 
several months. But I cant reasonably say that L&G should pay an annuity that Mrs F wasnt  
entitled to because of that.
L&G finally told Mrs F what her correct  GMP was in a letter she received on 
7 November 2018. Mrs Fs solicitor says she was not left enough  time to shop around for a 
better quote.  She believed that she needed  to have the annuity in place by 
14 November 2018 - within two years  of her husbands death - without there being income 
tax liabilities.
Mrs Fs solicitor says that Mrs F would  have sought  advice on alternative options had she 
known earlier that her GMP was £4,296.60 instead  of £6,237.  I can certainly  understand the 
disappointment given the fact her expectations had been raised. And as the income had 
dropped by a fairly large amount I can see why Mrs F wanted to look for alternatives  when 
she knew the correct  amount.  However, theres  not enough evidence  for me to say that she 
Ref: DRN17782693would have considered alternatives  if the correct  quote had been provided back  in May. I 
havent seen that she looked  for alternatives when she was given the original quote.  
And even  if I assume she would have looked for alternatives,  I dont think she would be in a 
different position  now.
I say this for the following  reasons. When Mrs F was given her final GMP figure it showed  
that the fund value  was £82,387.91. L&G have explained the fund size was not large enough 
to provide an annuity to the level of the GMP income  she was entitled to by the pension.  
They have shown  that the pension  provider transferred a larger  amount to L&G than her 
fund contained,  in order to make  up the shortfall in providing the GMP she was entitled  to.
If Mrs F had sought alternative quotes, any other pension  provider would  have had to have  
considered the fact that the pension fund had to provide the GMP. The pension fund value 
was £82,387.91 which L&G have shown was smaller than the amount needed for them  to 
provide the GMP  annuity. Its unlikely another provider would have been able to provide the 
GMP amount with a fund as low as Mrs Fs let alone  provide a higher income. And no other 
provider would have  been prepared to take on the obligation  to cover a shortfall.  A GMP also 
had to be provided as an annuity, so other options  to take the pension  werent  possible 
either. The options were  limited so I think its more likely than not that seeking alternatives 
wouldnt have provided Mrs F with a better income.
I understand that Mrs F instructed a solicitor to represent  her in pursuing this case, so has 
incurred legal costs.  Mrs F thinks that L&G should  meet these costs. I can see that Mrs F 
wouldnt have instructed a solicitor  if L&G hadnt  made a mistake with her GMP quote. But I 
dont think it follows that instructing  a solicitor was an inevitable  cost of L&Gs mistake. Mrs F 
could have made her complaint to L&G or brought her complaint to our service without legal 
representation. In this case though, Mrs F sought  legal  advice before  L&G had been made 
aware of Mrs Fs complaint or had a chance  to consider it. Mrs F was perfectly  entitled to 
seek legal  advice of course, but in this case,  I cant say that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to say that L&G were responsible for Mrs Fs choice  to do so.
As Ive said above  Mrs F had her expectations unfairly raised by L&Gs  mistake. She had 
months of frustration and uncertainty  caused  by L&Gs  delays in rectifying  their mistake. It 
took from June when she asked to go ahead  with her annuity until November before she 
finally had the accurate  value of her GMP. But, I think that £500 is a fair level of 
compensation to acknowledge  the trouble and upset that L&Gs  mistake and delays caused.
I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mrs F wanted but for the reasons above  I wont  
be instructing L&G to do anything other than pay the £500  compensation  already  offered.
Ref: DRN17782694My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has already made  an offer to pay £500 to 
settle the complaint and for the reasons Ive given  I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Legal and General Assurance  Society  Limited should pay £500 
compensation to Mrs F if it has not already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1778269