K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about Fairstone Financial Management (City)  Limited. He says that it 
failed to advise  upon and arrange the investment of pension funds which meant  he lost out 
as the funds were  held in cash when they should have been invested.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. An extract  from that 
decision is attached  below.
I decided that the complaint should be upheld. In summary I said:
The crux of Mr Js complaint is that he believes there was delay in the investment of 
his pension funds  and that Fairstone  is responsible for the delay.
Mr J was recorded as having a medium to high attitude to risk but it was noted that 
he had little capacity  for loss. Fairstone recommended a very low risk approach, 
placing all the transferred funds into cash. I dont think  that approach was 
unreasonable or unsuitable for Mr J in the short term but Im not satisfied that it would 
have been a reasonable long term approach. 
There was a record of an income  shortfall in retirement and so there was a need for 
growth. This was a substantial pension fund and I dont think  its conceivable  that 
leaving it in cash (with a return of less than 0.5 per cent)  would have been a realistic 
long term option. Mr J may have needed  to access some funds in the next few years 
but that should not have  prevented  investment in a drawdown arrangement.
I accept Mr Js evidence that he contacted  Fairstone in June 2016 and asked about 
investment. Ive not seen any evidence that Fairstone  took steps to review  the 
position and provide  investment advice,  and I think it is implicit from its advice  in 
March 2016 that it would do so. 
Im satisfied  that with further suitable advice  Mr J would have chosen to invest rather  
than leave the money in cash.  He did actually invest in 2017. 
I dont think it is reasonable to assume  that he would  have  invested  in March 2016.  
The advice given,  which Mr J accepted, was not to invest at that time (the NJM funds 
were not available in March 2016  either).
 
Fairstone has said that it didnt advise on the NJM scheme. Its true that the suitability 
report didnt refer to this as part of the funds to be invested  but its clear  that it was 
aware of the fund as it was taking steps to arrange  the transfer of it. No doubt the 
intention was that once the NJM funds were  transferred they would be invested  with 
the funds already  received. This is what actually happened later.
Overall, Im satisfied that with suitable  advice Mr J would have invested sooner and 
not left the funds  in cash but investment wouldnt have  taken place as soon as March 
2016.
Mr J didnt agree. He said, in summary:
Ref: DRN11191992The compensation should be calculated  from March 2016. He should not have been 
advised to disinvest and place funds  in cash.  If not from March, then the latest date 
should be July 2016.
The end date for calculation should be September 2017. Loss  should then be 
assessed by reference to the investments he actually made.
The market was not more volatile in early 2016.  There is data to evidence this.
The NJM funds  could  have been  available  in April 2016  if the business  had dealt with 
matters properly.
The fees should be reimbursed. The advice was bogus and there is no evidence  of 
market volatility.
Fairstone disagreed too. It said, in summary:
There was nothing  in its file to suggest  it advised on the NJM scheme.
There was no instruction to invest in June 2016. The intention  was that the funds be 
held in cash for five years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted all that has been said in response to my provisional decision but I dont see any 
reason to change  my conclusions.
I accept Mr Js testimony that investment into cash was to be a short  term option. I agree 
with him that short  term  would have been  for a period of less than one year and so before 
the next annual review.  I dont accept Fairstones argument that the funds  were  to be held in 
cash for five years. This directly contradicts the evidence from the fact-find. For example, the 
fact-find includes the following comments,  agreed  to invest on deposit for now,  no risk at 
current time and cash 100% but re-invested at a later date (original  emphasis).
The suitability letter states that the funds would initially be held in cash.
The gist of the advice was that the funds  would be sheltered for a while  given uncertainty  at 
the time in the lead up to the EU referendum. Ive considered the data Mr J has provided but 
Im not satisfied that the advice to disinvest and place the funds  in cash  in the short term was 
obviously wrong. It may have been cautious  but I dont think  it was wholly  unreasonable.
Im also satisfied that Fairstone was aware of the NJM fund and was involved in attempts to 
transfer it. There is e-mail correspondence  between Mr J and Fairstone dealing with the 
transfer and the charges for the work. I am satisfied that the adviser was attempting  to 
transfer the NJM fund with a view to consolidating this pension with the others. Mr J didnt  
take benefits from that pension at the time and Im satisfied that is not what  was being  
contemplated. It was invested along with the other funds.
Ref: DRN11191993Ive noted Mr Js comments on redress but Im satisfied that the method Ive proposed is fair 
in all the circumstances. I dont agree that the fees Fairstone charged for dealing with the 
transfer itself should  be refunded. The transfer was completed and the funds held in cash  as 
advised. Any further advice would have  involved  additional charges to Mr J.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Fairstone Financial Management (City)  Limited. It must 
calculate and pay redress as set out below.
For the purpose of assessing whether he has lost out, I think its fair to assume that Mr J 
would have invested by September 2016. So any loss should be calculated  by comparing 
the actual value of the pension fund at the date of my final decision with a notional  value 
assessed by applying the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Index total return to the cash  
value held (including the NJM scheme  transfer value) from 1 September  2016 to the date of 
the decision.
If the notional  value is higher than the actual value the difference  is the loss which  should  be 
paid into the pension fund.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If Fairstone is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Js pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid. The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Js actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Fairstone must also pay £300  for the inconvenience  it caused to Mr Js retirement planning.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11191994extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mr J has complained about  Fairstone Financial Management (City)  Limited.  He says that it failed  to 
advise upon and arrange  the investment of pension funds which  meant he lost out as the funds were 
held in cash  when they should have been invested.
background 
Mr J took advice from Fairstone about  his pension arrangements in late 2015.  He held a number  of 
personal pensions with a total value  of around £450,000. He also held an interest in a scheme with a 
former business (NJM  scheme) worth around £100,000.
Fairstone provided  advice in March 2016.  This noted  that Mr J was in his mid-sixties  and still working. 
He was in receipt of a state pension  and aimed  to retire  at seventy. It noted  that he had a medium-
high attitude to risk but that he had little capacity  for loss. He had an outstanding  mortgage and there 
was a shortfall on his income needs in retirement.
Fairstone provided  a suitability report which  recommended that the pension funds  should be 
consolidated into a retirement plan which  would  allow  Mr J to enter into a drawdown  arrangement. It 
recommended that the funds  should be held in cash initially so that Mr J took no risk. 
Mr J says that he understood  this was a short  term measure and that in due course there would  be 
investment advice. He says that he contacted Fairstone  as soon as June 2016 asking about  
investment advice but none  was ever provided.
Fairstone also became engaged in accessing  the funds  held in the NJM scheme  and this seems  to 
have taken longer than expected.  Ultimately  Mr J engaged another  firm to achieve  this.
The funds were left in cash  and Mr J complained  to Fairstone in March  2017. It did not uphold the 
complaint saying that the funds were held in cash in line with its advice and Mr Js objectives. The 
market was very volatile and unpredictable  at the time. Mr J had not asked to invest and it didnt  have 
any authority  to invest on his behalf  without  his involvement.
Mr J referred the complaint  to this service. He also took advice from another  adviser  and his funds, 
including the transfer value of the NJM fund, were invested in the latter part of 2017.
An investigator from this service considered the complaint and ultimately recommended that it should 
be upheld. She felt that Mr J ought to have been advised to invest and recommended  that redress 
should be calculated  by reference to the investment  growth Mr J may have achieved from March 2016 
had the funds  been invested in line with the recommendations of his new advisers.
Fairstone didnt agree.  It said, in summary, the investigators view was only reached with hindsight 
and its advice  had been based on Mr Js circumstances in 2015 and 2016.  It also said that the NJM 
scheme had not formed part of its advice. 
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive not reached the same conclusions as the 
adjudicator and so Ive decided to make a provisional  decision. I believe the complaint should  be 
upheld but I think redress should be calculated on a different basis.
Ref: DRN11191995I think  the crux of Mr Js complaint is that he believes there was delay in the investment of his pension 
funds and that Fairstone is responsible for the delay. Mr J hasnt complained specifically about the 
transfer of the personal pensions into the new retirement plan.
I wont repeat all of the factual background which has been set out by the investigator in her view.  I 
will address the issues most relevant to my decision.
Mr J was recorded  as having a medium  to high attitude  to risk but it was noted that he had little 
capacity for loss. Fairstone  recommended a very low risk approach, placing all the transferred funds 
into cash. I dont think that approach was unreasonable or unsuitable for Mr J in the short  term but Im 
not satisfied  that it would have been a reasonable  long term approach. The advice was given in early 
2016 when the markets  were volatile and in the lead up to the EU referendum with the uncertainty  
that presented.  And so its perhaps understandable that Mr J was advised not to invest at that time. 
But there was a record of an income shortfall in retirement and so there was a need for growth. This 
was a substantial pension fund and I dont think its conceivable that leaving it in cash (with a return  of 
less than 0.5 per cent) would have been a realistic  long term option.  Mr J may have needed to access 
some funds in the next few years but that should not have prevented investment  in a drawdown 
arrangement.
I accept Mr Js evidence that he contacted Fairstone in June 2016 and asked about investment. Ive 
not seen any evidence that Fairstone took steps to review  the position and provide investment advice 
and I think it is implicit from its advice  in March 2016 that it would do so. 
So Im satisfied that with further suitable advice  Mr J would have  chosen to invest  rather  than leave 
the money in cash. He did actually invest in 2017  once  he was advised  by another  firm. But I dont 
think its fair to assess  any loss by comparison with the investments he did actually go on to make. 
These were made later,  in different market conditions  and in slightly different  circumstances.
Also, I dont think it is reasonable to assume that he would have invested in March 2016. The advice 
given, which Mr J accepted, was not to invest at that time (the NJM funds  were not available  in March 
2016 either).
 
Fairstone has said that it didnt advise on the NJM scheme. Its true that the suitability  report  didnt 
refer to this as part of the funds to be invested but its clear that it was aware of the fund as it was 
taking steps to arrange the transfer of it. No doubt the intention was that once the NJM funds  were 
transferred they would  be invested with the funds already received. This is what  actually happened  
later.
Overall, Im satisfied that with suitable advice Mr J would have invested sooner  and not left the funds  
in cash  but investment  wouldnt have taken place as soon as March 2016.
 
For the purpose of assessing whether he has lost out, I think its fair to assume that Mr J would have 
invested by September 2016. So any loss should be calculated by comparing the actual value of the 
pension fund at the date of my final decision with a notional value assessed by applying the FTSE UK 
Private Investor Income Index total return to the cash value held (including  the NJM scheme transfer 
value) from 1 September  2016  to the date of the decision.
If the notional value is higher  than the actual value  the difference  is the loss which should be paid into 
the pension fund.
I dont agree that the fees Fairstone  charged for dealing with the transfer itself should  be refunded. 
The transfer  was completed and the funds held in cash as advised. Any further advice would  have 
involved additional charges  to Mr J.
I agree that Fairstone should pay £300 for the inconvenience it caused to Mr Js retirement planning.
Ref: DRN11191996my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint about Fairstone Financial  Management (City) Limited.
Ill consider any responses before making a final decision.
Ref: DRN1119199