K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy at a meeting in 2004 at the same  time as taking a further  
advance on their mortgage.
The PPI policy provided cover on Mr and Mrs M for disability  and unemployment, subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  The application form said the policy was to cover £25,000 of 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. The full benefit  would pay the monthly  mortgage  payment (which 
the mortgage offer says for £25,000 would initially be around £205) plus £3 for every  £1000 
of the initial  mortgage amount (around £75) and premiums for associated  home  insurance  if 
that was taken with Lloyds.  The benefit was split between Mr and Mrs M, so half the benefit 
would be paid for a successful  claim on either  one of them. Lloyds says the cost of the cover  
taken was £12.50 at the start.
According to the mortgage application  form they signed at the time, Mr M was employed as 
a rail worker and had been there for around  22 years and Mrs M was employed as a process 
supervisor and had been there for around 15 years. Mr and Mrs M have told us they were 
entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full sick pay and redundancy pay. Theyve 
told us they didnt have any other means  with which to make their mortgage  payments  if they 
couldnt work, and they were in good health  at the time. 
The offer of the further advance was made  in December 2004 and started in January 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ms representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr and Mrs M 
about the poor value; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim; 
Ref: DRN18570802The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted  
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The further advance  was arranged on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage after mortgage lending 
became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN18570803The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation, subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
Ref: DRN18570804drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ms 
favour of, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs M have said they had no 
interest in PPI and it was just included as part of the mortgage package.  But to take the PPI 
Mr and Mrs M signed a separate PPI application. So, it looks like the PPI was presented  as 
separate from the mortgage. Ive not seen anything from the time to suggest Mr and Mrs M 
had to take the PPI or had to sign the application  for it if they didnt want it. The mortgage  
offer, sent after the sale, says Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take any insurance with Lloyds. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs M say it didnt. But if Lloyds did 
provide advice it had to do more. With this in mind,  I think  its fair to proceed on the basis 
that Lloyds provided  advice.  This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Lloyds took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs M. As part of the mortgage application, the adviser  had some information  about 
Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances  for example the employment  status  and length of 
service of each of them. But I dont think Lloyds did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable 
and establish  Mr and Mrs M had a need  for it. For example, Ive nothing  to show that Lloyds 
asked Mr and Mrs M what redundancy or sickness benefits their employers provided.
The declaration signed by Mr and Mrs M on the PPI application, asked that they confirm  that 
they were working  at least 16 hours  per week, had been working for at least six months  and 
werent aware of any impending unemployment  or hospitalisation or receiving treatment for 
conditions of a persistent  or recurring nature. But I cant see that Lloyds established that all 
these points applied  to Mr and Mrs M before giving them the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN18570805While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy. If Mr or Mrs M became unemployed or too sick 
to work for a prolonged period, they wouldve suffered a loss of income. The benefit  paid 
by the policy  wouldve  helped  them manage the consequences of that at what could be a 
difficult time if Mr or Mrs M were disabled  or unemployed.  And Mr and Mrs M didnt have 
savings or anything else to help replace lost income.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. There  
was nothing about the employment or occupation of either  one of them which  wouldve 
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us of any pre-existing medical 
conditions that couldve affected  their ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the fact no benefit  was payable for the first 60 days  of 
disability or unemployment and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, including their employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  mightve helped during the policys 60-day qualification period),  the 
limits to those provisions and the loss of income they could suffer  if one or both of them 
were unable  to work for a prolonged period due to disability or unemployment; and
The fact the policy protected  mortgage payments relating to their home  and the potential 
consequences should Mr and Mrs M be unable to make the payments on loans secured 
against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs M were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  the policy without any sense  of what it was for and of how much  the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take the policy. 
Ref: DRN18570806Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr and Mrs M 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not 
Mr and Mrs M have  suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if 
Lloyds had explained things properly, Mr and Mrs M would have acted differently, or whether 
they would  have taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN18570807Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs M had some  interest  in taking PPI. By this I 
mean when  Lloyds offered the PPI or advised them there was a suitable product they could 
buy that would protect  their mortgage  payments in the event  they were  unable to work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As Ive earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them.  
Also, I consider  it likely Mr and Mrs M knew they would have to pay something for the PPI. It 
doesnt appear Lloyds told them the exact premium at the point they applied. But I dont think 
it likely  Mr and Mrs M wouldve agreed  to the PPI without having an idea of the approximate  
cost. Also,  if the cost when they came to pay it had been significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they mightve raised this with Lloyds  or 
reconsidered their decision. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M wouldve found the PPI cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the PPI. 
Also, Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs M would get back  if they 
made a successful claim. But I think its likely  they expected, if they werent also told, that in 
the event of a claim the policy would pay an amount sufficient to meet  the monthly mortgage 
payment for that part of the mortgage the policy was covering. So I think the policy at least  
met Mr and Mrs Ms likely  expectations about  that - and if anything actually paid more in the 
event of a claim than they wouldve  expected,  as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs M not only be unable  
to do his or her own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought he or 
she was or might  reasonably become qualified for in view of his or her training,  education  
and ability;
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (a health  
issue Mr or Mrs M knew or ought  to have known about at the policy start date or had 
seen or arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the start) re-occurring or 
occurring during the first 24 months  of cover (unless Mr or Mrs M remained symptom  
free and didnt  see a doctor for or get treatment for the condition for 24 months before 
the claim);
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN18570808I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  they didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I think they still 
had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  additional restrictions or 
more onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds  than would 
have applied  to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if Mr or Mrs M were not only 
unable to do his or her own job but also unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he 
or she was or might reasonably become  qualified  for in view of his or her training, education 
and ability, it might have played into their thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been  overly 
concerned given that if Mr or Mrs M were unable  to do his or her own job, the chances he or 
she would  be able to do a similar job would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs M that the first 60 days  of disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and may not have  told them  any claim they made would be limited to 
a 12 month  period. All this may have differed from what Mr and Mrs M expected  and might  
have hoped for. But if Mr or Mrs M had become for a prolonged period unable to work due to 
sickness or unemployment, they wouldve  suffered a loss of income. In those  circumstances, 
I consider it likely they wouldve still thought a policy that after 60 days  helped with mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months, would  be of benefit  to them  and would help them manage the 
consequences if either of them couldnt work  in the circumstances  covered by the PPI. The 
PPI allowed  multiple  claims to be made and could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult 
and uncertain time, helping to make it less likely their home would be placed  at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs M would  still have taken the policy. It was suitable for them, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr or Mrs M were made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve taken the PPI in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN18570809Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs M would  not have taken the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  it. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude Lloyds 
should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation,  as that would put them in a better  position  than 
they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
Ref: DRN185708010think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857080