K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has unfairly refused to 
pay his claim for the theft of his car and trailer.  Mr L is represented  by his mother, Mrs L.
background 
Mr Ls car and trailer were stolen from right outside of his house on his driveway. So he 
made a claim to Markerstudy. It refused to pay his claim because  initially it thought he had 
left the key in the car. And then when  it realised he hadnt, it decided he had left it unlocked.
Mr L complained but Markerstudy didnt change its mind. So he brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt  think Markerstudy had done anything wrong. Mr L didnt agree so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 March and said the following:
Markerstudy said in its letter to Mr L repudiating his claim dated 9 November 2017  
that he had left his car running  with the key in the ignition on 1 May 2017 the date his 
car and trailer was stolen. This is clearly wrong  as Mr L bought his car with only one 
key and he gave  that one key to Markerstudy.  This is fully detailed  in its investigators 
report (completed with the wrong  date of 3 April 2017),  which should have been 
dated around 10 May 2017. So I dont consider Markerstudy properly assessed this 
claim initially.
Markerstudy later, in its final response  letter of 20 February 2018,  said its decision to 
repudiate Mr Ls claim was correct based  on what Mr L said in (whats  now an 
inaccurate) police report and the consequent correcting of that which led to differing 
accounts of what  happened.
Mr L said when he first discovered his car has been  stolen he had no idea where his 
key was, as it wasnt on him and given his car was gone, his first reaction  was he 
must have  left the key in the car. Thats why the police report says this. However,  as 
Mr L then found  his key and gave  it to Markerstudy,  its obvious that his one key was 
not in the car at the time it was stolen. So that means naturally, what Mr L initially 
said to the police wasnt correct. Consequently,  I consider theres  no point in 
Markerstudy relying on that. Nor indeed is it logical  for Markerstudy to consider  this 
means that from the start Mr L was changing his story. I dont think  Mr L was 
changing his story,  in a way to make  him out to be an unreliable witness,  so that 
nothing he said could  be believed,  which is what Markerstudy is insinuating.
Mr L said he got his car and trailer  together in order to go to work. In doing  this, this 
meant his gate to the road had to be open as his car and trailer together,  didnt fit on 
his drive. He then left his car and trailer,  with his key in his pocket and did some  
chores. He got hot doing those chores  and so he took off his jacket  and left it on 
some feedbags. He finished his chores and went to get into his car and found  it had 
been stolen. It wasnt  until later that he found his jacket on the feedbags with his key 
in the pocket. 
And despite Mr Ls best efforts, he hasnt been able to correct  that initial police 
report. However given  the facts in this case, Markerstudy should not have relied  on 
this, as one of their reasons for declining his claim. Given the one key Mr L had, was 
Ref: DRN19627602found and indeed sent to Markerstudy, consequently  it obviously wasnt in the car 
when it was stolen.  Furthermore, since Mr L had the key and his type of car doesnt 
have keyless entry, there was no way it could have  been left running  at the time of 
the theft either.
Therefore, were left with just one issue in this case,  and that is whether Mr L left his 
car unlocked. Given Mr Ls account  (as detailed in Markerstudys investigators 
report) of how he stored both his vehicle and his trailer and indeed the care he goes 
to, to ensure both are safe and behind two lots of gates to his property when 
unhitched, I dont  put much  weight on the issue that initially  Mr L couldnt remember 
locking his car. I put much more weight on the fact that he said he usually does  lock 
his car. Mr L obviously cant prove  that, although  I would say the fact he had his one 
key goes some way to making it more probable he did lock his car. But neither can 
Markerstudy prove he didnt lock his car for reasons I will discuss  below. Therefore, I 
think on balance, he probably did lock his car.
In any event, whether  or not he locked  his car in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint is almost irrelevant, as the thieves didnt  have the key to drive it away. As 
Markerstudys investigator noted, Mr L lives in a rural area where the window of 
opportunity to steal his car was extremely small. This means even if the car was 
unlocked (which I dont  think it was)  the window of opportunity was nevertheless 
extremely small to drive  the car and trailer away in any event  without its one key. 
This smallness of the opportunity to steal his car as identified by Markerstudys 
investigator sadly points  to the fact that whoever stole Mr Ls car most probably had 
the means of getting into it, as well as starting it quickly  to drive it away. It would be 
unlikely in my view that if they had the means to starting and driving it away, which 
they obviously did, (given Mr L had his key), they then wouldnt have had the means  
of getting into it also.  So that points to the fact that it actually doesnt matter that 
much whether or not Mr Ls car was locked. Mr L also produced various reports  of 
car being stolen  in his area at the time. And the media is full of issues of various 
devices being  readily available to steal cars such as Mr Ls, even though his wasnt  
keyless, being an older model.  Markerstudy  never investigated this or it seemed  to 
want to consider it. I dont  consider that to be either fair or reasonable. 
Lastly, there was a witness  across the road, who heard Mr Ls car being  driven  away  
and who also apparently heard some banging.  It doesnt seem Markerstudy or its 
investigators sought to make any contact of this witness to find out what  precisely 
they heard,  which I consider it ought  to have done in its assessment of his claim.
Mr L has said he never received the full policy wording from the broker  who sold this 
policy to him on Markerstudys  behalf  and wasnt aware of the provisions of taking 
care of his car along with the exclusions to including leaving  the keys in the car. But 
as this has nothing  to do with Markerstudy,  I cant consider it here. It appears that 
was for his broker to do, and not Markerstudy. However given  Mr L had his key and I 
consider on balance he locked his car, neither of this issues  are relevant. I will 
however say that these keys in car exclusions are common throughout many motor  
insurers terms and conditions, but we do expect them to be properly brought to the 
policyholders attention.
So I think Markerstudy to should  pay Mr Ls claim subject to the remainder of the 
policy terms and conditions. It should seek to agree the market value of his car using 
Ref: DRN19627603the usual industry  trade guides  and pay that market value to Mr L, less his excess. It 
should also add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it 
pays him.
Obviously, Markerstudys lack of coherent investigation into the theft of Mr Ls car, 
and its refusal to pay his claim has caused  Mr L considerable distress and indeed 
inconvenience. I dont  consider Markerstudy investigated his claim coherently and I 
think it consequently put Mr L to extensive time and trouble in trying to correct  the 
police report needlessly. So I think Markerstudy  should pay Mr L £600  compensation 
for this.
Additionally given Mr L was both without  his car and then without the market value of 
his car, he obviously suffered a loss of use too. Mrs L has told us that following the 
theft, Mr L had the use of a car from a friend  from 1 May to 14 May. He was also 
looking for a new car for himself. He thought  hed found one and so he asked 
Markerstudy to cover  it on his existing  policy. It charged him another £88.30.  But Mr 
L then changed his mind  and didnt actually buy this car. He asked Markerstudy  to 
cancel this further cover within the 14 day cooling off period but it refused. He then 
brought another vehicle  on 14 May 2017  and insured it elsewhere. 
Mr Ls policy started on 1 March 2017  and was due to expire on 1 March 2018. He 
insured himself elsewhere on 14 May 2017 given Markerstudy appeared to make no 
efforts to sort out his intended replacement vehicle cover. From what  Mrs L has 
shown me Mr L paid his premium instalments  from 24 February 2017 paying  £76.08  
initially, then £35.30 per month all the way through to January 2018, plus paying an 
additional payment of £88.30 in May.  This meant  that Mr L was doubly  insured for the 
period from 14 May 2017 to 1 March  2018,  which isnt fair or reasonable. As Mr L 
was entitled to substitute another  vehicle on his policy, I consider Markerstudy should 
now refund  Mr M either all the premium instalments on this policy  from 1 May 2017 to 
1 March 2018, or all the premium instalments he paid on other his new policy from 14 
May 2017 to 1 March 2018, whichever  is the greater. Interest of 8% simple per year 
should be added from the date Mr L paid each instalment to the date of its refund to 
him. 
From a loss of use basis, Mr L clearly and properly mitigated his loss, first by 
borrowing his friends car and secondly  by buying himself another.  And whilst he had 
the use of another vehicle, it clearly wasnt of the type he had chosen which was 
needed to run his business. Therefore, I consider  in the particular circumstances of 
this complaint, it should pay Mr L a loss of use of £10 per day from 1 May 2017  to 14 
May 2018 making a total of £140, again adding interest of 8% simple per year from 1 
May 2017 until the date it pays him.
Mrs L on behalf of Mr L agreed  with my provisional decision. But she clarified that Mr L had 
actually borrowed his friends car from 1 May 2017 to the 5 June 2017.  And he insured his 
new car elsewhere from 5 June  2017.  She was concerned about what  date I said 
Markerstudy should refund the premium  for, as she wasnt  sure if it was including all of 
March 2018. 
She explained that due to the theft Mr L had to cancel jobs for his customers  and lost all his 
tools in his car and trailer.  She said the tools amounted to £4,378.54 inclusive of any VAT 
and he had just filled up his car with £40 worth of petrol. She thought  this should be 
considered too.
Ref: DRN19627604Markerstudy said it agreed to pay Mr L the market value of his car with interest  from the date 
of the theft. But it didnt  think it had to refund any premium because it was now paying out on 
his claim.  It said its policy was a specialist  4x4 policy  and the car Mr L was trying  to 
substitute, wasnt a 4x4 which  is why it couldnt insure it. But it agreed the £88.30 should be 
refunded. It also didnt agree to any loss of use payment because  Mr L was able to borrow  
his friends car. And it agreed to the compensation payment of £600.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, whilst Markerstudys consideration of Mr Ls claim for the theft of his car could have 
been much  better, it didnt cause the theft,  so its not responsible  for Mr Ls loss of work  for 
the day of the theft, or the rescheduling his work afterwards or indeed the loss of his tools. 
Its only responsible  for dealing with his claim for the theft of his car and any distress  and 
inconvenience its failure in doing  that properly, caused him. Its also not responsible for the 
cost of the loss of the petrol given Mr L had filled his car, as that doesnt affect the market  
value of his car. The thief is responsible otherwise,  not Markerstudy.  Markerstudys duty is 
only in dealing with Mr Ls claim;  it has no duty whatsoever otherwise to compensate Mr L 
because the theft occurred.
Ive also looked  at Mr Ls policy and it doesnt provide any cover for anything  in his car when 
it was stolen, other than up to a maximum of £200  for any personal  belongings. Therefore, 
theres no duty on Markerstudy to pay for the loss of his tools. Indeed  his policy  specifically 
excludes business equipment, which Mr Ls tools would be classed as, given those  tools  
were to enable him carry out his business.  Mr L would  have  had to have taken  out other 
insurance to cover any loss of his tools.  But obviously Markerstudy should consider any loss 
of such personal equipment (not Mr Ls tools)  if Mr L now adds that to his claim.
Its clear to me that Mr L was insured by both Markerstudy and another  insurer from 5 June 
2017 onwards  and its clear he also continued  paying his premium instalments to 
Markerstudy from June 2017 until his policy  with Markerstudy expired on 1 March  2018. 
Its also clear  the car he insured elsewhere  on 5 June was a 4x4. Mr L in a desperate  
attempt to mitigate his loss was thinking  of buying a car that wasnt  a 4x4. But Ive no 
evidence that Markerstudy explained  he could only insure a 4x4 on this policy.  So I dont 
think its reasonable Mr L was disadvantaged  by that wish and his attempt to mitigate his 
loss, and I note Markerstudy are now will to refund the £88.30  it took from him for that.
However, I remain of the view that its wholly unfair  Mr L was paying for two policies covering 
the same  time period.  Therefore, I consider that Markerstudy should refund Mr L the 
premiums he paid to the other insurer from 5 June 2017 to 1 March  2018 only and not 
beyond that date. Mrs L said Mr L paid a deposit of £46.17 and then 10 monthly instalments 
of £46.26 so the precise figure (depending on the actual date of the instalment payment) is 
capable now of being ascertained correctly.
Turning now to Mr Ls loss of use, just because Mr L was able to borrow  a car from his 
friend, doesnt mean theres no loss of use. Given that obviously his friend was without the 
use of his car, which no doubt  impacted.  Its not the situation  that Mr L was able to use 
another car in his household. So I remain of the view that in the very particular 
Ref: DRN19627605circumstances of this case,  a loss of use award  is warranted, more especially as Mr L was 
wrongly without the market value of his car until now. Therefore, I consider a loss of use of 
£10 per day from 1 May 2017 to 5 June  2017  is appropriate.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr L the market  value of his car less his excess  and subject to remaining terms 
of his policy. Add interest of 8% simple  per year from the date of the theft being 1 
May 2017 to the date it pays him the market  value.*
Consider any claim  for loss of personal  belongings  in the car in line with the policy  
terms and conditions.
Refund the premium  instalments that he paid from 5 June 2017 to 1 March 2018, 
(including the additional £88.30 he paid to Markerstudy) on his new policy,  on seeing 
the proof of payment.  Add interest  of 8% simple per year from date he paid each 
premium instalment to the date of its refund to him.*
Pay him a loss of use at £10 per day from 1 May 2017 to 5 June 2017. Add interest 
of 8% simple per year from the 1 May 2017 to date it pays him.*
Pay him £600 compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience he suffered.
*If Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its taken off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1962760