K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were mis-sold a life cover plan by Britannia  Building 
Society, now the Co-operative Bank Plc (the business).
background
In 1989 Mr and Mrs G took out a life cover plan - called a Mortgage  Protection Plan in the 
letter sent to them by the business on 7 November 1989. The plan provided life cover of 
£45,000 over a 25 year term and was in line with the mortgage they had recently taken out.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. She 
said that she wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were advised  to take out the plan as there 
was no evidence that advice had been given. She said they were given information about  
the plan including a quote and it was their decision whether  they wanted the cover provided  
by the plan. 
The investigator also said that even if she thought advice had been  given she wouldnt 
uphold the complaint, as life cover for a mortgage is sensible. She noted Mr and Mrs G had 
referred to the employee benefits  they had at the time which couldve covered the mortgage. 
But she said that such benefits werent guaranteed  and could be withdrawn or come  to an 
end if they left their employment.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. They made various comments about the 
way their complaint  had been investigated  by the business, which I have not set out as they 
arent relevant to what their complaint is about.   In short they made the following points 
about the investigators findings:
Mr G was definitely at the meeting when the plan was discussed  and it is 
disrespectful that the investigator should tell them what happened.
How can the investigator  say that they delayed returning the proposal form. The plan 
schedule was dated 4 September 1989 with a commencement date of 6 October  
1989.
The investigator seems happy  to interpret their actions as negative  but treat the 
business as if it has done nothing wrong  despite the appalling  level of communication 
from it during the process.
Mrs G was a civil servant so her work benefits wouldnt be withdrawn.
How can the investigator  know they werent  advised? The covering letter  sent by the 
business asked  them to return the forms, it didnt  ask them  if they wanted cover.
The business had nothing  further to add. As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator  
the matter has been  referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the initial confusion about what Mr and Mrs G are complaining  about  as it was treated 
initially as a complaint about PPI through no fault of theirs. The complaint has always been  
about the Mortgage Protection Plan  a life cover  plan not PPI. These  are very different 
products and the wide mis-selling of PPI policies isnt something that happened with regard 
Ref: DRN11885652to life cover  for mortgages - such cover  is generally  considered a sensible and suitable  thing  
to take out.
I want to make clear that the way that the business dealt with the complaint has no bearing 
on the complaint  itself.  In other  words  if I thought it didnt  deal with the complaint process  as 
well as it couldve done  and I make no finding on this - this doesnt  show it did anything 
wrong at the time the plan was sold
I also think it is important to make  clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance 
of probabilities  what is more likely  than not  based on the evidence that is available. It is 
for me to decide what weight to give to the evidence provided. I have pointed this out 
because Mr and Mrs Gs evidence that the business  did something wrong is based on their 
recollection of what happened  30 years ago. Memories from so long ago are unlikely to be 
either accurate or complete and are generally  not persuasive evidence  where there  is no 
other supporting evidence.
According to Mr and Mrs G the plan was discussed when they went  in to discuss  other 
things and they mentioned the mortgage they had recently taken out. I dont think  it really  
matters in what way the discussion  arose. If it was as a result  of what  was said in a meeting 
about something else this doesnt mean  the business did anything wrong. It would be quite 
normal for a business  to refer to life cover  upon  being made  aware of a potential need for 
such cover  even if the meeting initially wasnt about that.
I note there  is an issue about whether Mr and Mrs G were both at the meeting. I can see no 
reason why the letter with the proposal form wouldve made specific mention of the meeting 
being solely with Mrs G if Mr G was also there. But I dont think this is a significant issue as 
even if he was there that doesnt provide any evidence the business did anything wrong. 
There is an issue about whether Mr and Mrs G were advised  to take out the plan. They have 
said the adviser questioned what would happen  if one of them  died and this made them 
fearful. They have  also said the person they spoke to insisted they needed  the plan and they 
were unfairly frightened  into signing a document and werent given any information on how 
the plan might help them.
As I have already  made  clear Mr and Mrs Gs recollections arent  persuasive evidence  of 
what happened. On one hand they say they werent told what  the plan did, but at the same 
time say they were  frightened into taking out the plan because of what the person at the 
business said about what would happen  if one of them died. So even on their own evidence 
they knew the plan related to their potential deaths.
Even if I accepted they werent provided with the documents that wouldve normally been 
sent by the provider, such as the policy booklet - and I think  it is more  likely than not these 
were sent to them - they received a schedule, which they have referred  to, and which sets 
out the benefit as being  £45,000 on the death  of either of them. 
The person  they spoke  to is also likely  to have told them of the benefits of the plan and the 
consequences to them if one of them died without any cover. If this frightened Mr and Mrs G 
this is unfortunate.  But I dont think the person did anything wrong in making this clear to 
them. 
Im not persuaded that the person they spoke  to insisted they take out the plan, and it is 
difficult to see on what basis Mr and Mrs G couldve been forced to take out the plan given  
Ref: DRN11885653they already had the mortgage.  If advice wasnt given then they had to be given the 
information they needed to decide  if they wanted  the plan. I am not satisfied they werent  
provided with the relevant information.  I think they probably chose to take out the plan at the 
time because they wanted to make sure the mortgage would be paid off if one of them  died 
based on the information they had been  given.
Even if I had been satisfied they were advised to take out the plan, such advice was clearly  
suitable. They have  not suggested they had any existing plans that provided such  cover.  
They have referred to employee  benefits but these are not generally suitable for providing  
cover for a mortgage  because the benefits  arent guaranteed.  
I note what Mrs G has said about  being  a civil servant. But there was no certainty  she would 
remain as one throughout the term of the mortgage. In Mr Gs case his benefits didnt even 
include death-in-service  benefit, so wouldnt have  paid the mortgage off if he died. And it is 
also of note he became  self employed in 1994  so lost any employee benefits at that time - 
which emphasises why such  benefits arent suitable as cover  for a mortgage.
In summary  if advice wasnt given I think Mr and Mrs G were  given the information  they 
needed to decide if they wanted the plan. If advice was given such advice was clearly 
suitable. I am not satisfied they were  put under any undue pressure to take out the plan.
One final point  I would  make is about  what Mr and Mrs G have said about paying the 
premiums throughout  the term and having no benefit from doing so. But the benefit is that 
the plan will pay the mortgage amount if one of them  dies at any time during the term. The 
fact they have thankfully not had cause to make a claim does not mean the plan didnt have 
a benefit. It is the same  as any other insurance,  such as motor,  travel or house insurance,  
where you pay a premium but payment  is only made if you have a reason to make a claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.  
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1188565