K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a used car he got with finance  provided by BMW Financial  Services 
(GB) Limited (BMWFS) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr T got this car in May 2016 with a hire purchase agreement (HPA). The car was five years 
old, cost nearly £11,000 and had over 55,000 miles on the clock.  Mr T had some trouble with 
the car quite  early  on - it failed to start,  amongst other things. The dealer replaced parts 
including two fuel injectors, at no cost to Mr T, but he experienced further issues.  The dealer 
carried out additional repairs and one monthly payment was refunded.  Mr T was reluctant to 
take the car back, as he felt it was unsafe.  But, it was agreed (in June  2016)  that the dealer 
would replace the remaining two injectors and BMWFS  would provide an extended warranty. 
Mr T accepted this resolution  to his complaint at the time. 
In July 2018 Mr T paid another dealer nearly  £700 to replace rear brake  pads and discs.  He 
thinks this is unfair as he was told these  parts  were  replaced shortly  before he got the car. 
He says he only drove the car about  18,000  miles after that, rear brake pads  and discs  
shouldnt need  replacing so soon  and the car was mis-sold. Mr T is also unhappy with the 
way that BMWFS responded  to his complaint. He says this affected his health  and he bought 
himself out of the finance agreement to see an end to the matter.  He wants  BMWFS to 
refund the cost of the repairs and pay appropriate compensation. 
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. She was satisfied  that Mr T was able to 
drive the car a reasonable distance after supply before  he had to replace rear brake  pads 
and discs. She thought these parts are generally  considered service  items and the repairs  
needed were probably due to wear and tear. And she didnt  recommend  the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr T disagreed and said (in summary) the service  book  shows that rear brake pads and 
discs were replaced around 51,000  miles and they shouldnt have needed  replacing  after 
only another 18,000 miles.  He doesnt  think they were replaced pre-sale when the dealer 
said and he considers the car was mis-sold and of unsatisfactory quality. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on 2 March 2020 and Ive summarised my provisional findings 
below. 
Mr T went to some  trouble  to provide very detailed submissions. And I considered  everything 
that he said and sent to us carefully. But, if I didnt  address every  point he raised specifically, 
thats because  I concentrated on what I thought was relevant and material to reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome overall.  Where evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I would reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.  
Mr T had raised a complaint about  this car with our service previously. I thought there was 
some confusion at times in correspondence about what Mr Ts current  complaint is about 
Ref: DRN16244492exactly so I spoke to Mr T. He confirmed that the crux of the matter Im looking at here is he 
believes a misrepresentation was made before he got this car. He says the dealer told him 
rear brake  pads and discs  were replaced a few months previously and showed him a related 
entry in the service book. He relied on that and would not have accepted  the car and the 
finance otherwise.  Mr T was also unhappy  with the supplying dealers after sale service. I 
explained that, whilst I could consider representations made by the dealer pre-sale in this 
complaint against  BMWFS, I couldnt  hold BMWFS liable for things that the dealer said and 
did after the car was supplied.  
There was no dispute that Mr T paid for new rear pads and discs to be fitted to the car in 
July 2018. He said hed only covered about  18,000 miles at that stage but I didnt  think that 
was quite right as the relevant invoice  says the car had just over 73,000  miles on the clock  
when that work was done. The HPA says the mileage at the point of supply was 55,000 - so 
I could see where the 18,000 miles might have  come from. But, the service  book  says rear 
pads and discs  were replaced  at 51,862 miles - which suggested about 21,000 miles had 
been covered  before  Mr T paid for new parts in July 2018. I accepted thats  not a huge  
difference but I felt it was important to be clear, in these circumstances. 
I understood Mr T thinks the rear pads and discs  couldnt have been  replaced when the 
supplying dealer says they were - or he would have been  able to drive much further before 
they had to be replaced again. I couldnt  be certain  what was said during pre-sale 
discussions between Mr T and the dealer but, having spoken to Mr T, I found what  he said 
he was told about  the brakes to be credible. I thought this was something  Mr T and the 
dealer probably  discussed during their pre-sale conversation - and this is consistent with the 
service book entry referred to above. For me to find that this amounted to a 
misrepresentation however, Id have to be persuaded that the rear brake pads and discs  
were not replaced  when  the dealer said they were  - and I would need to be satisfied that its 
likely Mr T wouldnt  have accepted this particular car and the HPA if he hadnt been  told that 
these parts were fairly new. 
The service  book that says rear brake  pads and discs were replaced  in January 2016 - some  
two months before Mr T acquired the car. I appreciated  Mr T considered this could not be 
right and he thought  it was relatively  easy to re-set  the cars  computer to make it look as if 
the work  was done and the service book could have  been falsified. I thought that was a fairly  
serious allegation and explained that Id need  some fairly compelling evidence  to reasonably 
conclude thats  what happened. 
Based on the information I had, I was satisfied  that the supplying  dealer seems to have 
carried out a fairly  comprehensive inspection pre-sale. Id seen paperwork that shows front 
brake pads  and discs  were replaced  at a cost of over £700. And I thought the dealer  
appeared to have replaced parts as necessary at that time. On balance, I considered it was 
more likely than not the rear brake pads and discs were inspected  pre-sale and the dealer 
would have replaced those parts as well, if they had been worn. I thought the fact that the 
dealer didnt do so suggested the parts were not in need of repair - which is consistent with 
having been replaced 3,000 miles before.  
I appreciated Mr T feels he had to replace  these parts far too soon - he told me that hes 
always driven this brand  of car and never  had to replace rear pads  and discs  after such  low 
mileage in the past. I understood  his frustration. But, I thought Mr T accepted that brake 
pads and discs  are generally  considered  wear  and tear items. I was satisfied that the life of 
this sort of consumable will be affected by many variables - which is one of the reasons that 
Ref: DRN16244493manufacturers generally only give an estimated  range  of travel and won't guarantee a 
specific mileage. 
On balance, I thought it was more likely  than not the rear brake pads and discs  here were 
replaced in line with the entry in the service book. I was not persuaded this was 
misrepresented to Mr T. And, even if I were satisfied  that that this had been misrepresented, 
Id have to consider whether Mr T is likely  to have accepted the car otherwise. I thought Mr T 
probably took a number  of factors into account when he decided  on this particular car - 
including the brand, price and mileage, amongst other things. I wasnt persuaded, on 
balance, that hes unlikely to have accepted this car if he hadnt been told the rear pads and 
discs were fairly new.  
Based on the evidence  I had, I wasnt satisfied that there were  sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to find that the dealer made  a misrepresentation that induced  Mr T to acquire this 
car. I was not minded  to find the rear brake pads and discs were  of unsatisfactory  quality at 
the point of supply. And I couldnt fairly require BMWFS to reimburse the cost of repairs or 
do anything further.  
Mr T told me that he felt misled in other ways. He thought fuel injectors, which  should  have  
been replaced when his previous complaint was resolved,  werent actually fitted. I asked 
BMWFS about  that. It supplied invoices showing all four injectors  were  replaced in 2016  and 
we sent copies to Mr T for him to consider. Mr T also told me that the car had no residual 
value when the finance agreement ended last year and he felt this was unfair as the 
salesman said (at the outset) the car should  be worth about  £2,000 at that point. 
From our discussion, I thought that Mr T accepted  many things may influence  the value of a 
used car - and he appreciated  what the salesman may have said about potential  future value  
probably wouldnt amount  to a guarantee, in this situation. I couldnt see that Mr T had raised 
this issue previously with BMWFS  so it wasnt something that I could  determine  in this 
complaint. I explained  its open to Mr T to take this up with BMWFS and, if hes unhappy with 
the response, he may be able to bring  another complaint to our service. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and/or evidence  by 16 March  
2020 and said I would  review the evidence available after that date and make my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The time I set for the parties  to respond  to my provisional decision has now passed. BMWFS 
has accepted  my provisional conclusions and Mr T has not made any further submissions. 
So, I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Ref: DRN16244494Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1624449