K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a ticket he purchased using his National  Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) credit card wasnt what he ordered.  He would like NatWest to refund the cost of 
the ticket  approximately £175
background
Mr B says in March 2018 he paid £175 for a concert ticket using his NatWest credit card. He 
says when he bought the ticket there were two options  standing tickets at the front (ticket 
A) or standing at the  back (ticket  B) He says the front tickets  were more expensive  and that 
was what he ordered.
But Mr B says when he got the ticket although  he had paid the higher price he had been 
given a ticket  for the back not the front. He says the difference in price  was around £75.
He says he raised this with NatWest in an attempt to get his money back. He says although  
NatWest raised a Chargeback request this was rejected on the basis  that the ticket  area had 
not been guaranteed.
Mr B didnt agree with this and says he has given  some evidence to show  that when booking 
the ticket two different prices were  shown for the two different areas. He says there was no 
option to buy a generic ticket. And said no one would be happy to pay a higher  price for the 
A ticket only to receive the B ticket
He says he didnt  use the ticket but instead bought one from a different retailer.  Although he 
initially wanted NatWest  to refund the difference in the ticket prices  he now wanted a full 
refund of the cost of the ticket
NatWest said it considered a Chargeback request applying a temporary credit to Mr Bs 
account whilst its investigations were ongoing.  Unfortunately the retailer contested the 
Chargeback. On the basis the retailer showed no specific area was noted on the order  form 
or email confirmation it didnt feel it could pursue the Chargeback any further. It then re 
debited the credit for the ticket it had applied to Mr Bs account.
NatWest also disputed  the evidence Mr B sent in from the retailers  website. It said it couldnt 
explain how Mr B could  have bought  a ticket with out specifying a particular section. 
However it said the price  Mr B paid wouldnt have put him in Section A as the prices for 
those tickets were much  more expensive.  It didnt feel the evidence supported Mr Bs claim.
On our investigators suggestion  NatWest also considered a section  75 Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA) 1974 claim. But concluded there  was no information to prove a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN13584602Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that NatWest  had properly 
considered both a Chargeback request and a Section 75 claim.
She didnt  feel there was sufficient evidence to show Mr B selected a particular ticket or that 
he had been charged a higher amount for a lower value ticket.   She  didnt feel a Section 75 
claim was appropriate  as the claim had to be for goods over £100 but the different  in the 
ticket value was less than this. But also she didnt  feel there was sufficient evidence  to show  
Mr B didnt get what he ordered.
NatWest accepted this view but Mr B didnt.
Mr B said that he asked NatWest to refund the full cost of the ticket, as this was over £100 it 
would qualify to be considered for a Section 75 claim.
He said he strongly believed the ticket  had been misrepresented.  
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She accepted Mr B 
wanted a full refund of the cost of the ticket so that would put the claim within the remit of a 
Section 75 claim. However, as she had explained in her first view, she still felt there wasnt  
sufficient evidence to show Mr B didnt get what he ordered. So on that basis  didnt feel that 
Mr B had a valid claim under Section 75.
She noted that Mr B still felt the ticket had been misrepresented and confirmed  his complaint 
would be put forward for an Ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  strongly about this so I appreciate his is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same  view as our investigator.
Looking at the information I have  been given I can see that NatWest considered both a 
Chargeback request and a Section 75 claim. I think it might  be helpful if I explain how these 
work.
The Chargeback scheme  is a voluntary  scheme. Banks dont have  to put in a Chargeback 
request if they dont  feel there are strong  grounds to do so. NatWest  did put in a Chargeback  
request and it followed the correct procedure in applying a temporary  refund back to Mr Bs 
account.
Merchants have the right to defend  Chargeback requests which  is what  happened here. 
Looking at the information the merchant provided   an email confirmation which didnt state  
a particular type of ticket   I dont think it was unreasonable  for NatWest not to pursue the 
claim any further. It then re debited Mr Bs accounts  the cost of the ticket.
For a Section 75 claim there are several  criteria  that need to be met. One of which  is that the 
amount being  claimed has to be over £100.  I accept Mr B wanted the full cost of his ticket  
which was over £100 to be refunded. So his claim did meet that criterion.
Ref: DRN13584603But for a claim to be successful there has to be proof of a breach of contract  and/or  
misrepresentation. Mr B feels  he has shown  that with the website screen shots  he has 
provided.
I have considered these  very carefully.  They  do seem to show  an option to select two 
different sorts of tickets  A and B. NatWest has acknowledged that and said it doesnt 
understand how Mr B could have not chosen one or the other. Neither  do I. 
As the concert took place  in 2018 there is no live website for me to look at. So I dont know if 
there was also, on another page, an option  to select a price but not a specific area.
NatWest has pointed  out the ticket  prices dont correlate with the payment Mr B made. He 
has told us his ticket  cost £169.39  for an A ticket. The cheapest A tickets are over £300 on 
the screen shot that Mr B gave us. The B tickets start from £100. So even if I accept Mr B 
had to choose an A or B ticket the information he has given us doesnt correlate with what he 
paid. 
And I would have to conclude  looking  at the figures that if he did chose a specific ticket, 
based on what he paid,  and the price  information on the screen shot, its more likely that he 
chose a B rather than an A ticket.
For a Section 75 claim to be successful  Mr B would have to show  evidence  of breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation.  Unfortunately  the only proof  of what Mr B purchased is 
the order information supplied by the merchant. That doesnt  support what Mr B has told us 
as it doesnt confirm a particular  type of ticket.
And whilst the information Mr B has provided  might  show he would have had to chose either  
an A or B ticket it doesnt confirm what Mr B paid for. So I dont feel that NatWest were  
wrong to conclude there was no evidence to pursue a Section 75 claim. And on that basis I 
dont feel I can reasonably expect NatWest to refund the cost of the ticket  as Mr B would 
like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358460