K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a claim for non-refundable  holiday  costs made under a travel  
insurance policy from ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV). Mr P says the claim has been 
incorrectly declined.
Background
In July 2018, Mr P booked  and paid for a family holiday which  was due to take place in 
November of the same year. At the same  time he purchased  a travel insurance policy,  
insured with ERV.  
Mr Ps stepson suffers from mental  health  issues. Hes registered  disabled and attends a 
school for students  who require  additional  social, mental health and emotional support.
In October, whilst on another holiday,  Mr Ps stepson suffered a significant decline in his 
mental health. Because of this, Mr P decided to cancel  the trip in question. He said the trip 
was cancelled as it would  have been detrimental  to his stepsons health  if he was taken out 
of his routine to go on this holiday  Mr P explained  that being  in a normal  routine would aid 
his recovery. 
Mr P also said that it wasnt appropriate for the GP to be consulted at the time  he has told 
us the GP would simply refer the matter to a mental health team and that this process can 
take a long time. But the situation  was discussed  and agreed with his stepsons  school. He 
provided correspondence from the head  teacher which confirmed that the school had 
withdrawn consent  for the trip  which was to take place during  the normal school term.
ERV declined the claim as it said it didnt have  evidence  that the cause of the cancellation of 
the trip was for one of the reasons covered by the policy. It said cover is provided for 
cancellation due to the illness of an insured  person, but that it needed evidence it was 
medically necessary.  The information from the school (both from the email provided from 
Mr P and a conversation  ERV had with the head  teacher) didnt confirm the reason for 
cancelling the trip was as a result of a medical necessity, So ERV said there  was no 
evidence to support  that it was medically  necessary  for Mr P to cancel the trip. It therefore 
refused to pay the claim. Mr P was unhappy with this outcome so he referred  the complaint 
to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She agreed with ERV that the evidence from 
the head teacher wasnt enough  to demonstrate  that the holiday had been cancelled on 
medical grounds. She referred to both the email and the conversation  with the school and 
said that these  indicate the reason why consent for the trip was withdrawn was attendance 
issues and a need to be in school  during  term time, rather than specifically due to medical 
reasons.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As a result  Ive decided not to uphold 
Ref: DRN18771102Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for him and Ill explain my 
reasons for reaching this outcome.
As is commonplace  with insurance policies, ERVs policy doesnt provide cover  for every 
eventuality. But as long as ERV sets out what is and isnt covered by the policy in its terms 
and conditions, it can decline to pay for anything which is not covered by the policy.
So I need to decide if ERV has applied  its terms fairly.
Mr Ps claim was for the cancellation of a holiday. Under the cancellation section of the 
policy wording it provides cover for certain  events, which are listed.  One of those listed  
events is the illness  of anyone insured by the policy. So based on what Mr P has said, it was 
the illness of his stepson which caused the cancellation of the trip, meaning that he had a 
valid reason for cancellation, under the policy terms. But the policy also lists reasons why 
ERV may not consider a claim  for an insured event and it includes the following term;
What is not covered
1.Any claims on medical grounds where  you fail to provide  a medical certificate  or 
other suitable evidence from a medical practitioner of the need  to cancel the trip.
  
As I understand it, Mr Ps stepson didnt see his GP or any other medical  professional 
following his mental  health breakdown. So such medical evidence isnt available. But, due to 
the rather unusual  nature of this case, ERV did agree to consider the evidence  of the head 
teacher from the school  as being  from the most appropriate professional. In the 
circumstances I think ERV acted  fairly  by doing  that.
The email  Mr P supplied  from the school stated the reason  for the withdrawal of the consent  
for the holiday was due to an attendance  issue . This doesnt confirm  the cancellation of the 
trip was due to a need on medical  grounds. ERV also spoke to the head teacher to obtain 
more information  and I have listened  to the recording of that conversation.  In the call, the 
head teacher  states the school has to be conscious  about how much time off the students 
have in term time. He said as Mr Ps stepson had already taken time out of the school year,  
it wasnt considered  a good idea for him to have more time off and so the schools consent 
was withdrawn for the November trip. 
The information provided by the school unfortunately doesnt confirm  that there was a 
medical need to cancel  the trip. ERV has declined to consider the claim due to this lack of 
evidence and, from what Ive seen and heard, I agree that Mr P has currently failed to 
demonstrate that the cause of the claim is one that is covered by the policy.  
Ive thought very carefully about the circumstances of this complaint, and I do sympathise 
with the position Mr P has found himself in. Its clear  that he made the decision to cancel the 
holiday based on the best interests of his family.  But from the information Ive been provided 
with, ERV has applied  its policy  terms reasonably.  And so because of this I cant  uphold  
Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Ref: DRN18771103Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1877110