K821x#15complaint
Mr N says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan Uncle Buck provided to Mr N in April 2017.  The 
loan was for £100 and was to be repaid in three instalments with the highest being  £52.40.  
From what  I can see, Mr N repaid  his loan through a debt management plan.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ns complaint and thought  the loan shouldnt have been  given. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed. Uncle  Buck  said it had no evidence that Mr N had outstanding loans 
at the time he applied  for his one loan. It thought its affordability checks  had been 
proportionate. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case.
Ref: DRN12892542This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr N for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr N said he earned £1,300 a month.  He said his disposable income  was 
about £523 a month.  Uncle Buck said there  was no evidence in Mr Ns credit  file of any 
reason that Mr N was unable to repay  his loan. It said it had relied on Mr N providing 
accurate information.  Uncle Buck said it had no evidence that Mr N had three outstanding 
loans at the time he applied for his one loan. 
But I disagree. As our adjudicator explained,  Uncle Bucks  check for the loan showed it that 
Mr N was having problems managing  his money. The credit  search  that Uncle Buck  carried  
out and passed to us showed that Mr N had over three other outstanding short-term loans 
when he applied for the loan from Uncle Buck. Ive counted eight such loans still outstanding 
when Mr N applied for his loan from Uncle Buck. I think Uncle  Buck would have seen these 
in its credit check. So I think Uncle Buck should have realised that it was unlikely that Mr N 
would be able to sustainably repay  his loan or any subsequent loans. And so I dont think 
Uncle Buck  should  have  approved it. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  this loan and I think Uncle Buck  should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr N paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Ns credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I require 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to pay Mr N compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Ref: DRN12892543Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289254