K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans which he couldnt  afford to pay back.  
background 
Mr T took out 19 instalment loans with Sunny between November 2014 and mid 2018  and 
one running credit account.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. Mr T says he cant  now repay  the loans and there is a balance outstanding.
After the complaint came to this service, Sunny offered to refund interest and charges on 
loans 9 to 20, with 8% interest, and remove these loans from Mr Ts credit  file. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  that Mr Ts complaint about 
loans 7 and 8 should also be upheld.  He said it wasnt unfair  for Sunny to offer loans 1 to 6 
but at the point of loan 7 Mr Ts borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and Sunny 
shouldve seen that he was persistently relying  on these loans.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  Mr 
T was persistently relying on the credit.  It pointed  out that loan 7 was taken out and repaid 
within days which suggested  that it was affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN11974082the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr T could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. As Sunny has agreed to refund all 
interest and charges in relation to loans 9 to 20 and to remove these from Mr Ts credit file I 
havent considered these  further save to include it in the redress  and as part of Mr Ts overall  
borrowing pattern. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr T. It asked Mr T for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ts credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr T loans 1 to 6 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr T 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
five, I dont think that I need  to say more about them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would recommend for loans 9 
to 20, so I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loans 7 and 8.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ts lending  with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr T.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan seven. I say this because:
When Mr T took out loan seven, hed been borrowing almost continually  and wasnt 
making any inroads  into the amount that he owed. 
Ref: DRN11974083Although Mr T repaid loan 7 a few days after taking it out he asked to borrow  loan 8 the 
same day. I think this pattern of lending shouldve  alerted Sunny to the likelihood  that Mr 
T was having  problems  responsibly managing his money.  Although Sunny suggests this 
pattern shows the lending was affordable, I disagree and think  it is more  likely to 
suggest borrowing from elsewhere.
I think that Mr T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan seven 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mr T had been  borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr T in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint about loans 7 and 8 in addition to loans 9 to 20.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr T which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr T originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr T as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr T having made overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move 
to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr T. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Mr T.
E.The number of loans taken from loan seven  onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans 7 to 20 should be 
removed from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN11974084my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1197408