K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that he was inappropriately advised  by Phoenix Life Limited to start a new 
personal pension  plan rather than re-start contributions to an existing  personal  pension that 
he had with another provider.
background
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint. He set out his understanding of the 
circumstances as follows: 
Mr C had an existing personal pension which I will refer to as pension A. 
Contributions had ceased to it but Mr C could have  restarted them.
Mr C had paid about £835 into Pension  A over a two year period.
Mr C had sought advice on his retirement  provision.  He was advised to start a new 
personal pension  and pay into that scheme which  started  in early 1992.
Mr C had ticked that he had an existing personal pension on the confidential 
questionnaire completed  at the time.
In May 2002 £18,368 was transferred from the Phoenix pension to another  pension  
provider.
When Mr C tried to take some of the benefits from Pension A on reaching age 55 he 
discovered that it had no value.
The investigator thought that the adviser,  knowing that Mr C already had a personal  pension, 
ought to have explored whether that might be a cheaper, more  suitable option for Mr C to 
save for retirement. But given the passing of time,  it was clearly difficult to know exactly  what 
was discussed.  
The provider for Pension  A had confirmed that contributions could have been re-started to it. 
And the investigator  couldnt see that the adviser  had compared the charges between the 
two plans. He thought  that if the charges  were  demonstratively lower on the existing plan, 
there would be no reason  to advise starting  a new plan with a new provider. 
In the circumstances, the investigator thought that Phoenix should obtain a notional  value for 
Pension A, assuming that the contributions made  to the new scheme had instead  been 
made into pension  A. And then compare that with the transfer value from the Phoenix  
pension on its transfer in May 2002.
Phoenix Life said it agreed with the investigators thoughts  and proposed way forward. It 
contacted the provider  for Pension  A to obtain  the notional  value. However  it hasnt been 
able to obtain the appropriate value from the provider  of Pension A. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons hed set out.
Phoenix Life and Mr C have both agreed with the investigators findings. However the 
dispute hasnt  yet been resolved because Phoenix  hasnt been  able to obtain a notional 
Ref: DRN14478342value from the provider of Pension A to calculate whether Mr C has suffered a loss and thus 
appropriate compensation. And this has been  ongoing for several  months now. 
Given that Phoenix Life is reliant  on the provision of the notional value from the provider of 
pension A, its not entirely within its powers  to complete the calculation  as proposed. That 
would be the preferred  solution to put Mr C, as far as possible, back into the position he 
would have been in if he had re-started  contributions to Pension  A. 
An open  ended dispute isnt satisfactory  for any of the parties involved. Therefore I think if 
Phoenix Life isnt able to obtain the information  within an acceptable  period,  its reasonable 
for it to take a pragmatic approach. So if it cant obtain the notional  value  it should  calculate 
the likely  value of Pension A at May 2002  (assuming all contributions had been made to it) 
by extrapolating  the net growth rates from the figures the provider of Pension A has given for 
the non-protected rights part of the pension. I think this a fair and reasonable approach  in all 
the circumstances if its not able to obtain the actual notional figure.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I order Phoenix Life Limited to obtain  a notional value for Pension  A assuming that it had 
been re-started and all subsequent contributions  had been made into Pension A and at the 
same times. The value should be calculated as at May 2002 when the Phoenix Plan was 
transferred. 
If Phoenix Life isnt able to obtain  that notional value  within  21 days of being informed that 
Mr C has accepted this decision, it should  make its own calculations on the basis I have 
outlined above.  
If the notional  value (or alternative  value) is higher than the actual value  transferred  in May 
2002, compensation is due to Mr C. This compensation  should  be adjusted: 
Firstly, to take into account the potential growth  on it from May 2002 whilst it has 
been invested in Pension C. 
Mr C has told us that he took the benefits from Pension C by way of tax free cash  and an 
annuity sometime in 2017.  So Phoenix Life should also contact the Provider of Pension C to 
obtain its final value.  It can then calculate  the percentage change in the value  of the £18,368  
in May 2002  to the date Mr C took the benefits. That percentage change should be applied 
to the compensation calculated as at May 2002  to account for any lost growth from that date 
to the date Mr C took his benefits in 2017.  
Secondly, to take into account  the loss of use of that money from the date Mr C took 
his benefits in 2017. 
So Interest at the rate of 8% simple  per annum should then be added  to the amount of 
compensation calculated as at the date Mr C took his benefits  in 2017 to the date of this 
decision.
Given Mr C has already  taken his benefits  from Pension C and given the amounts involved, I 
think its reasonable to pay any compensation direct  to Mr C as a lump sum; less an 
Ref: DRN14478343appropriate adjustment for the tax he would otherwise have had to pay on it. If the money 
had been in the pension  plan it would have provided  a taxable income at retirement date.
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that 
would have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated  using  Mr C's current  
marginal rate of tax (given he has already taken his pension).  I think  Mr C is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer, so in those circumstances  the reduction should equal the current basic 
rate of tax. However, if Mr C is able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation (with  the other 25% being paid tax free).  If Mr C is a 
non-taxpayer, the compensation should be paid to him in full, subject to him providing 
appropriate evidence  of his tax position.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should  be added to the compensation calculated  
from the date of this decision  to the settlement date, but only if payment isnt made within  28 
days of Phoenix being  informed  by us of Mr Cs acceptance of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1447834