K820x#14complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit card. He was 
sold the policy on-line  by Egg, but Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible  for these 
sales. 
background
Mr L has already been paid some  money for the commission Barclays received from selling 
him the PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked  at this case  said the complaint about  the 
PPI being mis-sold in the first place shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint about the mis-sale. 
Weve seen quite  a few similar  sales to this and as a consequence,  we have a good 
understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know, for example, that 
consumers like Mr L would have had to either  agree to, or decline,  the PPI when they were  
making their way through  the on-line form before being allowed to finish their application. 
We no longer have access to Mr Ls actual  credit card application form, but we know he 
didnt initially  ask for PPI during that process. Barclays  says it records show the PPI was 
added to the credit card around 4 months  after the card sale,  in June 2002. It says Mr L 
specifically asked for the PPI via a separate on-line  PPI application process.
Clearly, these events were a very long time ago now. Mr L says he doesnt  remember any of 
this but that doesnt necessarily mean he didnt ask for the PPI. He says he never knew  
anything at all about the PPI, but I was sent a number of his monthly credit card statements.  
These show that he was being regularly charged for the PPI and it was described on the 
statements as credit  cover premium . I think hed have  noticed these charges and wanted to 
know what they were for, if he hadnt ever asked for the PPI.
So I think these things  show  Mr L would  have known he didnt  need  to have PPI because  he 
initially operated  his credit card without it. I also think the evidence also shows its more  likely 
the PPI was added later and Mr L would have been able to see this. On that basis  I think  its 
more likely he asked for the cover.
Being an internet sale, I think  its reasonable to say this wasnt  an advised sale and it was 
for Mr L to decide for himself whether or not he wanted PPI. Barclays duty was to provide  
clear enough  information  for him to make an informed choice.
I obviously cant say he was told everything  he ought to have been told. But I know  it was 
normal for Barclays to send out a PPI welcome  letter which explained the policy rules. And 
Ref: DRN17727712even if I accept Barclays could have done  more,  it doesnt make any difference  to what  I 
think.
This is because Mr L was eligible for the cover which, at 74p per £100  of the outstanding 
credit card balance, appears  to have been an affordable charge. I can see he would have 
had some sickness cover with his job, but the PPI covered unemployment, as well as other 
forms of disability or sickness and it could have reduced his credit  card balance by 10% a 
month for up to a year in the event of a successful claim. This would have been in addition to 
any other means he had. 
So I think the cover was of use and this is probably why he decided to buy it and continue to 
pay the premiums Ive mentioned above.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Barclays has to pay back  all the cost of the PPI to Mr L. Its 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because  when the policy was sold it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium). It should have  told Mr L about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about  the mis-sale. And I dont require Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC to pay any more compensation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid to Mr L the commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1772771