K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed  to do appropriate affordability checks  
when it accepted two credit  card applications.  
background
In April 2014 Mr B applied for a credit card (A) with Capital One. His application was 
accepted with a credit limit of £200. In April 2015 Mr B applied for a second credit card 
account (B). This application was accepted with a credit limit of £1,000. In March  2016 Mr B 
closed account  A. In April 2016 Mr B applied for a third card (C). This application was also 
accepted with a limit of £1,000. By June and July Mr B had reached the maximum spending 
limit on accounts B and C. In September Mr B entered a long term payment plan so in 
October Capital One registered a default on both accounts. 
In February 2018  Mr B complained to Capital One.  He said he didnt believe appropriate 
checks had been  done when he applied for the credit cards in 2015 and 2016. He said he 
started with a lower  limit which was increased  to £1,000 without the correct  checks.  He said 
his financial history was not good. 
Capital One said it had carried out appropriate checks and based  its decision on Mr Bs 
income, occupation and previous payment history. Mr B wasnt satisfied and brought  his 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator concluded that Capital  One hadnt done anything  wrong. She said it had 
checked Mr Bs credit  report and income  and that these checks  were reasonable under the 
circumstances. Mr B did not accept this and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B but having  done  so I wont be asking Capital One to do anything  
further. 
Ive looked at Mr Bs statements relating to all his accounts. 
opening account B in 2015
I can see that Mr B kept within his credit limit of £200 on account  A comfortably. He made 
payments on time which usually exceeded the minimum  payment, often by quite a lot. Mr B 
used this credit card up until he closed the account.  
In using this information along with Mr Bs income and occupation and a credit check, I 
consider that Capital  Ones checks  for the application for account B were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
opening account C in 2016
Mr B continued to make payments to account A throughout 2015 and into 2016, again 
exceeding the minimum amount required. In March Mr B closed the account. Mr B has said 
he asked for the limit on this card to be increased  and it wasnt.  Ive looked at the contact  
notes for this account and in March 2016  the notes  state that Mr B asked for the account  to 
Ref: DRN10416472be closed because he wasnt using it. While  I note that there are transactions on the account 
early in the year so the account was in use, Capital One went  ahead and closed the account. 
Im not disputing Mr B asked for an increase to the limit but I havent seen any evidence in 
the file. 
I can see Mr B used  account B and often made payments exceeding  the minimum required. 
In January 2016 he paid in £400 and in February  £150. Although Mr B exceeded his credit 
limit by £19.03  in February, in early  March Mr B made  payments  totalling £715. It wouldnt 
necessarily be a red flag to exceed the cards credit  limit a little if the account is soon 
brought back within its limit  which it was. These  payments  were  made  by 6 March. In April 
Mr B paid the minimum payment, £25. It was at this point Mr B applied  for account C. 
When he applied in 2016 Mr B stated an increased  income since the previous  year and I 
consider that Capital  One is entitled  to rely on this and his positive payment history  to inform 
its decision to accept  the application. Mr B was spending money  using his cards but he was 
also making appropriate payments very much  exceeding the minimum needed. 
Ive seen Mr Bs credit  file. I can see a number of short term loans, and while  there are two 
historic defaults that would have been  visible to Capital One I can see that Mr B generally  
kept up repayments and settled his accounts. So Im satisfied Capital One carried  out 
appropriate checks proportionate to the amount of credit Mr B applied  for. 
Mr B has said his financial situation  wasnt good  at the time and Capital One shouldnt  have  
allowed him to have the accounts. He said he closed an account  with a credit  limit of £200 
and was able to open one with a limit of £1,000, which is an increase of £750 (although I 
believe Mr B meant £800). There is no evidence to suggest Mr B told Capital One that he 
was in any financial difficulty in relation  to his accounts A or B. Having examined Mr Bs 
payment history it does  appear he was able to manage his account  B and with the exception 
of the April payment  which was the minimum payment, the payments were significantly 
greater than the minimum. 
Mr B also said that had Capital One not allowed him another credit card,  B, with a limit of 
£1,000, and hed just kept the one with the £200  limit, A, he would not have two defaults in 
excess of £1,000. From the contact notes it appears Mr B asked to close account A on 25 
March 2016. He then opened  account C on 17 April which is over three weeks  later. In 
addition I note two entries  on Mr Bs account B statements for transactions to a credit 
reference agency on 3 March and 3 April. So it does seem to me Mr B was considering his 
credit history  prior to his application  for account C. 
I note that following missed payments on both accounts Mr B discussed his financial 
situation with Capital One in August 2016 and set up a long term payment plan. Financial 
businesses have a duty to act when a customer indicates they are in financial difficulty.  
Although this doesnt prevent a default being registered Im pleased  to see that Capital One 
has not applied  interest or charges since September 2016. 
Ref: DRN10416473my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1041647