K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out in 2001 
and 2004. Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
Both loans  were taken  in joint names,  but the PPI policies only covered Mr D.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs D case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  I know this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs D, 
so Ill explain my reasons  why.
Mr and Mrs D took out two loans with Nationwide  one in 2001,  and another  in 2004.  The 
2001 sale was in a branch, and the 2004 sale was done over the phone. Nationwide sold a 
PPI policy  to Mr and Mrs D with each  loan.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were pressured  into taking out the PPI policies. They  say they 
felt they had to agree  to take PPI or they would  not get the loans they were applying for. I 
cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs D during the meeting, and theres  no call recording 
available for the later sale  although  this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale took 
place. However, pressure is subjective, and what feels like pressure to one person may not 
to another.  I would also expect a business  to try and sell its products  but this is different  to 
saying that they had to take out PPI. 
Nationwide has also provided  copies of the loan applications, and a call script that was in 
use when Mr and Mrs D took out the loan in 2004.  Both loan applications clearly show that 
the PPI was an optional product  and have been signed by Mr and Mrs D. If theyd been 
told differently, I think they wouldve questioned this at the time.  The script that was in use 
shows that the staff member wouldve been prompted to point out that the policy  was 
optional, and gain proper consent.  Of course, I cant be sure how closely the script was 
followed, but I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide did anything differently with 
Mr and Mrs D.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its most  likely  Nationwide  made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI policies, and that they chose to take them out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check if 
they were right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But as I think they chose  to take out the PPI policies - it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time the 
policies were taken  out, it doesnt look like Mr D was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so they would have been  useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
Ref: DRN15032522also looks like the PPI policies were affordable. So I dont  think  better information about the 
PPI policies would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D has said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold think  the PPI policies were  mis-
sold.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ds loan they took out in 2001 
ended in 2004. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply for this 
loan. So Nationwide doesnt need  to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs D paid for the 
PPI they had with their 2001 loan. However,  the loan Mr and Mrs D took out in 2004 was 
open for some time after 6 April 2008   so the rules  do apply for this loan.
Because of this, Nationwide  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI policy  sold to 
Mr and Mrs D in 2004 because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do for the PPI sold in 2004
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs D any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN15032523Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium - including  
any extra  Mr and Mrs D paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also pay 
Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest  on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs D.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  for the PPI policy sold in 
2004. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1503252