K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid)  lent money to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information received, QuickQuid provided 19 loans and 17 top-ups to Mr C 
between March 2012 and September 2017.
Mr C says that at the time of the loans he was struggling financially and that he was taking 
out new loans  to repay previous loans.
Our adjudicator said that there wasnt  enough evidence to say that QuickQuid acted unfairly  
by providing loans 1, 2, or loan 13. He didnt think that the top up to loan 2 or loans 3-12 and 
loans 14-19 shouldve been  provided. He noted  that the repayments due on a number of the 
loans were substantial  compared to Mr Cs income  and that repayment  plans and extensions  
were arranged. From loan 4 he thought Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. He thought that the break in the lending 
between loans 12 and 13 was long enough  to suggest that this was a new chain of 
borrowing. But Mr C needed an extended  period to repay loan 13 and so by loan 14 he 
thought Quick Quid should have  known that Mr C was still having  problems  and shouldnt  
have given any more  loans to Mr C.
QuickQuid says that it carried out proportionate  affordability checks and Mr C displayed a 
sound repayment history. Following the adjudicators view the business offered  to refund all 
interest and charges that Mr C paid on loans 4-12. Mr C didnt accept  with this offer and so 
as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally it has been  passed to me to decide.
Whilst the complaint  has been waiting for a decision QuickQuid has written  off the 
outstanding balance on the final loan as it said it had incorrectly  suspended collections whilst 
this complaint was ongoing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN17279962But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal  that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C asked for the top up to loan two in June 2012. Loan 2 was for twice the amount of loan 
one and Mr C applied  for this loan 3 days after repaying loan one. Mr C then asked to top up 
this loan by another £150 less than two weeks later. He then continued to borrow  without 
any significant gaps  in until he repaid loan 12 on 4 September 2014.
There was then a substantial gap until September 2015 before Mr C asked for loan 13 and 
so I agree that this should be treated as a separate lending chain.
Before the loans were  provided, information  about  Mr Cs income and expenses was 
gathered. Considering the lending chain including  loans  1 to 13, I agree that there isnt 
enough evidence  to say that loans one and two shouldnt have been provided. At this stage I 
think it was reasonable  to rely on what Mr C was saying about  his finances and to allow him 
the benefit of more  than one loan to get himself back  on track
But Mr C asked to top up loan 2 by £150  less than two weeks after taking out £400. Mr C 
had taken two months  to repay loan 1 for £200  and his request for further borrowing so soon 
should have led QuickQuid to do some further  checks. The repayments on loan 2 and the 
top up were a significant proportion of Mr Cs income of £1200 which might suggest he 
Ref: DRN17279963couldnt sustainably  afford the repayments.  Mr C said his outgoings were £750 which would 
mean that the repayment was more  than his disposable monthly income.
Mr C applied to borrow £600 for loan 3 on the day loan 2 and the top up was repaid which 
suggests Mr C couldnt afford to repay  what he had borrowed without borrowing again. 
Because of this I do not find that the top up to loan 2 or loan 3 should have been considered 
affordable and so shouldnt  have  been  provided  to Mr C. I note QuickQuids comments about 
Mr C being able to save income from previous months to meet  the repayment amount 
however I dont think this is reasonable. I find that QuickQuid shouldnt have lent money  
where a monthly  repayment amount was higher than Mr Cs monthly disposable income.
By loan four, I agree  with our adjudicator that the overall pattern of borrowing suggested  Mr 
C was dependent on short term borrowing. Mr C had been borrowing for a number of 
months and although the amounts were fluctuating new loans were being taken out shortly 
after previous loans were  provided. Given this I think that loan four and the remaining loans 
in this lending  chain shouldnt have been  provided.
Loan 13 was the start of a new lending  chain and I agree that based  on the information 
provided I cannot say that the initial loan was unfairly provided. But Mr C fell into difficulties 
repaying this loan and took a number of months  to repay it. Mr C then asked for loan 14 
soon afterwards. This suggests that Mr C continued  to be in financial difficulty.  The 
repayment for this loan was again  a significant proportion of Mr Cs disposable income and 
further checks would have shown that this loan was unaffordable for Mr C. This combined 
with his borrowing  history  should have raised concerns and I think that QuickQuid should 
have realised that this loan wasnt  sustainably  affordable.
Mr Cs position didnt  improve  and he continued  to borrow  from QuickQuid. Eventually  he 
was unable to repay  what  he had borrowed and had to enter into a repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance. I agree with the adjudicator  that for the later lending  chain (loan  14-19) 
these loans should not have been given to Mr C.
Since Mr C raised his complaint, QuickQuid has written off the balance  on his outstanding 
loan. It has confirmed this has happened  and there is no longer an outstanding balance  on 
his account. It seems Mr C was paying but these payments were not taken by the business 
when the complaint was made.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to the top up on loan 2 and loans 
3-12 and loans 14-19. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) should:
1.         refund  all interest and charges that Mr C paid on the tope up to loan 2, loans 3-12 
and loans 14-19;
2.         pay  interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
3.        remove any negative  information about  loans  2, 3 and 14 from Mr Cs credit file;
4.         the number of loans taken from loan 4 means any information recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 4 onwards (excluding loans 13 and 14) should 
be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
Ref: DRN17279964QuickQuid has written  off Mr Cs outstanding  balance, therefore  I find it reasonable that any 
refund provided  due to this decision can be offset  by the capital amount written off.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1727996