K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Miss L on behalf  of her grandmother,  the late Mrs H, and 
herself. In the hope that Miss L wont mind, I will refer to the late Mrs H as Mrs H throughout 
this decision.
Miss L says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her and Mrs H three 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies over a number of years.
background
Miss L and Mrs H arranged a mortgage with Halifax in 2002 and a policy  was a package 
called Total Mortgage Protection Plan  (TMPP) which offered accident, sickness, 
unemployment, critical illness and life cover. The policy was only in Miss Ls name  and 
provided cover for all elements of the TMPP. Miss L has only complained about the PPI 
(accident, sickness and unemployment) element.  
The PPI would have  paid a benefit of £415.92  a month for up to 24 months if Miss L made a 
successful claim. 
In 2007 Miss L and Mrs H arranged  further  borrowing with Halifax. At this time Miss Ls 
previous PPI policy was cancelled  and a new policy set up. This policy was part of a TMPP 
package and was again in Miss Ls sole name. This time Miss L only took out the cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
It would have paid a benefit  of £709.86  a month and the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Miss L had made a successful  claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
In 2009, Miss L and Mrs H again  arranged further  borrowing with Halifax. A new TMPP 
policy was sold at the same time  and was also in Miss Ls sole name. Like the policy sold 
in 2002, this covered Miss L for all elements of the TMPP and she has only complained 
about the PPI element of it. 
The policy would have paid a benefit  of £882.31  a month for up to 12 months for any 
successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss L and Mrs Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss L says the policies  were added to the mortgage and further borrowings without her and 
Mrs Hs knowledge. All three  policies  were sold during meetings between  Miss L, Mrs H and 
Halifax. 
Ref: DRN16333302Halifax hasnt been able to provide copies of the actual paperwork completed during the 
meetings between it, Miss L and Mrs H when they took out the policies. The three events 
took place a number of years ago, so it doesnt surprise  me that the original paperwork is no 
longer available. And Halifax  doesnt have to keep records indefinitely. So Ive given 
consideration to everything Miss L has told us, as well as taking into account  all we know 
about how Halifax sold policies such  as these at the time to decide what  I think  is most  likely 
to have happened.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Miss L and Mrs H, had accepted  the recommendation to have certain, or all, elements 
of the PPI policy. Halifax has provided a copy of these letters sent to Miss L covering the 
details of what had been selected for the sales in 2007 and 2009. If Miss L and Mrs H 
hadnt wanted it or their circumstances changed,  the letters state that the PPI could  be 
cancelled at any time. 
From what  we know about how Halifax sold policies in 2002,  2007 and 2009, I think it would 
have made  it clear at each occasion  that the policy was optional. And having considered 
what Miss L has told us carefully, nothing  shes said leads me to think  Halifax didnt follow  
its normal procedures here. 
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  I think its most likely  Halifax  made it clear that 
Miss L and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out each time  
although I can understand why Miss L cant remember this now.
Halifax recommended  the policies to Miss L and Mrs H. So it had to check they were right for 
them. 
Looking at Miss L circumstances (as the policies  were in her sole name) at the time of each 
sale it seems  like she had a need for the cover. Miss L wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. Miss L says she would have received good level of 
sick pay and redundancy benefits  from her employers. But each policy wouldve paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits.
 
From what  Miss L has told us, I cant see she had any other means  of making  her mortgage 
repayments. So it seems  Miss L had a need for the policy. Miss L and Mrs H were borrowing 
funds against  a large and long term financial commitment,  which  was secured on their home. 
I note Miss Ls comments that Mrs H wouldve been able provide support if Miss L was 
unable to work. I dont  doubt that Mrs H wouldve wanted to do this, but peoples 
circumstances can change and this help cannot be guaranteed. The consequences of not 
keeping up the mortgage repayments wouldve  been  serious.  So I think having  the security  
that Miss Ls share of mortgage  repayments  would be made if she was too unwell to work or 
became involuntarily  unemployed  would  have been  important to them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss L and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI on all three occasions - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above  - it looks  like the 
policies would have  been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policies were  affordable  for them.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put Miss L and Mrs H off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN16333303Overall, I dont  think Miss L and Mrs H have lost out by anything Halifax might have done 
wrong. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss L and Mrs H paid for it. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Miss L and Mrs H some  of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Miss L and    
Mrs Hs mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Miss L and Mrs H paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1633330