K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  about the end of contract charges Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) have  asked her to pay. Shes  also unhappy with the returns  process.
background 
Ms B took receipt of a new car in September 2014. She financed the arrangement  through  a 
four year hire purchase agreement with MBFS which matured on 17 September  2018. But 
she complains that at the end of the lease MBFS:
failed to collect the car until 26 November 2018 and charged her £359.10 for 
continued usage. 
charged her £475.16 to repair six areas  they said needed refurbishing to return  the 
car to the required condition, despite Ms B having  spent £750 to do this the week 
before
charged her £589.90 for mileage that had been  completed in excess of the 
contractual limit. Ms B says the mileage  is wrong and they failed  to take into account 
the contract extension
MBFS explained that the collection  agent  had attempting to call Ms B many  times but hadnt 
been able to get through to her to arrange collection of the car. They said theyd used the 
number they had on record for Ms B and they therefore thought  theyd done as much as 
could be expected of them. They reviewed the six areas of repair but said they all fell outside 
of the acceptable wear  and tear standards Ms B had been informed of. So they didnt think 
they needed to reduce the bill theyd provided. They went on to consider the mileage but 
they thought this had been calculated correctly  as well.
But Ms B disagreed  and she referred her complaint to this service.  Our investigator noted 
that the collection agent had tried to call Ms B on seven separate occasions  throughout 
September and October.  She explained that theyd used the number Ms B had given them  
but it was clear shed  not returned  their calls. She thought theyd made reasonable efforts  to 
get in contact and she didnt think they could be blamed for not collecting the car earlier.
She reviewed the inspection report that was completed before the car was handed back.  
She thought  that all of the items listed could be seen to be beyond  the fair wear  and tear 
guide and she therefore didnt think MBFS had done  anything  wrong when  levying the 
charges they had.
But when the investigator looked  at the mileage  charges she didnt think  MBFS had 
calculated them correctly.  She noted  that they hadnt taken account of the excess  rental  for 
two months in October and November 2018. She calculated that two months mileage 
allowance would be 1,166.67 miles and this would reduce the mileage  bill by £84. So she 
thought MBFS should  reduce the total bill by this amount  and they agreed.
But Ms B didnt. She said the date of the repair invoice and the mobile number on that 
invoice were wrong and the repairs had actually been completed in the week following 
inspection and prior to collection. She asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN12042422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms B but I agree with the investigators opinion.  Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the collection
I understand that Ms B is frustrated at the delay in collection. But Ive seen evidence that 
MBFSs third party  collection company called her on many occasions during September and 
October to arrange collection  of the vehicle. They used the only number they had for Ms B; 
the number shed used to set up the account.  So it would be unreasonable  to suggest  they 
hadnt taken action to collect the vehicle. I think the charge for excess rental  is therefore  fair.
repair and refurbishment
The terms of Ms Bs finance agreement said:
you will maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached Vehicle 
Returns Standard
Ive reviewed the Vehicle Returns Standard and can see that it sets out what  is considered  
fair wear and tear for various areas of bodywork and trim. These  standards  are in line with 
the industry guidelines  on fair wear and tear provided by the British Vehicle  Rental  and 
Leasing Authority (BVRLA).
Ive reviewed each  area of damage  and I think:
1.the damage to the right hand  door is clearly  visible in the image 
2.one of the keys is badly  damaged  and a £10 charge is reasonable
3.there is damage to the LHR wheel and spokes in excess of the BVRLA standard 
4.there is damage to the RHR wheel in excess of the BVRLA standard  
5.LHF tyre looks excessively worn  and Im persuaded would need replacing
6.RHF tyre looks excessively worn and Im persuaded would need  replacing
Ive also reviewed the charges that MBFS are making for refurbishment. These are in line 
with other  charges Ive seen made for similar  repairs within  the industry and Im satisfied 
theyre reasonable.
Ms B says she had the repairs completed. Shes provided a hand written invoice which 
suggests paintwork  repairs were  completed  to three additional panels  a week  before  the 
third party inspection of the car. It also says some repainting  was done and the alloy wheels 
Ref: DRN12042423were refurbished. This invoice doesnt mention that the tyres were replaced or the key was 
repaired.
I understand Ms B thinks the date may be wrong  on this invoice and the work may have 
been done between the inspection and collection.  But Im not persuaded thats most likely to 
have been the case. I say that because:
theres no mention  of a repair to the door panel  but the invoice does mention other 
panels by name that have been repaired.  I think if the door had been  repaired it 
would have been specifically listed. Although I accept the invoice does  refer to some  
repainting
Ms Bs account is inconsistent. The mobile number on the invoice is wrong and the 
date is wrong.
regardless of these  points its clear from the pictures taken by the inspector that there  
was damage
the pictures Ms B has provided dont show panels in sufficient detail for me to 
contradict the inspectors report 
So overall, I think the refurbishment  charges  applied  by MBFS have  been  justified by the 
evidence theyve provided and the charges seem fair and reasonable. I see no reason for 
them to be changed.
mileage
MBFS failed to extend the mileage allowance to take account of the two month extension to 
the lease period. Those two months  would increase the mileage allowance by 1166.67 miles 
and the resultant bill is £84 cheaper.
So it would be fair for MBFS  to reduce  the excess mileage charge by this amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  to reduce the excess mileage charge theyve asked 
Ms B to pay by £84.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1204242