K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has treated him unfairly when settling 
a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr D is unhappy with how UKI applied the terms and conditions of its policy when it decided 
to write off his car following an accident.  And he feels the terms are unfairly written in a way 
that gives UKI the scope to apply them in whichever way supports  them.  
Mr D feels UKIs engineers report recommended more work  to his vehicle than was needed  
or necessary after the accident. And he thinks this, together  with the way UKI has applied  its 
terms and conditions, meant his car was written off when  it should  have been repaired.
Mr D would like his car to be reclassified as not written off, and to be compensated  for the 
inconvenience of having to have  the car repaired himself.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint  and didnt  think  UKI had done anything  wrong.  
She said the policy explained  that UKI could repair the vehicle using parts that were  not 
made by the same  manufacturer  if they were  of similar standard.  And, if any parts werent 
available, the most  UKI would pay would be the cost shown in the manufacturers  last UK 
price list.
She agreed  second  hand parts could be used in certain circumstances, but felt - in the 
majority of cases  UKI would use new parts. And she explained the clause which  allowed 
UKI to use second hand parts was there to make sure it had the option to source these if a 
part was no longer made  so it had an option  to still repair a vehicle in this instance.
The investigator didnt  think UKIs  engineer had recommended more  work than was 
necessary. Or that it should have used  the price  of recycled parts  to determine the cost of 
the work  needed  to repair the car.  
Mr D disagreed and said he still felt UKIs application  of its terms meant his car was unfairly 
classified as a write  off. And, he feels if it had used  cheaper parts  to calculate the repair  
costs and decided  less repairs where  needed, this wouldnt have happened.  Because  of this, 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have decided to not uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint. I know this isnt the answer he was hoping for, but Ill explain why.
Our role is different to that of the regulator, so Im not able to recommend or tell UKI to make  
changes to its policies.  I consider  whether  the policy terms UKI has relied  on are fair. And  
if I think they are  I then need to consider if UKI has settled Mr Ds claim appropriately  in 
light of these and its obligation to treat Mr D fairly.  
The policy sets out what cover UKI provides  and how it will settle a claim. It explains that UKI 
has the option to decide  whether  to repair the damage, replace the damaged items or settle 
the claim directly. And it says the most it will pay is the market value of the car at the time it 
Ref: DRN13604082was damaged less any excess  applicable. It also says if it does this, it will take ownership of 
the car, unless otherwise agreed.
I dont think any of these  terms are unfair, and theyre in line with most motor  insurance 
policies available  and reflect what Id consider  to be good industry practice.  
Mr D has agreed  the market value UKI has based  its settlement offer on. And UKI agreed to 
let Mr D keep the car once written off. In doing this, it deducted what  it would have  got if it 
had sold the damaged car to a salvage dealer. The policy terms allow it, but it is the cost of 
the repair works exceeding  this value which resulted in the car being  written off which Mr D 
doesnt think is fair. 
Ive considered whether UKI has been fair in deciding both the amount of work required to fix 
Mr Ds car and how it calculated the cost of this work.
Mr D agreed a valuation  settlement  for his car of £4,000.00. This was higher  than UKI 
originally offered and from what Ive seen, is higher than what  the trade guides  wed rely to 
provide a market  value  indicate the car was worth.
UKI has provided its engineers report detailing the repairs  it felt were needed on the car. 
Inclusive of parts and labour, it estimated the repair costs to be £4,979.93. 
Mr D feels not all the items UKI said were needed to repair the vehicle were  necessary. He 
has explained he didnt  need to get all the work completed when he had it repaired. For 
instance he said he hadnt needed to replace  all of the tyres on his car. An invoice for the 
works he had completed when the car was repaired hasnt been provided to assess this.
The damage to Mr Ds car was a predominately  to the front left of the car  with the wheel 
arch and bonnet  being  visibly  impacted.  Ive  looked through  the list of parts  UKIs engineer 
said were needed.  And Ive looked at the images of the car and the damage to see whether 
the items  correspond with the damaged area.  
The list of parts UKI said were needed  all relate to the front left side of the car. And this 
doesnt list needing to replace all the tyres as Mr D has pointed out he didnt need to do. 
Having considered this list of works  and the damage  to Mr Ds car, Im not persuaded UKI 
has been unfair when it said Mr Ds car was an economical write off. The cost of the repair 
works outweigh the value  of the car by some  way  even after UKI agreed to increase its 
valuation of it. And with the schedule of works all being for the front left hand side of the car, 
Im satisfied these all relate to the damage caused by the accident.
So I think UKI has been fair when deciding what work would be needed  on Mr Ds car and 
why this meant the cost resulted in the car being an economical write off. 
As Ive explained previously, the policy explains  UKI can settle the claim how it sees fit. This 
means the cost it applies to the parts it thinks are needed and whether these are new or 
second hand are its choice. So I dont  think its acted  unfairly  when valuing the repairs.
Overall, having looked  at the terms I dont agree UKI has been unfair, or that it has done 
anything wrong  with how it has settled Mr Ds claim. 
Ref: DRN13604083Mr D said in response to our assessment that he was unhappy about his car being sent to a 
salvage agent when theyd agreed  he could have it back  and that bits were  taken off it. He 
didnt mention this when  he complained originally.  But UKI has acknowledged  this in its 
response. And I think the compensation its paid in relation to this is fair and in line with what  
Id expect for this error.
Mr D has also said from his research he believes he is entitled to ask UKI to appoint an 
independent engineer to review the work  it said was needed to repair  the car and confirm  if 
this was needed and the write of classification  is correct. I cant see he has asked UKI to do 
this already and he will need to contact  it directly to request this. But from what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied UKI has acted fairly with how it has settled this claim and the decision its reached 
on the repairs needed.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before28 April 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1360408