K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. HSBC  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint shouldnt be upheld. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
HSBC, and Mr and Mrs F, received  my provisional  decision. And no one had anything to add 
after theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC and Mr and Mrs F didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. 
So Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10845182extract from my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. They  paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. Having  done  so, Im currently minded not to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
HSBC shouldve made  it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr and Mrs Fs agreement to 
buy it. Mr and Mrs F say it wasnt made clear to them that the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs F bought the PPI policy in a meeting. Mr and Mrs F, and HSBC, have been able to 
provide documents  that show they were advised to start the PPI by HSBC.  But the PPI application  
form isnt available. Thats understandable  given  the time that has passed. So Ive looked at the 
information we do have alongside Mr and Mrs Fs comments. 
Having done this, I dont  have enough to say that its likely HSBC  told Mr and Mrs F that they needed 
to buy a PPI policy to start a mortgage.  Overall  I think its more  likely that HSBC made  Mr and Mrs F 
aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI and they chose to buy it. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it shouldve made  sure it was right for them. Mr and 
Mrs Fs mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial  commitment. If Mr and Mrs F couldnt work for 
a long period of time they may have found this difficult to pay. As the mortgage was secured on their 
home, Mr and Mrs F couldve potentially  lost their property  if they fell into financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve  paid some of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage payment if either Mr or Mrs F couldnt work 
due to illness, or they lost their jobs. The payment  wouldve been in addition to any employer, or 
unemployment benefits,  they might have received if this happened. It couldve provided  a payment for 
up to 12 months. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest  Mr and Mrs F couldnt afford to make the monthly payments  for the PPI 
at the time of sale. And they dont appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  So overall the PPI seems  to have been right for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale. Its possible the information HSBC gave 
Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But as I said earlier, based on what I 
know about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, it looks  like the policy couldve been useful to them.  So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped them buying  it. And I dont think  Mr and Mrs F have 
lost out due to anything that HSBC mightve  done wrong.  
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1084518