K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited kept increasing the credit limit on his account 
when he couldnt  afford it. He says that this was irresponsible lending.  
background
Mr A had a credit  card with Vanquis  over a number of years. Over time, Vanquis increased  
his credit limit on several occasions. In his complaint, Mr A says that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty at the time which was made  worse by Vanquis increasing  his credit limits. 
He believes that this was irresponsible of Vanquis, and he wants them to refund all the 
additional interest that he has paid in the six years  before he complained to Vanquis. 
Vanquis rejected  Mr As complaint. They  explained  that they checked Mr As credit file each 
time they increased  his limit and there  was nothing  there to indicate that Mr A had any 
affordability issues. Further,  Mr A had made the minimum  payments every  month,  in full and 
on time. He also made some additional  payments. Vanquis say that this all suggests  that he 
was not experiencing financial difficulty at the time.   
For that reason,  Vanquis did not think that they had done anything  wrong. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that Vanquis had 
made it clear  in the letters that were sent to Mr A that he could reject the increase if he 
wanted. Further, he thought that the checks that Vanquis had done were reasonable and 
proportionate and, given that Mr A seemed to be managing his account  well, there was no 
reason for them to think that he was in financial difficulty. 
Mr A didnt agree with this. He thought that they hadnt taken account of the affordability  of 
the increases,  especially as he was always close to his credit limit. He also thought that as 
he was only making  the minimum payments then Vanquis should have done more  
affordability checks.   
For that reason,  the complaint has come to me to decide. 
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Vanquiss decision to increase the credit  limit was 
reasonable, or whether  they should  have done  further checks  to ensure that Mr A could 
afford this. I believe that Vanquis have acted fairly here and Ill explain why.  
Before increasing  the credit limit, Vanquis have said that they ran credit  checks each time. 
This showed that there was no conclusive evidence  of a poor history such  as previous 
defaults on borrowing  or any outstanding County Court Judgements.  Ive also looked  at 
Mr As credit  report and I cant see any information  on there to suggest he was experiencing 
any financial  problems during this period. And theres no evidence that Mr A ever raised any 
concerns with Vanquis about his financial position.  
Ref: DRN14241332Ive seen that Vanquis also sent Mr A a letter each time which gave him the opportunity  to 
speak to them if he didnt  want  the increase, but Mr A never did so.   
  
Looking at this, and that he was making  the minimum payments when he was supposed to 
(and even  sometimes paying  off more),  I dont think that Vanquis had any reason to think 
that Mr A was suffering from any financial difficulty.  He was running the account in 
accordance with the Terms and Conditions and, while he may have been close  to the limit 
sometimes, theres no indication he couldnt afford his contractual  payments.  
Taking all this into account, theres  not enough evidence  here for me to say that Vanquis 
have done anything wrong.  I know  that Mr A will be disappointed by this, but I wont be 
telling Vanquis  to repay any of the interest.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1424133