K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that in 1992 she was badly advised by The Prudential  Assurance 
Company Limited  (referred  to from now on as Prudential) to start an in-house  Additional  
Voluntary (AVC) money purchase arrangement  rather  than to buy added years.
background
When Mrs H joined her employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) she would have 
been given a members  booklet that set out that an individual  could accrue  extra pension 
benefits by paying in-house Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC). These  in-house  AVCs 
could be used to either  accrue benefits  on a money purchase basis  or could be used to buy 
additional service  in the OPS.
In June 1992 when Mrs H met the Prudential representative a fact find was completed that 
recorded that Mrs H was aware  that she could buy added years in the OPS.  Mrs H however 
decided to pay her AVCs into the in-house  money purchase AVC arrangement.
In 1992 the representative  recorded  that Mrs H was already paying  into a Free Standing  
AVC (FSAVC)  arrangement with another provider.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of advice  the regulators code of conduct  stated that a representative  should:
Have regard to the investors financial  position  generally and to any rights that they 
may have under  an OPS.
Life assurance company  representatives therefore had to;
1.Point out that in-house AVCs were  available
2.Explain that in house AVCs were  likely  to provide better  value for money  than an 
FSAVC arrangement.
3.Recommend investigation of the in-house AVC arrangement.
It is true that whilst the representative from the Prudential could not advise on the added 
years option  he had to make sure that Mrs H was aware of the option to buy added years.
It is important  to realise that the costs of any added years were  expected  to be met by the 
contributions from the member. The arrangement  was not subsidised by the scheme. As a 
result the scheme  actuary would have used  a conservative set of assumptions  when working  
out the cost of the added  years arrangement.  The use of the conservative  set of 
assumptions would make the added years option appear expensive.
At the time of advice  it was expected  that on a realistic set of future assumptions the benefits 
from the money purchase arrangement would  exceed those from the added years  approach.  
This was not however guaranteed.
Ref: DRN18368532Of course it is known now with the benefit  of hindsight that the actual experience  since  1992 
has been less favourable  than was expected at the time and this has meant  that the benefits 
from the added years approach would have been greater.
It is also important to note that if Mrs H had selected the added years  approach  that the 
contributions to the arrangement would  have been  expected to increase in line with 
increases in her salary.  
Whilst I note that Mrs H had to retire early  form her job due to ill health  and took benefits 
early in 1999 this could  not have been foreseen at the time that the money purchase 
contract was established in 1992.
I finally note that the contributions to the money  purchase  arrangement were invested  in the 
Prudential with-profits fund and not in the deposit fund that was also available.  In my opinion 
this indicates that Mrs H was willing to take some risks with her AVC investments. There  is 
no evidence that Mrs H was unwilling to take any investment  risk and on that basis  the 
money purchase approach would have been  expected to produce greater benefits on 
retirement. However as stated above this outcome was not guaranteed.
Whilst it is disappointing that the benefits from the money  purchase  AVC fund are lower  than 
the benefits that the added years  would have provided this could  not have been foreseen at 
the time of advice  in 1992. The advice in 1992 would have been reasonable, based on the 
expectation the money purchase arrangement would leave her with greater  benefits  than the 
added years approach.  The business also appears to have made her aware of her options. 
Overall, I consider Prudential didnt  do anything wrong and I dont uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  and I 
make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1836853