K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Guarantee Protection Insurance  Limited  (GPI) wont accept  his claim for 
the repair/replacement of part of his solar  power  system equipment.
background
Mr H bought a solar power  system  in October 2011 which was installed by a business which 
Ill refer to as G. The system came  with: 
a 10 year written guarantee by G
a 10 year insurance policy, insured by GPI which came into effect if G ceased to 
trade
a 5 year manufacturers warranty for the inverter (which  was part of the system).
In February 2018  the inverter of Mr Hs solar power  system failed. The error code showed  
the inverter had a relay  error and it was failing  to read the voltage correctly.  G had ceased to 
trade so Mr H made a claim  under  his insurance  policy to GPI.
GPI declined  the claim. It said the relay failure resulted from a problem with the internal 
circuitry in the inverter  and is a well-known fault in Mr Hs type of inverter.  GPI said the claim 
wasnt due to Gs defective workmanship so didnt meet the terms of the benefit under the 
policy which  said:
The insurer  agrees to indemnify the policy holder in respect of the cost of making  good  
defective workmanship in the insured works at (Mr Hs address),  where the installer (G) has 
ceased trading  as defined  below and is unable to honour the terms of their own written 
guarantee issued  to the policy holder.
GPI also said it could decline the claim as exception 8 of the policy excluded cover for any 
defect to the insured works  where the fault is covered by a manufacturers warranty or 
guarantee. The manufacturers warranty  for the inverter  had expired.
Mr H complained to us. He believed the benefit wording read that GPIs policy would cover 
defective workmanship and, as a separate matter,  Gs guarantee. He said under Gs 
guarantee all materials  and labour supplied by G were guaranteed for 10 years,  which 
included the inverter.
Mr H wants GPI to pay for the installation of a replacement  inverter and compensation for his 
higher electricity bill and the lost feed in tariff payments (a payment one can receive  for 
generating electricity).
Our investigator thought GPI had fairly  declined  the claim as the fault with the inverter wasnt  
defective workmanship.
Mr H disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He found a definition  of defective  
workmanship on an insurance  brokers website which said provides cover for liability  in 
respect of damage to or the cost incurred in repairing, removing, replacing, reapplying, 
rectifying or reinstating products supplied and the works. He thought  that meant defective 
workmanship covers products supplied and work. 
Mr H also said there  was a contradiction in the policy  as he queried why would there  be 
exclusion for insured work covered by a manufacturers guarantee if the policy  didnt cover  
Ref: DRN17119612third party products. He also thought if the policy just covered defective work  it didnt make 
sense as a malfunction  due to poor workmanship would mean  the system wouldn't work 
immediately, when  an installer should  still be in business.
GPI said the Oxford Dictionary  definition of 'workmanship' was the degree of skill with which  
a product is made or a job done.  It said G didnt make the product but installed it. The 
problem with the inverter hadnt occurred  due to the installation. It also referred  to 
exception 8 in the policy and added  that exception 9 excluded  electrical  and mechanical 
breakdown of the insured  work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
GPIs policy is clear that it covers  only defective workmanship by G. I dont think Mr H 
can reasonably  read the policy benefit  wording  to mean that GPI will cover Gs defective  
workmanship and, as a separate issue, cover all Gs written guarantee terms (which  would 
include material supplied by G).
Defective workmanship isnt defined  in the policy so its reasonable for the phrase to be 
given its common understanding; which is work that is faulty. Defective workmanship doesnt 
mean a faulty  object.  But a product could be faulty due to poor workmanship if it was poorly 
made or poorly installed.  
I think Mr H has misunderstood the defective  workmanship definition  he found  on the 
internet. I read that definition to mean the work  involved making good faulty products and 
work, not the product  itself. 
The evidence is the inverter failed due to a manufacturing  fault.  G didnt make the product so 
it isnt responsible for the fault.  G did install the product  but theres no evidence  that the 
inverter failed due to Gs poor installation.
I see Mr Hs point that exception 8 could suggest  that that insured works not covered by 
guarantee are covered by the policy. But I think the wording of the benefit of the policy 
makes it clear that only defective workmanship is covered. 
GPI has now raised that it could also rely on exception 9 of the policy  to decline the claim. 
As the fault with the inverter  appears  to be an electrical and mechanical  breakdown  it can 
rely on that exclusion.  But fundamentally the policy only covers defective  workmanship by G. 
As Ive said,  theres no evidence the inverter's fault is due to Gs poor installation.
Mr H also made the point that he didnt think the policy  could just cover faulty work as if a 
system failed due to poor installation it would fail immediately.  Ive no evidence to show that 
would always be the case. I think its probable that there are times when a system would fail 
due to poor installation after it had been working for sometime.
Im satisfied that GPI fairly and reasonably  declined  the claim.
Ref: DRN17119613my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1711961