K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt tell him about lower  interest  rates available  on 
his mortgage when he was going  through financial and personal difficulties. He says if he 
was offered a lower  interest rate, it wouldve helped him manage his finances better. 
background
Mr B has an interest only mortgage  with Santander.  The mortgage was taken out in 2003, 
initially on a tracker interest rate for two years. It moved to a variable  interest rate of 5.20% 
in 2005 before moving to the standard variable interest rate (SVR) in 2011. The mortgage 
remained on this rate until 2018  when  it was moved onto another tracker rate. 
In 2012, after Santander paid service  charges  Mr B hadnt paid on his property, Santander 
added the amount it paid as arrears to Mr Bs mortgage account. Mr B says during that time 
and the years following, he struggled  financially  and found it difficult keeping  on top of his 
monthly outgoings. And he thinks Santanders decision to add the service charges as 
arrears made his situation worse  as it made  it more difficult for him to get back  on top of 
his finances.
Santanders said it wrote  to Mr B in 2016  to let him know it had capitalised the service 
charges so they were no longer being  treated as arrears on his mortgage. This was following 
a review by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) in 2014.  Its told me it backdated this as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mr Bs said he struggled financially and had changes in his personal circumstances that 
made things  very difficult for him. Sadly,  his wife fell ill in 2012 and then passed away  in 
2015. And although he tried to ask Santander for help during these very difficult times, he 
says he didnt get any. Mr Bs explained instead, Santander made things  more  difficult  for 
him by starting repossession proceedings when Mrs B was ill in 2012.  And he thinks  this was 
unfair in particular because some  of the arrears  on his mortgage were  made  up of the 
service charges which Santander  later agreed  to capitalise.
In 2018, Mr B applied  to move his mortgage to a tracker rate of 1.29% (0.79% above the 
Bank of England  base rate). So he says his repayments changed from around £500 per 
month to £44 per month. And as a result, hes been  able to start reducing the amount 
outstanding on his mortgage.  He thinks Santander shouldve given him the option to move to 
a different mortgage  rate much earlier  as this wouldve eased  the financial burden  on him. 
Santanders said its not obliged to let customers know of better  interest rates and its 
customers are responsible for asking about lower  interest rates  available.  Its also said Mr B 
wasnt eligible for the lower rates of interest  at all times  as it was initially  only available  to 
customers who had been arrears free for 12 months.  Its said Mr B was in arrears on his 
mortgage until May 2016 and then again  in September 2017. So its said he couldve only 
applied for a better rate either after May 2017 or  following a change in policy   
January 2018.  And as Mr B was in touch with Santander regularly about his mortgage, it 
thinks he was in a position to enquire about  other rates. 
Ref: DRN17579112Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr B contacted  our service. Our investigator  upheld his 
complaint as she thought Santander  shouldve done more to support Mr B when he was 
experiencing financial hardship  and to make him aware of the assistance it could give him  
including lowering his interest rate. To put things  right, she initially thought Santander should 
put Mr B in the position he wouldve been in if itd offered him a better rate of interest  in 
January 2018.  But in her follow up assessment, she thought Santander shouldve offered 
him a better interest rate in May 2017.  
Neither Mr B nor Santander agreed with the investigators opinion.  Mr B said if Santander 
had capitalised the service charges in 2012 instead  of adding it as arrears, he wouldve been  
in a position to qualify  for the lower interest rate either  in May 2014 or by 2015. Santander 
said it put Mr B in touch  with a specialist team to help him with his finances in 2014.  And it 
said Mr B was in touch with Santander regularly about his mortgage around May 2017.  So, it 
thinks he was in a position to enquire about  other rates of interest. As this didnt change the 
investigators opinion,  the complaints been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019. I explained I didnt think  
this complaint should be upheld in summary because:
I was unable to consider  Mr Bs complaint about  Santander treating his unpaid service 
charges as arrears  and starting  possession proceedings in 2012. This was because I 
thought hed already complained to our service about  that and received a final decision.
Customers might be able to benefit from preferential interest rates if they meet the 
criteria. But usually,  if a customer is in financial hardship, they wouldnt be eligible for 
these rates.
From  what Id seen, before it changed  its policy in 2017,  Santander  customers  would 
need to be free from arrears for at least 12 months  before they could qualify for a 
preferential interest  rate product.  So I didnt  think lower  interest rates  were  an option for 
Mr B during times  he was in arrears  under  Santanders policy.
Santander had given us an example of a document it says it sent to Mr B with his yearly 
statements. This document  let customers know about the different products available 
and suggested  if they were  on an SVR,  they speak to an advisor  about  new deals. 
I thought these products were available to all eligible customers  to apply for. So whilst  I 
accepted changing  to a lower rate might have helped Mr B, I thought it was his 
responsibility to think  about  his own circumstances and decide whether the product he 
had was still right for him. 
I could see Mr B was in contact with Santander about his mortgage at the time he was 
eligible for a better rate. But he had told Santander he was struggling to meet  other 
commitments at the time. So I didnt think it wouldve been appropriate for Santander to 
try to sell Mr B another interest  rate product which  may have  had a product fee (that he 
couldnt afford) and wouldve had an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ended early.
Ref: DRN17579113Santander told us there was a product available for vulnerable  customers, which entitles 
them to a rate of interest at 1% below the SVR fixed for three years. It was subject to an 
ERC. I thought Mr B couldve come within the identified  remit of a vulnerable customer. 
But I thought Santander had helped  him clear his arrears through  setting up an 
arrangement. So I didnt think it was appropriate  or necessary for Santander to consider 
giving him this vulnerable customer rate.
I didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably or unsympathetically in this case. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Mr B 
sent us a very detailed letter raising  several points  including  how his and his familys lives 
have been affected by Mrs B passing away. I appreciate it mustve taken him a lot of time 
and it mustve been extremely difficult for him to write this. I can also see hes gone through 
a great  deal over the years. I am very grateful for him for sharing this information with me 
and Ive carefully reconsidered his complaint taking into account everything that hes said.
In summary,  the crux of his comments are:
 
The investigator who looked into this case before me upheld  it twice. And he thought my 
decision was illogical.
If hed known he couldve  benefitted from a preferential interest rate by applying  for a 
new interest rate product, he wouldve contacted Santander immediately. He says this 
wouldve helped him in 2017  when  he was charged for works  carried  out by his landlord. 
And he thinks Santander withheld information from him which wouldve allowed him to 
access a lower  rate.
Santander recently upheld his complaint that it didnt send him the document  Id referred  
to in my provisional decision alongside  his statement in January  2019 explaining about 
other mortgage products available. And he doesnt recall this ever being sent to him. 
Even if it was, he wouldve needed  to get mortgage advice which  could cost him money.  
In addition, the guide he received  in 2017, Your guide to Interest Only Mortgages  
doesnt say anything about  being  able to benefit from preferential interest rates.
He only found  out he could move  to a better interest rate when he contacted  Santander 
about changing his mortgage  to a repayment  mortgage and it said this would be 
unaffordable. So it offered to put him on a tracker  rate instead  which  provided a much 
lower interest rate. This shows Santander offered a lower  rate. 
He doesnt  know who the collections assist team  are and he thinks the collections 
recoveries team had a duty to tell him about  better  interest rates. He wasnt told about 
the vulnerable  customer rate. And he thinks this team is just there to recover mortgage 
payments and not to act sympathetically  to customers.
Santander has previously been  fined for not dealing  with the accounts of deceased 
customers fairly  it didnt pass on funds from these customers  accounts  correctly.
Ref: DRN17579114Mr Bs explained that he doesnt think Santander  has acted sympathetically or appropriately 
 and hes been treated very differently by other  businesses. Hes now asked  that Santander 
puts him in the position he wouldve been in if hed been put on a better rate of interest in 
May 2017 as our investigator suggested in her assessment.
Santander initially said it had no further comments to make.  But its since said in summary:
It made a decision to settle Mr Bs recent complaint about not receiving the document  
about different  mortgage rate products in January  2019 based purely on what Mr B had 
said and it hadnt actually looked into things.
Its been sending  Mr B a document alongside his mortgage  statements for a number of 
years explaining  his statements and that he can apply to change  his mortgage  product. 
And this document is referred to on Mr Bs statements. 
If Mr B hadnt received these documents, it thinks he wouldve  raised  this much sooner. 
It thinks this because  Mr Bs made  similar  complaints in the past  including  a complaint 
about not receiving  his mortgage  statement in 2009. 
Santander wouldnt usually  and hasnt promised to  contact  Mr B to let him know  
when new products are available.  And it highlighted a copy of a letter it sent in 
February 2011 explaining his interest rate would be coming to an end and to get in touch 
if he wanted a new deal.
Santander incorrectly initially told Mr B it hadnt  passed his account to a specialist team 
when he first complained. This was because it didnt investigate what had happened  as 
thoroughly as it should have. 
Santander has sent me further documents to support what  its said, including a template 
statement, the enclosures which it says have been included with the statements since 2010 
and internal notes.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from both sides  very carefully  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I still dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why - but I wont be able to answer every 
point raised. Instead  Ive given my thoughts where  I think  its relevant and necessary.
I can see why Mr B is disappointed by my provisional decision  particularly as the 
investigator who looked at his complaint upheld it on two occasions, and now I havent. But 
because neither side agreed with what the investigator found  including Mr B, it was passed  
to me to look at afresh and impartially. Sometimes  when  ombudsmen look at cases again,  
they might  reach the same outcome as the investigator but sometimes they dont. I can 
assure Mr B though,  Ive looked into everything  very carefully  and Ive listened to everything  
hes told me. 
Ref: DRN17579115I appreciate Mr B still thinks Santander  shouldve done more  to tell him he couldve 
benefitted from a different  interest rate product. But as I explained in my provisional  decision, 
these preferential rates  were available to anyone  on an SVR to apply for who met the 
criteria set out by Santander  at the time. So I dont think  it was Santanders responsibility to 
advise him to apply  for it. What I need to be satisfied of, is that Santander made  Mr B aware 
of the different interest  rate products available to him.
Following my provisional decision, Mr B complained to Santander that he hadnt received a 
document explaining  the other products  available  to him in January 2019. And I can see it 
upheld his complaint. So I can see why Mr B might think  this proves Santander  didnt send 
the document in the first place. I cant comment on that complaint as its a separate  
complaint from this one. 
In any event, Santander has said it sent Mr B the relevant document explaining what  other  
products are available  every year since 2010.  And its given me sample copies of these 
documents. I can see they suggest  customers get in touch about changing their mortgage  if 
theyre on an SVR and explain what other types of interest rate products there  are available. 
I appreciate Mr Bs said he doesnt  recall ever receiving these documents. But I can see 
from the sample mortgage  statement  Santanders  said it sent to Mr B, that these referred  to 
this enclosure being  included.  So I think its more  likely Mr B wouldve been aware the 
document shouldve been  included. And from everything Ive seen, including  details of 
Mr Bs past complaints,  I think if he hadnt received something he was meant to, he wouldve 
let Santander  know. So Im satisfied its more likely Santander did make Mr B aware of the 
different interest  rate products available to him. 
Ive also looked  at the letter Santander  says it sent to Mr B in 2011 when his variable interest  
rate was nearing  an end. And this set out what his repayments at the time were and what 
theyd be going  forward. It also says to get in touch by phone if he was interested  in taking 
another deal.  So I think  overall, Santander did enough in this case  to make Mr B aware there  
were other interest rate products he could apply  for. 
Mr Bs said in 2017, he received a guide entitled  Your guide to Interest Only Mortgages as 
his interest only mortgage was due to end in the coming years. Hes said this doesnt say 
anything about  being able to benefit  from preferential interest rates.  Whilst I appreciate Mr B 
mightve wanted to know there were alternative interest rate products available at that time, I 
dont think this guide makes a difference in this case. I say this because  as above, I think its 
more likely Mr B had been given information  about other interest  rate products available to 
him at other times. And I dont think Santander  needed to remind  him in every 
correspondence sent to him.
Mr Bs said Santander suggested he change his interest rate product  to a tracker  rate in 
2018. This was when  he contacted it to discuss applying for a repayment mortgage. And he 
thinks Santander shouldve done this earlier. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think  
Santander was responsible for doing so. Mr B had contacted Santander for advice about his 
mortgage in 2018 (as the interest only mortgage  was coming  to an end). As part of this 
mortgage advice  Santander explored other  interest  rate options.  But I dont think  this means  
Santander had an ongoing duty to tell Mr B as soon as an interest rate product had become 
available to him. Id expect a new product to be suggested as part of the mortgage advice 
process but this is different to Santander identifying a product is available and proactively 
telling Mr B about this as part of the day to day running of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN17579116Mr Bs said he wasnt put in touch with a collections assist  team  as Id referred to in my 
previous decision.  Im satisfied from looking at the internal notes that Mr B was put in touch 
with a specialist  team designed to help him keep making his mortgage  repayments. And 
whilst he may have  known it by a different name as it was a number of years  ago, I think  he 
was given the support wed expect when he was in difficulties.
Mr B thinks  the specialist team had a duty to tell him about  other  interest rates including the 
vulnerable customer  rate. But I dont agree. As Ive explained,  the vulnerable customer rate 
is a rate available  to customers who meet  the criteria set out by Santander.  Whilst Mr B met 
this criteria, it encourages Santander  to explore all options before suggesting the vulnerable 
customer rate as its subject to an ERC.  From  what Ive seen, I think Santander did this and 
it enabled Mr B to pay off the arrears which had built up on his mortgage. So I dont think it 
needed to do any more in this case. 
Overall, whilst I understand Mr B has been through a very difficult  time, I dont think  
Santander has treated  him unfairly  in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1757911