K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. The 
policies protected  two credit cards (card 1 and card 2). Both cards  started  on 1 May 1994.  
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  him the PPI policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have all of the information  from the time of the sale in 
this case. That isnt surprising given the sale took place so long ago. That said,  Ive still 
reached a conclusion taking into account  the available evidence, knowledge and experience 
of these types of sales and whats  fair to both parties.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Theres only very limited information available about  the cards  and the PPI policies  taken in 
1994. Due to how long its been since the policies were sold this isnt surprising.  Businesses  
arent obliged  to keep records indefinitely and given sale happened around 25 years ago I 
wouldnt expect Lloyds  or Mr M to have  copies of all the original paperwork available. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr M to remember exactly  what,  if anything, he was told 
when he took out the PPI as the sale happened so long ago.
Lloyds has assumed that PPI was most likely  sold when Mr M applied  for the credit  cards.  
As the credit card accounts started  on 1 May 1994, Lloyds has assumed that this is the date 
the policies were sold. I dont think this is an unreasonable assumption to make and in my 
opinion is what more  likely happened.
Lloyds has provided  a sample  copy of a credit card application form from around  the time 
Mr Ms credit cards started. From this I can see that a consumer would have had to complete 
one application  form for both credit cards. On the application  form a consumer also had to 
actively tick to select  PPI. So overall I think Lloyds made it clear through  this application form 
(which I think  is the most likely method of sale in this case) that Mr M didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
I note our adjudicator  did consider the possibility that the PPI may not have been sold at the 
point of sale and could have been  taken out at some point after the start date of the cards. 
Our adjudicator was correct to consider this. Having  looked  at this possibility I agree with our 
adjudicators opinion that there isnt sufficient  information available for me to safely conclude 
that the policies were  not presented as optional. 
I would have to conclude that it was more likely that the PPI was not presented as optional. 
And I have  to bear in mind that it is just as likely that PPI was presented as optional.  
Ref: DRN18550362I cant say for sure that Mr M was told he had the option of refusing PPI, or that he agreed 
for it to be added.  Equally,  theres  nothing to show  the PPI wasnt  presented to him as 
optional or that he didnt  choose to go ahead with it.
Also, I have not seen anything to suggest that PPI was added automatically or that 
consumers were required to take PPI in order to be approved for any borrowing. 
So, based  on the limited information  I have, and in the absence of any evidence to make me 
think otherwise, I cant fairly  say Mr M wasnt given a choice about PPI. 
But as I say, I do consider  that the PPI was most likely added  at the time Mr M applied  for 
the cards. Given the sample  applications form that is representative of what Mr M most likely 
had to complete,  I think he would  have been  aware he had a choice as to whether  he 
wanted PPI or not.  
Lloyds says that it likely recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr M says he received good  benefits from his employer if he was unable to work and could 
have met his card repayments. But the PPI would have paid out at the same  time as Mr M 
was receiving any sick pay. It would have covered the card repayments  for up to 12 months 
per claim if he was off work because of an accident  or sickness  or if he lost his job. It also 
included life cover. 
Mr M says his family could  have  helped him meet his repayments. I dont doubt that they 
would have wanted to help, but their own circumstances could have changed  and they might 
not have been able to help when needed.  I also note Mr M didnt  hold any other insurance 
policies or have any other savings he could have used to meet  his repayments. Having PPI 
meant Mr M had the peace of mind  that if anything unfortunate was to happen,  his credit 
cards repayments were covered.
Ive also considered, if the PPI had been  possibly sold at a later date than 1994, that Mr M 
became self-employed in 1996. Having looked  at the terms required for a self-employed  
person to claim I can see they are no different to what is required for an employed person to 
claim. So I cant say that the policy potentially wasnt right for Mr M because  of his 
occupation.
 
So, looking  at Mr Ms circumstances in 1994 (and also 1996), I dont think the PPI was 
unsuitable.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt give Mr M clear information about all aspects  of the PPI such 
as the cost. But as I have  said, the PPI covered Mr Ms credit  cards and his repayments,  and 
I think its likely that Mr M chose to take out the policy and I can see why he might have 
thought it could be useful. Taking  all his circumstances into account, even if there  were  
failings in the way Lloyds  sold the policy, I dont think  better information would have put Mr M 
off having it. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies  to Mr M.
Ref: DRN18550363But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI on Mr Ms credit card (card  1) 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Lloyds hasnt offered  to pay any commission  back to Mr M in relation  to the PPI policy 
attached to card 2 and having looked into this, I agree  I dont think Lloyds need to pay 
back any commission. Ill explain why.
Following the Supreme  Court judgment the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued new 
rules and guidance around what  a lender is required  to do in some circumstances. It set out 
what a lender should do where the agreement for the credit was taken out on or after 
6 April 2007 - or if the agreement was taken  out before then, if it was still running on or after 
6 April 2008.
Given the dates  of Mr Ms credit agreement  with Lloyds, the Supreme Court judgment and 
the FCAs guidance around this doesnt  apply to Mr Ms situation as his credit agreement  (for 
card 2) with Lloyds ended before  6 April 2008.
I note that for Mr Ms credit card (card  1) Lloyds has said that the balance was charged off 
with an outstanding balance in June  2000. Because of this, Lloyds treated the account as if it 
hadnt closed.  This subsequently meant that this credit card (card 1) was caught by the 
relevant dates mentioned above, and which is why Lloyds  subsequently offered commission 
compensation to Mr M for this account.  All things  considered, this seems fair. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M and his representatives have said.  But, for the reasons 
Ive explained  above, these points  dont change my decision.
my final decision
I am of the opinion  that the PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on Mr Ms credit card (card  1). I understand it 
has already done  this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18550364
Ref: DRN1855036