K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Homeserve Membership  Limited mis-sold them a household 
accident insurance policy.
background
Mr D and Mrs D took out a household accident  policy over the phone with Homeserve in 
2004. They  renewed the policy every  year up to and including 2019.
After their 2019 renewal  had gone through, they got a letter from Homeserve saying some 
important information  about the new policy hadnt  been included in their renewal documents 
for that year. The information  Homeserve  hadnt  included in the letter was as follows:
"Dont  forget  to check this cover  still meets  your needs. You have  been  with us a number of 
years. You may be able to get the insurance cover  you want  at a better price if you shop  
around".
Mr D and Mrs D complained to Homeserve saying the cover didnt meet  their needs and they 
wanted all their premiums from 2004  refunded. Homeserve cancelled their 2019 policy  and 
gave them a refund  of their premium for that year. But it didnt agree to refund                     
Mr D and Mrs D with premiums for any other years.
Unhappy with this, Mr D and Mrs D made a complaint  to us. The investigator who looked  at it 
said she couldnt investigate Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about those policies sold before 
2013 because  this isnt allowed under the rules  that set out about  what complaints we can 
and cant look into. But for the policies sold from 2013, she said she didnt think  Homeserve 
mis-sold them by not including  information  about customers  being  able to shop around for a 
better deal in their 2019 renewal letter.
Mr D and Mrs D disagree with our investigator  and so their complaint has come  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give will help them  to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
I agree  with our investigator that, under  our rules, as set out by our investigator, we can only 
look at the policies Mr D and Mrs D bought  from 2013 onwards.
And like our investigator,  from what Ive seen, I dont think  these policies were mis-sold. The 
information Ive got from Homeserve  about  them shows  it didnt  recommend  the cover  to    
Mr D and Mrs D. So it didnt need to make sure it was right for them.  This was a decision   
Mr D and Mrs D needed to make  for themselves. But Homeserve did need to give them clear 
information about the policies so they could  make that decision in an informed way.
Ref: DRN18770172Mr D and Mrs D say none of their policies met their needs. But it seems they say this only on 
the basis of the wording  Ive already referred  to that was missing only from their 2019 
renewal letter. They dont  give any other reasons why they think all of their other policies 
were mis-sold.
Mr D and Mrs Ds 2019 policy was cancelled  at their request, following  the letter from 
Homeserve, and they were given a full refund. Clearly, it was right for Homeserve to carry 
out Mr D and Mrs Ds instructions on this.
But I dont think missing  the wording from their 2019  renewal about  shopping  around  for 
cover at a better price means all  or any  of the policies they bought from 2013 onwards 
were mis-sold. The missing wording had no effect  on the cover theyd previously been 
offered  which, from the policy  terms Ive seen, seems reasonably  clear   and it had no 
impact on their ability to make a claim.
So, although  Homeserve  made a mistake  in not including the wording about shopping 
around in their 2019 renewal, I dont  think Mr D and Mrs D have lost out because of it. That 
means I dont think theres anything  Homeserve needs to do to put things right for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1877017