K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs C (the complainants) say a partner  of St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management 
Plc (the SJP partner) gave them erroneous investment advice  in January 2017 and 
maintained that advice  for around  18 months until it was corrected in July 2018.
background
The complainants  say:
They met with the SJP partner as novice investors and, at the outset, explained to 
him their plan to relocate to a country  in the European Union (the new country)  for a 
desired lifestyle change. In this context, he recommended an International 
Investment Bond  (IIB) in which  they planned  to invest the proceeds of the sale of 
their residential home in the UK. 
They planned to invest £300,000  in this respect but the SJP partner suggested  a 
reduction to £250,000.  They needed the investment to provide them with income in 
the new country in future years. Action on the recommendation was planned  to be 
reviewed and to commence after they had completed their move to the new country  
(and had become  resident in the new country).
The purchase of their residence  in the new country was funded by the proceeds of 
the sale of a property investment and by personal  funds.
Between January 2017 and June 2018 the SJP partner, who started working with 
another adviser around August 2017,  maintained  the recommendation at all times 
(including during  a meeting in May 2018  and within his subsequent  letter  in the same  
month). During this period he was kept informed of the following  that they had put 
their UK residence on sale (in March 2017); that they had paid the deposit  for their 
residence abroad (in May 2017); that they had completed  the purchase of their 
residence abroad (in October 2017); and that they had exchanged contracts (in June 
2018) for the sale of their UK residence  and were due to complete that sale in August 
2018.
In July 2018 the SJP partner informed them that the IIB was unsuitable for them. 
Later in the same  month, and then in the following month,  his associate explained 
that they were  unable  to advise residents of the new country to invest in the IBB and 
that they were  hesitant to recommend any UK based alternatives. These revelations, 
long after their purchase of the residence  abroad  and so close  to the irreversible 
completion of the sale of their UK residence, conflicted completely with everything 
they had been told and reassured  about between January 2017  and June 2018.
They seek compensation for  the loss of earnings they have experienced in the new 
country since ceasing their business and employment in the UK upon their relocation; 
costs associated with the relocation to and property purchase in the new country; and 
costs associated with rectifying their position  and related to eventually returning to 
the UK as they had always planned to do after around 10 years  in the new country.
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) upheld the complaint and it accepts that 
the SJP partner did not make it clear to the complainants  that he was unable  to make the 
specific recommendation as a result of their relocation  to the new country. It offered them  
£1,000, without prejudice, for the trouble and upset caused by the matter but it disagreed 
with the compensation claims they made. It said:
The complainants  relocation to the new country  was not dependent  on the SJP 
partners advice. Their  intention to relocate was in place prior to discussions with him.
Ref: DRN10996922It does not consider  that the SJP partner gave the complainants  formal advice in the 
matter, the discussions were about  potentially investing in the IIB after their new 
circumstances were  established and stable.
The complainants  experienced a loss of expectation  in terms of not being able to 
invest in the IIB  but no investment took place and they have suffered no investment 
loss.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and noted evidence that supports the 
substance of the complaint. In the main,  he concluded  that the SJP partner advised  the 
complainants unsuitably and that, as novice investors, it was not unreasonable that they 
relied on his advice throughout, did not seek alternatives and did not notice  the absence  of 
formal suitability assessment documents. He considered that they should  be paid the 
increased amount  of £2,000 in order to properly reflect the trouble and upset caused by the 
matter. However, he was not persuaded by their claims for the recovery  of losses associated 
with their relocation to the new country. He said they were intent on relocating to the new 
country in any case.
The complainants  retain  their claims for the losses they presented. In the main and in 
response to the adjudicator, they re-presented  evidence to establish the substance of their 
complaint and, in relation to the claims for losses associated  with their relocation  to the new 
country, they asserted that they would not have bought the residence abroad if the IIB was 
unavailable to them and that when they learnt  about this their relocation was irreversible. 
SJP retains the view that its offer to the complainants is sufficient, for the reasons it 
previously gave, and it disagreed with the increase proposed by the adjudicator. 
The adjudicator discussed his view with the complainant and agreed to review  the matter.  
However, he thereafter decided to refer the matter  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the adjudicator agreed to review the complaint after his initial view. That 
review did not take place  and instead  the matter was referred to an ombudsman.  I have 
reviewed the complaint,  including evidence that has been made available to us and all the 
submissions that the parties have made to us. I also assure the complainants that I have 
considered the detailed  submissions they made following confirmation that the complaint will 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
Having done the above, I do not consider that the adjudicators conclusions should be 
revised. I agree that the complaint should  be upheld on the basis  of unsuitable  advice from 
the SJP partner, that the complainants should  be paid £2,000  for the trouble and upset 
caused to them and that their claims for losses associated to their relocation to the new 
country has not been sufficiently established.
Merits
As the complainants submitted, they liaised  continuously with the SJP partner between  
January 2017  and August  2018.  There is enough evidence from the first 18 months of that 
period to conclude  that the SJP partner recommended the IIB investment to them  and that it 
Ref: DRN10996923was to be made after completion  of their relocation.  This step was to be reviewed once the 
complainants had relocated  to the new country. However, evidence suggests that the review 
was intended  to clarify the practicalities of making  the investment  not to reconsider 
whether (or not) the investment should  be made.  There  is correspondence  from both parties  
that shows a mutual understanding and agreement in this respect.
There is also internal  correspondence  from SJP in which it concedes that the SJP partner 
should have clarified  but did not clarify   to the complainants  at the outset  that they could 
not invest in the IIB as residents of the new country,  given that their relocation plans were  
known to him from the start.
Overall, the balance of available  evidence  shows that the SJP partner made a fundamental 
error by recommending  an unsuitable  investment to the complainants   to be pursued  as 
residents of the new country  which he knew or ought to have known they could not invest 
in as residents  of the new country. He compounded that error  by affirming  it and failing to 
correct it over the course of around  18 months. Evidence does not support SJPs argument 
that advice was not given  to the complainants  in this respect. Unsuitable advice was given to 
them and they relied upon it until July 2018.  
Like the adjudicator,  I too do not consider it unreasonable that the complainants  did not seek 
alternative advice  or query the absence of formal suitability assessment documents.  I draw  
no inferences in this respect. It appears  that they were novice investors at the time, so it is 
reasonable to conclude  that they would not have been minded to doubt  advice from what 
they say they considered to be a competent and reliable source, and that they would not 
have known about the sort of formal  suitability assessment documents  to expect. The advice 
they received  was confirmed to them in meetings and communications  with the SJP partner 
during the relevant period, so this could explain why they were not alerted to the absence of 
more formal documentation.
Compensation
In straightforward terms, I consider that £2,000 reasonably reflects  the profound  trouble  and 
upset the complainants  experienced upon  realisation that their expectation  sustained over 
the course of 18 months by continuous unsuitable advice from the SJP partner  of having 
the IIB to provide  them  with future income  in the new country had been dashed. I accept that 
the IIB was an integral part of their relocation  plans.  However, for reasons summarised 
below and which defeat their claims for losses, I do not accept that they would not have 
relocated and would not have incurred the associated costs/losses they have claimed for, 
but for the IIB recommendation.
There is ample evidence  that the relocation  was the complainants predetermined plan 
before they met the SJP partner  their complaint  submissions essentially concede this. 
They have explained how methodical they are in manging their affairs and I consider  that 
adds to the conclusion, on balance, that by the time they met the SJP partner and shared 
their plan with him it had been well-conceived  and was certain. 
I accept that their need for an investment to support them in the future in the new country  
given that they did not plan to work there   was important. However, I disagree with the 
suggestion that they would have abandoned  their relocation plan altogether if the IIB was not 
recommended to them or if they were told it was not suitable for them.  It appears  more likely 
(than not) that they would  not have  abandoned their plan, that they would have  relocated  
Ref: DRN10996924anyway and that they would have explored  alternative investments  instead  either through  
the SJP partner or another  adviser.  
In the above context, even though  SJP is responsible for the trouble and upset  caused  to the 
complainants it cannot fairly be responsible for their relocation related costs/loss which  were  
not direct  consequences of its partners unsuitable  advice and which the complainants  
probably would have incurred in any case.  In this respect, I consider that they probably 
ceased their business  and employment in the UK because they intended to relocate in any 
case and irrespective of the IIB recommendation; that they incurred the relocation related 
expenses for the same  reason;  and that their claim for the costs of rectifying their position  
and in relation  to their prospective  return to the UK after around 10 years  is also related to 
the relocation that they would have  pursued  in any case and irrespective of the IIB 
recommendation.
what must  SJP do?
Overall and on balance,  I am persuaded that fair compensation for the complainants  is 
limited to the £2,000 payment that SJP must  make  to them for the trouble and upset  caused  
to them.  SJP must pay the complainants  interest on this amount at the rate of 8% simple  per 
year from the date of this decision  to the date of settlement if the £2,000  payment  is not 
made to the complainants  within 28 days of SJP being notified of their acceptance of this 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs and Mrs Cs complaint and I order St. Jamess  
Place Wealth Management Plc to pay them compensation  for trouble and upset as detailed 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and 
Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision before  8 February 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1099692