K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that RRG Group Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 2006, Mrs B was sold a single premium PPI policy by RRG when buying a car on hire 
purchase.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs B says she felt pressurised into taking out the PPI by the RRG representative she spoke 
to. She says she was given the impression that she was expected to agree  to take the policy 
in order to obtain her loan. But I have  to bear in mind that this sale took place over ten years  
ago and a persons recollections of financial transactions like this one can tend to fade over 
such long time periods.  So I need  to look at all the information available  to me to decide 
what I think is most likely  to have happened then.
RRG has provided a copy  of the hire purchase  agreement that Mrs B signed for her loan. 
And I can see that this shows  the extra amount she was borrowing to pay for the PPI; the 
interest that would be charged on this additional borrowing;  the monthly  repayment  required  
and the total amount she would have  to pay for the PPI over the whole term of the loan. I 
can also see that Mrs B has signed separately on the form to confirm she wanted to take out 
PPI.
RRG dont have any record of what was discussed  at the meeting  when  the PPI was sold to 
Mrs B. But thats understandable given how long ago it took place. However,  Mrs B took out 
PPI for accident and sickness, together with life cover. This was less comprehensive cover 
than that available to her under the policy and didnt provide any protection  against 
redundancy. This suggests to me that a discussion is likely to have taken  place about  the 
different cover options available to her and that she chose the cover which  she thought 
suited her best.
It remains a possibility that Mrs B was wrongly  misled into thinking  she was expected to take 
PPI with her loan, rather than this only being  recommended by RRG. But her recollection  of 
the meeting doesnt seem  particularly vivid or detailed. So I dont  think  it would be fair for me 
to conclude that its most likely RRG put undue pressure on her to take the policy, based 
solely on what she thinks she remembers happening then. 
Having carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think its more likely than 
not that Mrs B knew at the time that the PPI cover  was optional and that she actively  agreed 
Ref: DRN16130122to take it, without undue pressure being  applied by RRG. But I can understand why she may 
not remember this now.
Both Mrs B and RRG say this was an advised  sale, so Ive taken  this to be the case. This 
means that RRG needed to make sure that the policy was suitable for Mrs B. I dont know 
how it did this. But from what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time,  I cant  see any 
reason why the policy wasnt suitable.  I say this because:
Mrs B appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs B says she didnt need the cover the policy provided because  she had other means 
of making her loan repayments if she couldnt  work.  But this policy would have paid out 
in addition to these other  means.  It would have  given her specific  protection  for her loan 
repayments for up to sixty months if she wasnt able to work because  of an accident or 
sickness. This is longer than her sick pay and savings could be expected  to last. And 
although she had other insurance policies in place,  these would seem to have been put 
in place to cover  other types  of risk than this PPI policy or, in the case of her mortgage 
PPI policy, to protect her repayments  on another loan.
Ive no reason to think the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs B. And she chose to 
take out the policy, so appears  to have wanted this type of cover.
If the hire purchase agreement had ended early Mrs B wouldnt have been given a pro-
rata refund of the PPI premium shed been  charged. This made the policy  relatively 
inflexible. I cant be sure that this was explained  clearly to Mrs B when she took out the 
policy. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that it was likely that she might end the hire 
purchase agreement  early. So I dont think this feature  of the policy, by itself,  made  it 
unsuitable for her.
RRG also needed to ensure that Mrs B was given enough information  about the PPI policy  
for her to decide  if she wanted to take it. I think its possible that the information it gave her 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable  for her, I dont think better information would have changed  her mind 
about taking it. I think  shes still have thought it gave her useful protection  at an affordable 
cost.
So whilst I know this will be a disappointment  to Mrs B, I dont  think  that she has lost out by 
anything that RRG might have done  wrong  when  it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against RRG Group Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1613012