K821x#15Complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) unfairly declined his claim for accident 
damage caused by a trapped  bird, after being told that his claim was valid.
Background
Mr T had an insurance policy with Ageas that covered his contents. His policy included 
accidental damage  cover.
When Mr T was away from home for a few days a bird got into his house,  presumably 
through the chimney, and caused a lot of damage. Mr T contacted Ageas to make a claim 
against the accident damage provision of his policy. Ageas told him on the phone that the 
circumstances he described  should be covered and advised him on his next steps to 
progress his claim.
Mr T got cleaners in to professionally clean the affected areas. He contacted  upholsterers  for 
quotes and spent time researching the repair and replacement of damaged  items. Mr T 
provided a detailed explanation of his claim to Ageas.
Ageas considered Mr Ts claim and declined it on the basis that an exclusion in his policy 
applied. They said his policy didnt cover  damage caused by insects, moths,  vermin.  
The policy included a definition  of vermin  as badgers,  foxes, squirrels, rodents and other  
wild animals  and birds (whether protected species or not), which by their nature cause harm,  
damage or disease.
Mr T didnt  think  that Ageas decision was fair. He questioned the part of the definition  for 
vermin which stated by their nature cause damage  because he didnt accept that it was a 
birds nature  to cause  damage. He was also unhappy that hed been led to believe his claim 
was valid and then told ten days later that it wasnt. He was unhappy that in reaching its 
decision Ageas  had never spoken with him and just sent him a written response.
Ageas acknowledged that he had been misinformed  initially  and apologised for the distress 
this caused. They gave Mr T £50 compensation for that upset. They maintained  that the 
decision to decline his claim was in line with his policy  and fair.
Mr T brought  his claim to our service  and an investigator looked at the evidence.  Our 
investigator felt that Ageas decision to decline the damage claim was a fair interpretation  of 
the terms of Mr Ts policy. He didnt feel that the compensation offered was a fair reflection 
of the upset Mr T was caused. So he suggested Ageas pay a further £100 compensation.
Mr T disagreed and this case has been  forwarded for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T suffered considerable damage  to his property as a result of the bird being trapped 
inside his house whilst he was away. He was covered for accident damage  and his policy  
defined this as unexpected and unintended  damage caused by something sudden  and 
external. The circumstances of the damage  arent  contested, and I think it reasonable that 
Mr T made a claim on his policy.
Ref: DRN17152232Given that Mr T established that he had a claim for accident damage,  Ageas needed to show 
that an exclusion applied  in order to decline his claim. I think  that the wording  of the 
exclusion in the policy was clear. The exclusion for damage by vermin specifically covered 
birds.
Mr T said that the wording by their nature  referred  to the nature of an animal  causing  
damage such as a woodpecker pecking  away at beams. Mr T suggested the definition 
should be interpreted  only to refer to birds  - such as woodpeckers  - that might naturally 
cause damage.  Ive considered this, but I dont think its a fair or reasonable interpretation  of 
the exclusion wording. The bird in question was, by nature,  wild. When trapped inside Mr Ts 
property, because of its nature,  it sought a way out and caused  damage in the process.
I understand that Mr T is disappointed that his policy hasnt covered these circumstances. I 
think that Ageas applied  the policy exclusion fairly though, so I think  it was fair and 
reasonable for Ageas to decline this claim.
Mr T wasnt treated fairly when told he was covered, then later that he wasnt. This caused 
him inconvenience in obtaining  information for the claim and upset in having his expectations  
so badly managed.  I dont  think that the £50 Ageas offered reflected the amount of upset 
caused. It took ten days to let Mr T know that a policy exclusion applied to his claim, and in 
that time no one spoke  to him about the matter. If his claim hadnt  been declined though, I 
think a lot of the things  he did - getting  the room cleaned and looking into ways  to repair or 
replace things - were  things he would have done  anyway. I think that an additional £100 in 
compensation more  fairly reflects the trouble and upset he was caused by Ageas mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint  in part. My final decision is 
that Ageas Insurance Limited pay Mr T a further £100 in compensation, in addition to the 
£50 compensation  they have already awarded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1715223