K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wrongly 
allowed an unauthorised party  to alter the address  for correspondence on her account for a 
leased vehicle.  This led to her not receiving  correspondence about  her account and meant 
she was unable to make decisions about  what action to take when the lease was coming  to 
an end. 
background 
In September  2012 Mrs D entered into a four year lease for a van with VWFS. The leased 
van was to be used  by Mrs D and her husband,  Mr D, in their business.  
However, a short time later the plans Mr and Mrs D had for their business  changed  resulting 
in the van being used  by another  close family  member. This close family  member also 
covered the monthly payments for the vehicle. 
Unfortunately in 2013 Mrs D became unwell and for the next few years Mr D took over 
running Mrs Ds finances.  Mr D was added to the account with VWFS as a third party with 
full authorisation.  From  this point Mr D made regular contact with VWFS about account 
issues and payments and he also requested settlement quotes in order  to be able to sell the 
van on. 
VWFS says that in October 2014 Mr D requested that the address for correspondence about  
the account be changed. Mr D continued  to make contact with VWFS  and deal with the 
account. Close to the end of the lease Mr D requested a settlement quote  and stated  that the 
van was going  to be purchased by a third party  company. A quote  was generated and VWFS 
informed Mr D as the hiring  period was coming  to an end and, if the van wasnt  sold,  then 
the agreement  would  fall into the secondary hiring  period and a lump sum payment  would  
also fall due. 
The sale to the third party company didnt proceed  and Mr D was unable  to find another  
buyer and so the agreement entered the secondary  hiring period. The agreement fell into 
arrears and letters about this were  sent to the address recorded on the account. Mr D 
remained in contact with VWFS.  Due to the arrears  VWFS repossessed the vehicle and it 
was sold at auction. There remained arrears on the account of £1,400. 
Following a recovery in Mrs Ds health she decided to take control back  of her finances in 
2018. Mrs D says she then became aware  that the van had been  repossessed  and so made 
contact with VWFS. She then discovered there  had been a change  of address for the 
account. She complained to VWFS  that due to the change of address she hadnt been kept 
informed about  her account.  Mrs D also said that it wasnt  her husband who had requested 
the change of address. 
Ref: DRN10318142VWFS upheld  Mrs Ds complaint. It agreed that it shouldnt have changed the address at the 
request of Mr D but said it was satisfied that it had been him who made the request. 
VWFS said Mr D had been in regular contact,  had obtained termination quotes and made 
payments. It said that as Mr D was an authorised  third party it would be reasonable for it to 
have believed that Mrs D would have been  aware  of the end of lease options which  had all 
been provided to Mr D. VWFS also said that Mrs D would  have  been  aware  from the 
agreement the date it was due to end and that if the van wasnt  returned or sold then a 
secondary hiring period would be entered into.
VWFS said it would be fair for the outstanding balance to be reduced by 50% and for any 
adverse information  on the account to be removed from Mrs Ds credit  file.
Mrs D was unhappy at VWFSs response and complained to this service.  She said this had 
been a serious  data breach and that she had a right to receive information about  her 
account. Mrs D said that under the agreement she was solely liable and nothing discussed 
with her husband should have been considered as something she had agreed, or had 
knowledge of, or assumed to have  been aware  of. Mrs D said she had a right to receive  the 
correspondence about her account and had she received it she would have had the 
opportunity to sell the van privately and the outcome  would have been different for the 
account.
Mrs D says she thought  it would be fair for VWFS  to write off the entire outstanding amount 
on her account and compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by wrongly 
altering the address on the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He said he 
thought VWFS had acted  fairly in admitting it could  have  done better in these circumstances 
and offering to reduce Mrs Ds liability in recognition.
Our adjudicator explained that he wasnt able to look at a complaint about the breach of 
confidentiality as this wasnt within this services remit. Mrs D would need to make  a 
complaint to the Information Commissioners Office for that to be investigated if she wished 
to have that part of her complaint considered. He said this service  could  look at the impact 
on Mrs D of altering the address.
Our adjudicator said that VWFS had agreed it shouldnt have let an authorised third party 
change the address held on the account  and had apologised for doing so. However he could 
see from the notes  provided  by VWFS that Mr D had been in regularly contact managing the 
account on Mrs Ds behalf.  Mr D and VWFS had discussed arrangements for selling the van 
and ending the agreement but this hadnt worked  out and in the end the van had been  
repossessed with arrears  owing.
Our adjudicator said Mrs D had asked  her husband to manage her account at a time she 
hadnt been able to do so herself. And as the person authorised to act on her behalf  Mr D 
had been kept fully informed about  the account  and the available  options  by VWFS. He said 
he understood that Mrs D was unhappy at what had happened with the account and 
information not being passed on by Mr D but thought  this was likely to be due to how the 
agreement had been actually managed.
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think the outcome  for the agreement would have been 
different if Mrs D had been aware  there were arrears on the account. He said there 
appeared to have been multiple attempts to sell the van by Mr D that hadnt worked out. Our 
Ref: DRN10318143adjudicator said in any event it was likely Mrs D would have still been liable for the final 
payment, arrears and associated costs.
Mrs D disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  She said VWFS couldnt assume any third 
party was passing  on information to the person liable and had she received mail at the 
correct address she would have had the opportunity to do something and have changed the 
outcome.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that its agreed the address on Mrs Ds account shouldnt  have been changed at 
the request of the authorised third party. Ive also seen that it appears likely the address was 
changed to that of the relative  whod taken over the use of the van. However, as explained 
by our adjudicator,  any potential complaint  about  a breach of data protection  isnt in this 
services remit  and would need to be made to the Information Commissioners  Office. What  I 
can look at was the impact this change had on Mrs Ds account.
I was sorry to learn that Mrs D had been unwell for a lengthy  period and had seen  that this 
had led to her deciding to authorise Mr D to handle her account. Mrs D said she didnt get 
involved in her account with VWFS  until 2018 but by this time the van had been re-
possessed and arrears  had built up on the account. 
I appreciate Mrs Ds view that VWFS shouldnt have  assumed information  was being passed 
on to her, but I think its reasonable  for VWFS  to assume Mr D was acting in her best 
interests as she had authorised him to deal with the account. I also think  it was reasonable 
for VWFS to assume Mrs D knew the date that the agreement was due to end and what 
would happen  if the van wasnt returned.  Mrs D had signed and agreed  to the leases terms 
and conditions.
Ive seen that Mr D had kept in regular contact with VWFS and options  for the account were 
discussed with him. So I cant reasonably say that VWFS didnt provide information  about 
what action Mr D could take as the lease  was coming to an end, or about what  would 
happen if a secondary hiring period was entered into.
I can appreciate Mrs Ds disappointment on learning  that her account was in arrears, but I 
dont accept her view that if the letters  had been  sent to her about the account the situation 
would have been very different. Ive seen that Mr D was active  in handling her account;  hed 
made payments, requested a number of termination  quotes and tried to sell the van. Mr D 
tried to arrange to sell the van but for reasons unknown these arrangements didnt succeed. 
I dont think I can fairly  say on the evidence before me Mrs D would have been able to 
secure a sale when Mr D could not.
VWFS has removed  any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file and reduced  the 
outstanding arrears by 50 % in recognition that the address shouldnt  have been  altered. I 
think VWFS has acted  fairly in taking  this action. I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to require VWFS to write  off all the arrears  in these circumstances. Mr D was authorised by 
Mrs D to make decisions and get involved in her account and he did so. Unfortunately,  
Ref: DRN10318144despite Mr Ds efforts, arrears still accrued on the account but I cant  reasonably  say this 
was solely  due to VWFS not passing information to Mrs D. I think  the way the account was 
managed has to also be taken into account when looking at why the van was repossessed.
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mrs D's complaint and Im not asking  
VWFS to do more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1031814