K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS)  mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
In my provisional decision of 15 January 2019  (a copy of which  Ive attached  to this final 
decision), I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Neither Mr G nor YBS has responded to my provisional decision, which has now come to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs 
complaint. Neither  Mr G nor YBS has given  me any comments or new evidence to look at, 
and I havent seen anything else to make  me think I should change the provisional 
conclusions I set out in that decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  YBS has, however, paid back  some  of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr G because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr G about  that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold   so Yorkshire Building 
Society doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr G any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont intend to award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18771052COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 15 JANUARY  2019
complaint
Mr G says Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS)  mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
Mr G took out a mortgage with YBS in the 1990s but it wasnt until 2004, when he got a 
further advance  on his mortgage,  that he bought the PPI.
Mr G says, among other things, he wasnt aware  he had PPI and didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Gs complaint upheld it. YBS disagrees and so Mr Gs 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and based  on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend  to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
When Mr G brought his complaint to us he mentioned that, as well as his main job, he had 
money coming in from a separate  business. When we asked him about this he said he 
started the business  in 1982  and worked in it around  37 hours a week. Our adjudicator  
queried these hours, since  Mr Gs YBS loan application showed he was employed  in another  
job as well. Mr G described it as like having  two full-time jobs.
It was on the basis  of this information that our adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint. That was 
because the policy Mr G bought wouldnt have allowed him to claim for unemployment  
unless he was working fewer than 16 hours  a week, actively looking for work and had signed 
a jobseekers agreement.  Because  of his other business, our adjudicator  didnt think  Mr G 
would be able to claim for unemployment under the policy if he lost his main  job. And he 
didnt think Mr G wouldve gone  ahead with the PPI if YBS had made  this clear to him.
But YBS said its records  didnt suggest  hed ever mentioned this other business, either when 
he first took out the mortgage or when he got the further borrowing and bought  the PPI. So 
we asked Mr G if he had any documents  to show he was running a business in 2004  and so 
had two jobs, both over 16 hours a week. Mr G gave us details of the years when the 
business was running but said all his paperwork and records had been destroyed in a flood. 
We then asked Mr G if he could  get any other evidence  such as records from Companies 
House or the Inland Revenue  to show  he was running the business when he bought the 
PPI. So far, we havent had anything more from Mr G.
As things  currently stand, I dont think I have  enough  evidence  to say its likely Mr G had two 
jobs of at least 16 hours a week each at the time he bought the PPI. And so, at the moment, 
I cant fairly uphold his complaint for the reason our adjudicator gave. If, however, Mr G can 
Ref: DRN18771053give me any information to show he was running  a business when he bought  the PPI, Ill look 
at this point again.
Ive also looked  to see if there are any other  reasons why I should uphold Mr Gs complaint 
but I dont think  there are. Although Mr G says he wasnt aware of the PPI, at the time, he 
signed a separate and fairly detailed PPI application  form. This set out the monthly  benefit  
he wanted, the level of cover  hed chosen (accident, sickness and unemployment)  and the 
number of days hed have to be off work before he could claim.  So I think Mr G wouldve 
known he was buying PPI (even though, understandably, he doesnt now remember  it). And, 
since he signed the PPI application form separately  from the application for the further 
borrowing, and his offer letter from YBS said hed chosen  to take out the PPI, I think  he 
agreed to it knowing  he didnt have to have  it.
Mr G and YBS agree  the PPI wasnt recommended  to Mr G personally.  So YBS didnt need 
to make sure it was right for Mr G in his particular circumstances. But it did need to give     
Mr G enough clear  information for him to be able to make that decision himself in an 
informed way. I dont  know  what steps YBS took to do this, and it may be some things 
werent made as clear  to Mr G as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information,  if 
it had been needed, wouldve stopped Mr G buying  the PPI. I say this because, from what he 
says of his circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got:
Mr G was eligible for the PPI. And, subject to any further  information  Mr G gives  us 
about his business,  I dont think there was anything to stop him claiming the full 
policy benefits if hed needed to.
I think Mr G couldve  found the PPI useful since a mortgage  is a significant and long-
term financial commitment and your home  is at risk if you fall behind  on your 
repayments. Although  it seems  Mr G got some sick pay and he says he had savings,  
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer than Mr Gs full sick pay 
lasted. And it wouldve  meant  he didnt  need to fall back  on his savings, which he 
mightve needed for other things.  Mr G has also mentioned  he could rely on family 
and friends but I dont  think  this is the same  as having an insurance  policy  to fall back  
on. So I think the PPI couldve given him important peace of mind. 
The monthly cost of the PPI was set out in Mr Gs offer letter, although  its not very 
prominent. But in any case, I think Mr G wouldve known hed be paying something 
for the cover once  the initial six month free period ended  and it doesnt seem  to have 
been unaffordable for him.
So based  on the information  Ive got so far, on balance, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
YBS has, however,  paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr G about  that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN18771054my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont currently think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Yorkshire 
Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr G any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont intend to award any further compensation. 
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1877105