K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that CMC Spreadbet Plc (CMC) had a responsibility to address 
indications that trading  (and excessive trading losses) in his execution only account was out 
of control. He says CMCs  failure  to do so allowed his out of control trading to continue  and 
caused, at least  partly, the significant  financial losses in the account.  
background
Mr D says his out of control trading  amounted  to a gambling problem and was evident 
between July 2013 and September 2018,  during which he lost almost £3 million 
(accumulated over almost every month in this period). 
He says CMC compounded its failure  to address his problem by providing  him with a 
succession of rebates  to encourage more trading  instead of acting to restrict or stop the 
trading (and losses); and by encouraging a professional  client account upgrade in 2018, 
ahead of the incoming rules (that year) from European Securities and Markets  Authority  
(ESMA) designed to protect retail  clients (as he was prior to the upgrade). 
Mr D concedes majority  of the responsibility  for his trading and losses  but asserts  that  as 
an FSA regulated firm [CMC]  should have done more  to stop [him] from [himself] and that 
CMC neglected its clients  best interest  obligation  towards him. He also accepts signing and 
agreeing account  documentation presented  to him by CMC, but mainly  asserts the following:
The reckless and time consuming nature  of his trading (and losses) in the account 
was very obvious, upon any form of monitoring, and would/should have been 
identified by CMC. It should also have realised  his losses  were unmanageable and 
that his use of substantial time in trading made it unlikely  he had time to earn a living  
 combining into a grave state of affairs that should have prompted its intervention.
CMC  was irresponsible  to have provided him with a form of credit  facility for his 
negative balances  as opposed  to suspending  or closing his account  until the 
negative balances were cleared. Instead,  it temporarily cleared the negative balances  
and gave him rebates to encourage continuation of his trading and then recovered 
the losses when  he was able to fund the account.
On numerous  occasions he desperately asked CMC for rebates  any possible 
rebates available  and this should  have been  an indication of his gambling problem 
and an indication that his trading was unaffordable. This too should have prompted 
CMCs intervention.
Despite CMCs awareness of the history of substantial losses in his account,  of his 
negative balances, of his repeated needs  for rebates and of attempts to fund his 
account being declined, it nevertheless encouraged him towards the professional 
client account upgrade in 2018. It was obvious  that such  an upgrade was 
inappropriate for him, yet CMC  encouraged and granted it  in order to continue 
profiting from his losses.
CMCs position  which it has presented alongside detailed documentation   is mainly as 
follows:
It disputes the complaint and disputes Mr Ds claim that it has or shares responsibility 
for his trading  and/or losses. It also notes that it did not profit  from his losses as it did 
not fill all trades from its balance sheet.
Ref: DRN15401092Mr D had two execution only online trading accounts  a spread-bet account  opened  
in July 2013 and a Contract for Differences (CFD) account  opened in March 2018.  
At both times he was provided  with, acknowledged and agreed detailed  
documentation about the accounts  and detailed risk warnings. Based on information  
provided by him, both accounts were also properly  assessed as appropriate for him. 
In 2016 and in relation to an account funding issue CMC sought updated information 
on his finances  and he confirmed source of funding as being  personal wealth (in the 
amount of £25 million,  inclusive  of his familys wealth and his business);  annual 
business income of £250,000; and annual income  of £500,000 from other sources.
He was fully aware  of the execution only basis for his accounts and of his sole 
responsibility to manage and monitor all aspects of the account  and his trading. CMC 
had no part to play in this responsibility  which he knew  it was not engaged in 
monitoring his account activities,  it did/does not analyse trade  sizes  or profits  and 
losses in accounts  and it did/does not hold information about  account holders wider 
assets. Aside from the fact that it did/does not comment on trading activities  in 
accounts, due to the lack of such information, monitoring  and analysis it could  not 
comment on such activities anyway.
He was given  and had access to all relevant account activities  that arose from his 
trading  including, but not limited  to, losses, liquidations, statements (daily,  weekly  
and monthly) and balances. He continuously funded  his account in order  to continue  
trading. He did this 5,419 times  and his account  was liquidated  a total of 1,837 times, 
with notice to him each  time.
He was always aware of his losses  and negative balances; he negotiated  debt write-
offs five times and many early rebate payments (before he was entitled  to them) on 
the basis of threats to move his account  elsewhere if his demands were  not met.
Telephone call recordings show he was given information about the professional  
client account upgrade in a factual manner, without any pressure upon him and that 
his response was initially that he was not interested in it (which shows  the absence  of 
pressure). He thereafter became  interested  and even put pressure on CMC by 
suggesting (in an email)  that a competitor firm could offer him a better professional 
account. CMC followed the regulators rules  in COBS 3.5.3 R, with regards to 
assessing his eligibility  for the upgrade so the assessment did not relate to the 
profit/loss state of his account (which it did not monitor). Appropriateness was also 
assessed and approved for the upgrade  based  on information he gave.
Rebates were not given as an incentive  for the upgrade, they were always given in 
response to his requests for them   this extended  to the loyalty/welcome  bonus he 
asked for (and was given (in the amount of £1,000))  as part of the upgrade.  ESMA  
prohibited such  rebates and promotional bonuses to retail  clients  from 
1 August 2018, this information  was known to Mr D before it became effective and 
there is email evidence of him seeking  to exhaust particular rebates before they 
stopped. This defeats his claim that he was threatened with the loss of rebates if he 
did not upgrade  his account.
Upon being  granted  the upgrade he was given  express notice that he retained the 
right to revert to a retail account  at any time and that he was obliged to update  CMC 
on any occurrence that might affect his eligibility for the upgraded account. He did 
neither. Information  upon which the upgrade was granted included  his confirmation of 
average frequency of over ten significant  sized transactions  per quarter over the 
previous four quarters, around 176,000  trades in his account up to the point of the 
upgrade and a savings  account bank statement for him dated  8 May 2018 which 
showed savings  of £546,016. He requested the upgrade on 24 January 2018 and 
was granted the upgrade on 9 May 2018.
Ref: DRN15401093In terms of Mr Ds reference to the ESMA rules, because of the dramatic  potential  
changes they would  make to margin  arrangements in retail  accounts it was important 
to give account  holders  early notice  including notice about the elective professional 
client account upgrade option  if any account  holder  was interested in this.
At no time prior to 8 October 2018  did Mr D ever disclose to CMC that he had a 
gambling problem,  or that his trading and losses were out of control or that he was in 
debt. He revealed these  on the above date, essentially  after-the-event and after his 
complaint.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded that it should  not be 
upheld. In the main, she broadly agreed  with most of CMCs  position  on the complaint and 
the evidence it had presented. She was satisfied with evidence that the account was 
properly assessed  as appropriate  for Mr D; that the execution only service meant CMC  was 
not obliged to monitor his account,  trading  or losses; that he was properly assessed, based 
on the regulators rules,  as eligible for the professional client  account upgrade (and the 
upgraded account was appropriate  for him); that even if the information he provided in the 
process was exaggerated CMC was entitled to rely upon it in the absence of cause  to doubt 
it at the time; and that overall,  he did not make  CMC aware  that he was struggling with 
funds, instead  he gave it the impression  (and information) that he had significant savings 
and a high income.
Mr D requested an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
Appropriateness
In light of relevant  supporting evidence, it should  not be in dispute that Mr Ds accounts with 
CMC were  based on an execution only service.  That service  meant  the appropriateness 
assessment only needed  to establish his knowledge, experience and understanding of 
trading and risks; and that they made  the accounts appropriate for him because, in simple 
terms, they were transferrable  to what he would be trading in the accounts.  
I am satisfied that  based on information provided  by Mr D and upon  which  CMC was 
entitled to rely (especially  as there  does  not appear  to have been cause for it not to)  the 
account opened in 2013 was properly assessed as appropriate for Mr D. I am also satisfied 
that detailed and sufficient risk warnings were given to him at all relevant times.
There is no ongoing responsibility upon  a firm to continue reviewing appropriateness after 
the initial assessment.  The judgment in QUINN v IG INDEX [2018] EWHC 2478 (Ch) gives  
guidance to this effect. In Mr Ds case, the implication  is that the account remained 
appropriate for him from 2013 onwards. The regulators rule at COBS 10.4.2 R reinforces 
this and says a firm  is not required to make a new assessment [of appropriateness]  on 
the occasion of each  separate  transaction  by its client(s), and that a firm complies with 
the rules for assessing appropriateness  provided that it makes the necessary 
appropriateness assessment before beginning that service. 
Ref: DRN15401094Based on what appears to be credible and detailed evidence the account opened in 2018 
and the professional client account upgrade in that year were also properly assessed as 
appropriate for Mr D. The regulators rules do not require a firm to assess  a clients  
expertise, competence or trading success rate in the context of appropriateness.  
The losses  (or, lack of trading success)  in Mr Ds account by 2018  and the associated  
issues he has highlighted about funding problems and his need  for rebates  were  not 
supposed to be a part of CMCs appropriateness assessment. On balance, I also consider  it 
plausible that it did not monitor, and lacked  monitoring related information about, profit/loss 
and trading analysis for his accounts.  Its execution only service meant it was not required to 
conduct such monitoring and analysis, so with no obligation to do so (and no associated  
payment/revenue in this respect) I consider it unlikely that CMC would have done so. 
Elective Professional  Upgrade
The investigator correctly  quoted, to Mr D, the contents of the regulators rules for assessing  
eligibility for this upgrade.  CMC appears to have done the same previously.  As such,  I do not 
consider it necessary to quote the same.
The upgrading of Mr Ds account complied  with the relevant rules (under COB 3.5.3 R). The 
qualitative test under the rules was akin to, but was also a slight extension of, the 
appropriateness test  given that, unlike for the latter, the former included consideration of 
the account holders  expertise. However,  this falls short of capturing  Mr Ds argument that 
his trading performance should have been a key factor.  The rules expressly provide that the 
assessment  including that of expertise  is to establish whether (or not)  the client is 
capable of making his own investment decisions and understanding  the risks involved  
The rule did/does not extend  to establishing  whether (or not) the client  was a competent  
and/or profitable  trader.
At least  two out of the rules  three  quantitative  tests had to be met, and were met by Mr D; 
and the rules application procedure requirements  were also met by the events  featured  in 
the upgrading of his account.
Mr Ds arguments appear to relate more to what he views as wider  elements that meant  the 
upgrade should not have been allowed; and on his assertion that he was unduly  encouraged 
(and coerced) to pursue the upgrade. With regards to the latter point, the balance of 
available evidence does  not support him, especially  as there is evidence of pressure from 
him  not upon him  to get the upgrade. 
Furthermore, and as was relevant to his eligibility, he expressly requested the upgrade and 
had reason for  doing so as he viewed the impending ESMA restrictions  as a prospect that 
went against the sort trading he conducted. There is also a lack of evidence  of coercion by 
CMC  with regards to rebates or in any other respect  upon him in this matter. As CMC 
says, the rebates were always initiated  by his requests, and evidence of some of those 
requests show that he was sometimes forceful  in asking for them.
With regards to the former point  about  wider elements  as stated above, the elements 
that were supposed  to be assessed for the appropriateness of the upgraded account  and 
with regards to his eligibility  for the upgraded account were prescribed by the regulators 
rules, were  properly established  and did not include the wider  issues Mr D has referred to.
CMCs overall responsibility for Mr Ds best interests
Ref: DRN15401095The remainder of Mr Ds arguments  can reasonably  be addressed under his reference  to the 
regulators clients best interests rule.
The regulators Handbook  includes a principle  for businesses  under Principle 6  to  
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. COBS 2.1 then says 
the clients best interests rule is about  the requirement upon  a firm to  act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client 
Firms provide clients with a variety  of services, so the above rule is to be applied  in the 
context of the relevant service. In Mr Ds case, his account was based on an execution  only 
service, in which CMC provided  him with the trading facility but did not give him advice, did 
not manage his account, did not monitor his account and had no obligation to undertake or 
share responsibility for his trading (or trading outcomes).  Unless CMC was made aware of 
Mr Ds gambling problem   or ought  reasonably to have been  aware  of it  I do not consider 
there is a basis to establish that it should have acted honestly, fairly and professionally to 
address it.
Available evidence  suggests that Mr D did not disclose his problem to CMC until late 2018, 
as he complained or thereafter. Previously, he presented a different and somewhat mixed  
picture to CMC whereby he repeatedly sought  rebates,  had some  negative balances but also 
gave CMC the impression  that he was significantly wealthy and was a high value client that 
CMC should  appreciate and must  consider worth  keeping   as opposed to losing him to a 
competitor firm. This can be gathered  from a number  of his contacts and correspondence 
with CMC. I do not accept  that CMC ought reasonably to have concluded that there was a 
gambling or an unaffordability problem  or that his trading was out of control  from such  a 
picture.
It must be noted that CMC was not responsible for assessing suitability  of Mr Ds trading. 
Affordability usually  arises in the consideration of suitability, not necessarily  in the context  of 
providing an execution  only trading  service  (as CMC  did). For firms like CMC and in the 
sector, the notion of account holders  accumulating  significant losses  (or having negative 
balances) is not uncommon. Many of them include in their promotions, and account  
information, notices  about the percentage of clients that make trading losses  (and that most 
clients make  losses).  The fact that Mr D was making  significant losses (and/or had negative  
balances), in isolation,  would  not have been  enough  for CMC  to automatically conclude 
there was a gambling problem. 
The same applies to the rebates Mr D repeatedly  sought and the account funding  issues  he 
experienced. Primarily, CMC was not monitoring his trading  habits and was not required to 
do so. Without being  told he had a gambling  problem, such  a problem was not the obvious 
conclusion for it to draw  in relation  to the rebate requests and funding issues. For example, 
and based on evidence, the former probably indicated  to CMC that he wanted to ensure that 
it acknowledged and gave him benefits  for his importance as a high value and loyal 
customer. Some of his emails to CMC  including about rebates  express this. The latter   
the funding and negative balance issues  should be viewed  in the context  of Mr D 
successfully funding his account numerous times  over the years  and doing so in high value  
amounts. 
In this context, I am not persuaded that the incidents of funding and negative balance  issues  
were enough  to indicate to CMC that there  was a gambling problem. Furthermore, as stated 
above, considering affordability was arguably  beyond its responsibility.
Ref: DRN15401096Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1540109