K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Builders Direct  SA has voided  (cancelled) his home insurance policy  
and wont pay his theft claim. 
background
Mr H took out a home insurance policy with Builders  in July 2018. The policy  included  cover 
for contents,  personal  belongings  and valuables of £100,000.  About six weeks later Mr Hs 
home was burgled.  Approximately £90,000  of contents were stolen. This was largely  
comprised of jewellery valued  at  £82,000.  There was also damage to the kitchen window 
where the burglars  had forced their way into the home. Mr H made a claim on his home 
insurance policy. Loss adjusters were  appointed  who attended the home, drew up a loss list 
and interviewed  Mr H. 
In October  2018, Builders  informed Mr H it was voiding his policy  and that it wouldnt be 
paying his claim. Builders  said that Mr H had made a careless  misrepresentation when he 
purchased his policy. Specifically it said he had misrepresented the amount of valuables in 
his home  during a phone call to arrange  the policy. Builders said if he had stated the actual 
amount of valuables he had it wouldve  referred his application to underwriters  who had 
since confirmed that they wouldve declined to offer him a policy. Builders said it wasnt 
underwriters approach to accept risks where the amount of valuables  represented a 
significant part of the cover provided.  
Mr H complained to Builders about its decision but it didnt  change  its mind so Mr H 
complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into Mr Hs complaint  but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. She said she didnt  think  Builders had unfairly  voided  the 
policy and declined Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators findings.  He said Builders shouldve  advised him 
during the sales  call to discuss  the amount of jewellery that was in his home with his wife 
and then to let it know. He said the agent prompted him to settle  for a lower figure. And he 
said there was no limit for valuables in the policy schedule.  He said there was one global 
figure of £100,000 for contents  and valuables combined. And he said he thought Builders 
were applying the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations)  Act 
2012 (CIDRA) in the harshest possible way. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer voids a consumers policy, it must do so in line with the law as set out in 
CIDRA. I have to decide whether Builders  has fairly  and reasonably voided Mr Hs policy  and 
declined to settle his claim because he made a careless misrepresentation. With regret  for 
any disappointment that this decision  will cause Mr H, I think  it has. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr H spoke  with Builders twice during the sales process. The first time he got 
a quote for the home insurance policy and on the second call he discussed the price and 
purchased the policy. During the first call, Mr H and the advisor  discussed  the cover  he 
needed. The advisor asked Mr H:if you were  to have to replace the entire  contents  of your 
Ref: DRN12504732home, roughly  how much  would that cost? Mr H answered to say he thought it would be 
under £75,000.
He was then asked: And of that £75,000, how much  would relate  to valuables, such as 
jewellery, watches, gold, silver. Mr H initially said he thought it would approximately  be 
£20,000 but (when the advisor  sought to clarify the amount by asking if he said £10,000)  
amended his answer to say he thought that maybe £15,000 would be more  appropriate.
Neither party dispute the content of this call the outcome of which  is that Mr H said he 
thought it would cost less than £75,000 to replace the contents of his home of which 
valuables made  up around £15,000  of this total. Builders products are designed to give a 
contents and valuables limit of either  £50,000 or £100,000. As Mr H estimated the value of 
his contents to be £75,000  his policy included £100,000 of cover. 
I think the questions  Builders asked Mr H when he took out the policy  were  clear. I can see 
that at the start of the calls there  is also a pre-recorded message which makes it clear  that 
Builders relies on the consumer to give accurate information. The message says:  Its 
important that the information that you give us is accurate. Incorrect information could affect  
the price or your ability to make a claim.
And I understand that after the sale Mr H was sent the policy  documentation.  Within the pack 
he received was a document entitled, Home Cover  Important  Information within  which the 
consequences of providing inaccurate information  are set out. It says: If any of the 
information you give us is not complete, accurate and honest,  we may: cancel your cover; 
refuse to pay any claim
Given the value  of the valuables Mr H claimed for it seems  clear that the information  he 
provided to Builders at the point of sale wasnt correct. That being the case, I have  to think  
about whether  he failed  to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. According 
to CIDRA,  this standard  of care is that of a reasonable  consumer and the consumer can 
only answer the questions to the best of their knowledge. Mr H has said that at the point of 
sale he was unaware  of the amount  of jewellery in his home  as Mrs H had brought home  
some jewellery back from their safe deposit box over a period of time and hadnt returned 
the items.  
I dont doubt what  Mr H says is true. But I cant ignore the difference between  the figure  he 
gave to Builders  of £15,000  and the amount of valuables that were  in the home when the 
theft took place.  I think a reasonable consumer, knowing that he and his wife owned 
jewellery totalling such a high monetary  value, which they removed from their safe deposit 
box from time to time and brought to the home,  would enquire  of his wife what was currently  
in the house. Mr H had the opportunity between the first and second calls (as well as after 
the purchase) to check  with his wife and to contact  Builders but unfortunately for him he 
didnt do so. That he didnt unfortunately means  that I dont think Builders has unreasonably 
concluded that he failed to take reasonable care not to make  a representation.
I note that there was some discussion between the parties about the overall value of the 
valuable items stolen but can see that Builders has accepted the lower of the figures  
namely just under £82,000  as pointed out by Mr H. Builders has confirmed that its decision 
to void the policy wouldve  been  the same whether the valuables  stolen were valued at 
£89,000 or £82,000. 
Ref: DRN12504733Having established  that a careless misrepresentation has been made, Builders must then 
show that it wouldnt have  accepted  the risk. Ive looked at the insurers underwriting guide 
and, as Ive said,  note that the amount of contents and valuables cover  that Builders  offers 
as standard for these types of policy is £100,000. The guide says that a higher level may be 
offered, but this request  would need  to be referred to the underwriter. 
Builders has said that taking the actual  amount  of valuables into account means Mr H very 
likely needed more  than a (total of) £100,000 of contents cover. Indeed  he estimated himself 
that his (non-valuable) contents must  have  a value of around £60,000 (this figure being 
obtained from deducting Mr Hs estimated  valuables  of £15,000 from the overall  contents  
value he gave of £75,000).  So if Mr H had taken  care to answer the questions  he was asked 
during the sale,  Im satisfied, from the underwriting  guide, that it wouldve been apparent he 
needed more  than £100,000 of cover. That being the case,  I can see the guide says such  a 
request wouldve triggered an automatic referral to underwriters. 
Underwriters have said that if Mr Hs application  for cover had been referred as it should 
then they wouldve declined cover. They have said that the pricing of the products offered is 
based on a typical  mix of contents and valuables where the valuables represent  only a small 
proportion of the overall risk. In Mr Hs case they represented over 80% of the cover  he took 
out and about 60% of the true value of his contents. 
So Im satisfied that f the correct information  had been given about  the contents  of Mr Hs 
home the cover wouldve  been referred to an underwriter  who wouldve declined  to offer him 
a policy  and have  recommended  he approach a specialist insurer. 
Ive also thought about whether the misrepresentation  was careless, deliberate  or reckless.  I 
dont think Mr H knowingly provided  inaccurate  information to Builders or that he knew  that 
the information he provided would  be relevant  to its decision.
But I do think Mr H failed to take reasonable care with providing the information to Builders 
at the point of sale and I can see it wouldve made a difference to its decision to accept the 
risk Mr H was asking  it to take on. So I think Builders has been reasonable in treating this as 
careless misrepresentation.  CIDRA permits insurers in such circumstances to void the policy 
and return the premium which I understand Builders has done.  This means Builders  can 
behave as if the policy didnt exist.
Mr H has said that Builders hasnt  responded to his claim under the buildings part of the 
home insurance cover for the damage  done  when the burglars gained  access  to the 
property. But as the policy has been voided, meaning Builders is treating it as though  it 
never existed, theres no requirement for it to pay any claim on a non-existent policy. So I 
dont think Builders has unfairly said it wont consider the part of Mr Hs claim relating to the 
damage sustained  to his buildings.  
Mr H says that Builders  shouldve advised  him during the sales  call to discuss  with this wife 
the amount of jewellery they had in their home.  But I can see this was a non-advised sale. 
That means Builders  provided Mr H with no advice in relation to the suitability of the policy 
for his needs. The responsibility for making  sure the policy met Mr Hs needs and 
requirements rested with him alone. 
Whilst theres no policy limit for valuables stated on the policy schedule, that doesnt, 
unfortunately mean I should make Builders reinstate Mr Hs policy  and pay his claim. 
Builders has voided  Mr Hs policy because it found  hed made a careless misrepresentation 
Ref: DRN12504734during the sales  process. If he had taken greater  care in answering the questions then 
Builders has shown it wouldnt  have  offered  him the policy. And the policy limit for contents 
was stated on the schedule. So if Mr H had taken time to check the value of the jewellery  
currently in his home he wouldve realised he didnt have enough  cover  in place. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think that Builders has unfairly  or unreasonably  
voided Mr Hs policy and declined  to settle his claim for theft. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1250473