K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs P complain  because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance  policy. 
background
Mr R and Mrs P bought an annual travel  insurance  policy online. 
Unfortunately, Mr R fell ill the day before he and Mrs P were due to travel on holiday and 
they had to cancel their trip. 
Mr R and Mrs P made a claim for the cost of the cancelled trip, but IPA said it wasnt 
covered as Mr R had fallen ill before the policy start date. 
Unhappy, Mr R and Mrs P complained  to IPA and then brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, but Mr R and Mrs P didnt  agree,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr R and Mrs Ps policy say, under  an annual multi  trip policy,  
cancellation cover  starts  on the date set out in the policy schedule  or at the time of booking  
the trip, whichever is the later date.  
The later date in this case is the policy start date, which I can see from Mr R and Mrs Ps 
policy schedule was the day they were  due to travel. 
Mr R and Mrs P have  made what I think are some valid points about the differences between  
cancellation cover  under single trip and annual multi  trip travel insurance  policies.  Under an 
annual multi  trip policy, cancellation cover starts on the policy  start date selected  by the 
policyholder. 
So, in order for cancellation  cover to start immediately under an annual multi trip policy, a 
policyholder needs to select the policy start date as the date the policy  is purchased and not 
the date they are due to travel.
I accept this is something many customers buying  annual multi trip travel  insurance may not 
be aware of. Therefore, Id expect an insurer to make it clear at the point of sale that 
choosing a later start date on an annual multi  trip policy means  there is no cancellation cover  
in force  until the policy start date. 
So, the onus is on the insurer to highlight  the consequences of choosing  a later start date to 
the policyholder.  I wouldnt  expect a policyholder  to have  to check the terms and conditions 
of the policy  and work this out for themselves.
Ive looked at the sales process at the time Mr R bought this policy  online.  
Ref: DRN14492822When the policyholder is asked  what type of cover  they want - single or annual multi trip - a 
relatively large pop-up box is automatically  displayed next to the available choices. This box 
contains important  information about  cancellation  cover and the policy start date. It says for 
single trip policies, cancellation cover  starts  immediately but for annual  multi trip policies, 
cancellation cover  doesnt begin  until the chosen start date.
I understand Mr R inadvertently put the policy start date as the date he and Mrs P were  due 
to travel,  as he didnt  understand  at the time how an annual multi  trip travel insurance policy 
worked. And I also understand Mr R says he was hurriedly making  the purchase as the 
website was timing out. But I cant reasonably say IPA didnt make it clear to Mr R that there 
would be no cover for cancellation until the policy start date. 
Mr R was buying the policy on behalf  of both himself and Mrs P so, by making the 
implications of the policy start date on cancellation cover clear  to Mr R and by setting out the 
policy start date on the insurance schedule, IPA did what Id have expected it to. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Rs illness and I have sympathy for the situation he and Mrs P 
have found themselves in, but his illness began before the policy came into force.  Although 
this may have been just a few hours before the policy started and Mr R remain hospitalised  
when the policy started  and beyond,  the insured event here is the onset  of Mr Rs illness. 
As the insured event happened before  Mr R and Mrs Ps contract  with IPA began, the claim 
isnt covered under the terms  and conditions of the policy and I dont think  there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask IPA to accept the claim. 
In further correspondence with our investigator, Mr R has raised  a query  about  the purchase  
of single trip travel insurance cover. I understand Mr R has broader concerns about the 
potential pitfalls for travellers buying travel  insurance, but the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service isnt to regulate the sale of insurance. 
We consider individual complaints where  a customer thinks  a business actions have caused 
them to lose out financially  or have had some other impact  on them. And we can only get 
involved where the business concerned has first been given the opportunity  to resolve  the 
matter. So, if Mr R is unhappy  with the single trip policy he mentioned  then hed need to 
raise a complaint  with the business involved in the first instance before bringing  a new 
complaint to this service.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1449282