K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about a short-term loan granted to him by CURO TRANSATLANTIC  
LIMITED, trading as Wage Day Advance (Wageday).  Mr C says he couldnt afford this loan 
and that Wageday didnt  take appropriate  steps to check whether he could  afford it when he 
took it out. 
background
Wageday agreed one loan for Mr C on the 13 March  2014. The loan was for £235,  and was 
due to be repaid  over 18 monthly instalments. This was made up of 17 repayments of 
£67.41, and a final 18th instalment of £68.38.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Cs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld. The adjudicator felt the checks Wageday carried  out werent 
proportionate. And thought that had it carried out proportionate checks,  it wouldve realised 
this loan wouldve  been unaffordable for Mr C, and therefore would not have  agreed  to it. 
Wageday however  disagreed with the adjudicators findings. So as no agreements  been 
reached, the case has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of Mr Cs borrowing, Wageday  was regulated  by the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, which means Wageday needed 
to check Mr C could afford to repay his loans sustainably. The guidance states that creditors 
should take reasonable steps  to assess borrowers  likely  ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. It also states  that this is 
likely to involve more  than solely assessing  the likelihood of the borrower  being  able to repay 
the credit  in question.
The guidance says that meeting repayments in a sustainable manner means repaying credit 
out of existing income and/or savings  while also meeting other debt repayments  and normal  
outgoings. And it also lists examples of sources of information to assess affordability  these 
include: a record  of previous dealings with the borrower, evidence of income,  evidence  of 
expenditure, a credit  score,  a credit report from a credit reference agency  and information 
obtained from the borrower.
There was no set list of checks that Wageday  was required to complete before  lending. But it 
needed to complete affordability checks that were proportionate. Deciding what  checks  
would be proportionate might include considerations about the amount borrowed, the 
associated cost and risk to Mr C, his borrowing history including any indications  that he 
might be experiencing  (or had experienced)  financial difficulty,  and so on.
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not Wageday  did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Mr Cs loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it done further checks, whether 
it wouldve  realised these  loans may have been unaffordable for him.
Ref: DRN15245652Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I dont think  the checks 
Wageday carried out on Mr Cs loan application  were proportionate. And I think  that had it 
carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded this loan wouldve been  unaffordable 
for Mr C, and wouldnt have agreed to it.
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint for the same reasons  as our adjudicator did and directing 
Wageday to put things  right in the way he recommended. I appreciate this will be a 
disappointing outcome for Wageday, but I hope my explanation will make it clear as to why 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
Wageday said it carried out proportionate checks when  it agreed to Mr Cs loan application. 
It says it used its own bespoke credit scoring logic, and used  comparable  information 
between Mr Cs job role and income  to determine the accuracy of the information he 
provided. 
Wageday said that at no point during the application process was it concerned that the 
information Mr C provided was inaccurate. It also says it did not use credit reference agency 
data during its assessment of affordability, and instead relied on the self-declared 
information provided by Mr C, based on which, it felt the loan was affordable for him. So Ive 
considered this when deciding  this case.
There may be situations where I might deem it reasonable for Wageday  to have just relied 
on what Mr C told it. But on this occasion, because  of both the total cost of the credit  (which 
was more than four times the amount Mr C originally  borrowed), and the extended period 
over which Mr C needed to repay  this loan (18 months), I think Wagedays checks  needed to 
go further.
 
I think that in order  for Wageday to have satisfied  itself that Mr C could afford to make  his 
repayments in a sustainable manner,  proportionate checks wouldve seen Wageday  building  
a full picture of Mr Cs financial circumstances at the time he applied,  to ensure he was in a 
position to repay this loan sustainably. So Ive looked at all the evidence  provided on both 
sides, to try and workout what I think Wageday  wouldve discovered, had it carried  out a full 
review. 
Mr Cs provided  a copy of his credit file, which shows details of his credit commitments  from 
around the time of his application.  
While I accept that in line with the OFTs guidance, Wageday did not need necessarily need 
to carry out a credit check, it did need  to carry out proportionate checks.  And Ive said in this 
case, given the term and cost of the loan, a proportionate check  wouldve been to conduct  a 
full review of Mr Cs financial circumstances.  So Ive used the credit  file Mr Cs provided, to 
help me recreate what I think Wageday wouldve  found out, had it carried out such  a review.  
Having done so, I can see that in the eight months leading up to taking out his Wageday  
loan, Mr C had four outstanding short-term loans with other  lenders.  
Had Wageday looked further into Mr Cs credit commitments, it wouldve discovered that 
existing lenders had taken  action  to default  three of these short-term  loans  between  
August 2013 and December 2013.  And that his fourth loan went  into a debt management 
plan in January  2013, just two months prior to his application with Wageday. 
I think had Wageday  carried out a full review of Mr Cs financial circumstances at the time he 
applied, it wouldve become apparent to it that Mr C already appeared unable to meet  his 
Ref: DRN15245653obligations to his current creditors. And it wouldve  therefore likely concluded that Mr C 
wouldve been in no position to be able start making repayments on a further line of credit in 
a sustainable  manner, and as a responsible  lender, would not have approved his application.
In summary,  I dont think Wageday carried out proportionate checks  when Mr C applied for 
his loan. And I think it wouldve concluded  this loan wouldve been unaffordable for him, and 
would not have agreed to it, had it done so. 
what Wageday should do to put things right
Wagedays told us that Mr C has made no payments  towards this loan since  taking it out.
So in this instance there is no refund due to Mr C. Wageday should therefore  reduce  the 
outstanding balance back to the original capital amount Mr C borrowed, by removing any 
interest or charges it applied.
Specifically, it should:
-recalculate the balance on Mr Cs loan by removing any interest and charges, but 
take account of repayments Mr Cs made,  if any, as though they were  applied against 
the principal sum borrowed
If, after this, any of the principal sum borrowed is still outstanding, a mutually agreeable 
repayment plan should be arranged. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
And I require  CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED,  trading  as Wage Day Advance,  to put 
things right as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
 
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1524565