K821x#15complaint
Ms I and Ms W have complained that esure Insurance Limited has unreasonably held them  
liable for causing  an accident under their motor policy,  which meant their premiums 
increased consequently.
background
Ms W was driving with Ms I as a passenger and they were involved in an accident in 
November 2017  where a coach in the lane beside  Ms W  turning left, when she was turning 
right, hit her car as it turned, when she was still stationary waiting to execute her turn right.
Ms I and Ms W believed the coach  driver  was at fault. However,  esure decided  Ms W was. 
Ms I complained but esure wouldnt change its mind.  This also meant Ms W then had a fault 
incident on her insurance record, which in turn increased the premium  under this policy.
So Ms I and Ms W brought their complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that esure 
had not made a reasonable  decision as regards whose fault this accident was. Esure didnt 
agree, so Ms I and Ms Ws complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Neither this service nor I can decide  who was responsible for causing an accident, as thats  
a matter for the courts. However, my role is to assess whether the insurer, esure here, came 
to a reasonable decision based on all the evidence and industry  best practice to hold Ms W 
responsible for the accident (without  any decision by a court) and I dont think  it did.
Ms I and Ms W explained  Ms W was following  a coach along a road when it came  to a stop 
at some traffic  lights  and was indicating left. Ms W wanted to turn right so she moved up 
beside the bus in the designated right hand  turn lane. The light changed and as the coach 
pulled off to the left its rear end hit Ms Is car. On those facts, its extremely difficult to see 
how Ms W could  have  avoided the accident since she was sitting  in a lane the Highway 
Authority had painted  on the road to permit her to turn right, whilst other traffic going in the 
same direction could  turn left. 
Esure detailed a section  of the Highway  Code, which doesnt appear to be relevant to the 
facts of this accident  since it talks of following a large vehicle. At the time the accident  
occurred, Ms W wasnt following the coach, she was stationary in her designed turn right  
lane beside the coach  and therefore the onus falls to the vehicle executing the manoeuvre  to 
take care that it could  do without incident,  according  to the general principles of the Highway 
Code. Further, if larger vehicles needed  more space to turn left at this corner,  I would have 
thought that would have  occurred to the Highway Authority before it created the designated 
right hand  turn lane at the junction.  That of course entices drivers like Ms W to use such a 
lane since the Highway Authority created it. Obviously, this junction  has caused issues  as 
Ms I has now told us the lanes have  been  widened. So that is further evidence that Ms W 
sitting stationary in a designated right hand turn lane had no ability  to do anything  to avoid 
the coach hitting her.  
Ref: DRN10689712Ms I had details of an independent witness to this accident, which  esure never contacted.  I 
dont consider its reasonable that esure  failed to contact  this witness to ascertain what they 
had to say too, most especially bearing in the CCTV footage and its lack of clarity.
So simply on this analysis  of the evidence, I dont  think esures decision on liability is 
reasonable. The investigator asked  esure  had it relied on legal advice at the time it made  its 
decision, but it couldnt produce the evidence that it had. It subsequently produced legal 
advice, which I dont  find persuasive, as there is no analysis  of the facts of the accident or 
indeed reference  to any law or previous court decisions, which  upholds  its decision. Further,  
despite esure saying  it would  reply  at length,  given it was so concerned that the investigator  
didnt find its decision reasonable, it failed to produce any further arguments to explain its 
thought processes at the time, it decided to hold Ms W responsible for causing this accident.   
Therefore, in the absence of all this, I consider on the facts of this accident, and the lack of 
reasoning or legal precedent by esure,  that its decision that Ms W was responsible  for the 
accident isnt reasonable.
Therefore, I consider  esure should remove the fault incident from Ms Ws insurance record, 
readjust her No Claims Discount (NCD)  if affected  and refund  any extra premium it may 
have charged her consequently.  It should also add interest of 8% simple per year to any 
such refund. If Ms I and Ms W are now insured elsewhere, their new insurers should also be 
able to readjust  the premium they might have charged her.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require esure  Insurance Limited  to do the following:
Rectify Ms Ws insurance to show this accident  is a non-fault accident  only.
Readjust her NCD.
Refund any extra premiums it charged as a consequence adding interest of 8% 
simple per year from the date it charged Ms I or Ms W the extra premium to the date 
it refunds her.*
*If esure Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms I and Ms W how much its taken off. It 
should also give them a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1068971