K821x#15complaint
Mrs I complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed her childrens savings 
accounts and didnt return the funds  to her in time for their holiday.
background
Mrs I had booked a holiday  abroad  with her husband and children. They were going to fly out 
from the UK in mid-August and return in early September 2018. The children had savings 
accounts with RBS so, in July 2018,  Mrs I went into a branch to withdraw holiday spending  
money from those accounts. She was told in the branch that her childrens accounts had 
been closed as they were dormant. But Mrs I hadnt known that they were  going to be closed 
because she says RBS hadnt written to her beforehand. 
A member of the branch  staff told Mrs I they would send off the necessary forms that day so 
that she could  reclaim  the funds from the closed accounts. But there was a problem with the 
form which the staff member completed and this caused a delay in the request being 
actioned. RBS apologised and paid compensation of £100 to Mrs I in July 2018. They also 
reimbursed her for her call costs  of contacting them  about the issue.  And they confirmed that 
the form was with their processing team and said the request for the funds would be 
completed within 28 working days.
The funds were returned to Mrs I on 24 August 2018.  This  was while  she and her family 
were on their holiday. It was a two location holiday and, by the time the funds were credited 
to Mrs Is account, the family had moved on from the first resort to the second  part of their 
holiday. Mrs I says their holiday was ruined because they didnt have access to their 
spending money in time to do the activities they had planned to do. And they couldnt buy 
gifts for the children  while they were away.
When our investigator looked  into the complaint, she didnt think  RBS had done enough to 
address the impact the situation had on the family holiday. She recommended  that RBS pay 
a further £100 compensation.  But Mrs I thought £1,000 would be more  appropriate,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to be reviewed. I reviewed the case afresh and thought that 
compensation of £250 (in addition to the £100  which RBS have already paid) was a more 
appropriate figure to reflect the impact the banks actions had had. I asked RBS if they would 
be willing  to pay this and they agreed. But Mrs I didnt agree  to that amount and asked  for a 
decision to be issued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS accept that they didnt tell Mrs I before closing the accounts  and then made mistakes 
which delayed the processing of the reclaim form. Theyve paid compensation of £100 for 
that, which Mrs I accepted. So I dont need to look at those issues  here. Instead, Ill focus  on 
what happened after that.
The £100  compensation  was credited  to Mrs I in July 2018. After  that, it was another  24 days 
before the childrens  funds were transferred to her. RBS told Mrs I that the request would be 
completed within 28 working days from the end of July. So they met this deadline.  But I need 
to consider whether they acted fairly  in the particular circumstances here.  
Ref: DRN18453232Mrs I went into the branch a month before her holiday to withdraw the funds and told 
members of staff it was intended as holiday spending money. So Im satisfied that RBS knew 
a delay would have a negative impact  on Mrs I and her family.  She had allowed a 
reasonable amount of time to withdraw  the funds before  going  abroad, even though she 
didnt know about  the accounts  being closed. I realise that RBS might usually need 28 
working days to return funds to a customer where an account  has been closed. But I dont 
think it was reasonable  here for them  to give themselves another 28 working days  after the 
initial delay in processing the request. 
In addition, the information RBS have provided  shows that, at the beginning of August, a 
member of their complaints team asked for an exception  to be made  and for the request for 
funds to be processed by 8 August.  The reason given was that Mrs I was going  abroad and 
wouldnt be able to enjoy  her holiday without the funds.  I think  that was a reasonable 
request. And if RBS had transferred the funds  by 8 August it would have been  in time for the 
holiday. But they didnt do it until 24 August and I havent seen anything which explains why. 
So I think RBS do need to pay compensation over and above  the £100  they have already 
paid. To date, Mrs I hasnt been  compensated for any delay beyond  July, or for the impact 
this had on the family holiday.
Mrs I thinks compensation of around  £1,000  would  be appropriate. She has provided a 
tourist information leaflet  showing the activities she and her family had planned to do on the 
first leg of their holiday. She says those  activities  would  have cost £1,000 and they would 
have limited themselves  to activities within that budget if the funds had been available  to 
them. Her bank  statements confirm she didnt have enough funds in her account during the 
first part of her holiday to pay for activities there.  By the time the funds were transferred to 
Mrs I, she and her family had moved on to the next part of their holiday. So I find that the 
delay in the funds being transferred  did have  a negative effect on the first part of the holiday. 
But I think compensation of £1,000 would be too much here. RBS did transfer the funds,  so 
Mrs I has got her childrens money back.  And she received it during her holiday. The family 
did still have their holiday, which had already been booked before the issue  about the 
dormant accounts  came to light. 
But Mrs I says they werent able to enjoy it because they couldnt  do the things they had 
planned to do. She says this was particularly disappointing for her children.  This would have 
been upsetting and I find it likely it did have an impact on the first part of the holiday.  RBS 
knew in advance that this was a possible consequence  of any delay. And I think  it should  
have been possible  for them to make  the funds  available  to Mrs I in time for her holiday, as 
requested by one of their staff.
The aim of the compensation here is to try and put right so far as possible the upset and 
inconvenience which was caused by RBSs  delay in returning the funds.  This isnt 
necessarily the same  as what the holiday activities might have cost.  Taking  into account all 
the circumstances here,  and having  reconsidered  everything again, I still think that £250 is a 
fair amount. This is in addition to the £100  which RBS have already paid.
Ref: DRN18453233my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint in part. My final decision is that The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay compensation of £250 (in addition  to the £100 they have 
already paid)  for the distress and inconvenience  this situation caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1845323