K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2001. Mrs L says Tesco  Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs L didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out. I say this because I have seen a copy of the postal application form Mrs L 
completed and signed.  I can see theres a separate section titled  cardholder payment 
protection under which Mrs L has ticked the box for PPI. If she hadnt wanted  the PPI she 
could have left the box blank or marked it as n/a (which I note she has done for other  
insurance offered  on the form).  
As the policy was sold through a postal application form, I dont think  Tesco gave Mrs L any 
advice to buy the policy (as none  of its representatives would have  spoken  to her). So it 
didnt have to check it was right for her, but it did need to give her enough clear information 
so she could decide if she wanted to take it.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But shes ticked the box to request the policy,  so I think  its likely she would have been 
aware of the kind of cover she was choosing  to cover her repayments if he was unable to 
work due to accident sickness and unemployment. And she chose to take out the PPI 
knowing what employee benefits she had  so it looks  like she still wanted  this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Although  Mrs L says she had 
good sick pay - the PPI policy  wouldve  paid out on top of her sick pay and up to 12 months  
if she was unable to work  due to being  unwell. Its likely  this wouldve been longer than she 
wouldve received  her full rate of pay and the policy would also have paid out if she lost her 
job. The PPI looks like it was affordable. So overall,  I dont think better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:  
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mrs L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN14383592my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1438359