K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  blocked  his account and 
wouldnt release  a large sum of money  hed just paid into it.
background
At the beginning  of April 2018 Mr I obtained a loan from another bank and paid it into his 
Halifax account. It asked  him some  questions about the source  of the money and it wasnt  
happy with his answers and so it blocked  his account. It contacted  the other bank which  told 
it the funds were fraudulent.
Mr I took a large amount of loan documentation from the other bank  into Halifax  to try and 
persuade it to release his money. When it wouldnt do so he came to this Service. While we 
were investigating  his complaint against Halifax the other bank accepted  the money was 
genuine and so Halifax released it to him in August  2018.
Our investigator thought Halifax shouldve done more  to help Mr I and recommended it pay 
Mr I £200 for the stress and trouble itd caused  him. Halifax didnt agree. It said itd followed 
its process and so it hadnt done  anything wrong.  It contacted the other bank at the 
beginning of May 2018 and it confirmed the funds  were fraudulent. So it thought  the case  
was closed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
Mr I took all the loan documentation into Halifax at the end of April 2018. And I agree with 
the investigator that the documentation was sufficient for Halifax  to probe the other bank  
more than it did to try and help Mr I. 
Halifax held on to a significant amount of money Mr I had paid into his account.  Mr I took a 
large number of loan documents  into one of its branches to try and prove the funds were 
genuine. I think that documentation  was enough  for Halifax to try and help Mr I more. It 
doesnt seem to me that Halifax  had any meaningful dialogue with the other bank about the 
nature of the documentation Mr I had taken into its branch.  If itd done that and the other 
bank had still insisted  the funds were  fraudulent then I wouldve agreed that Halifax had 
done all it could to help him. But it didnt.  And so I agree with our investigator that Halifax  
should pay Mr I £200 for the upset and the inconvenience itd caused him.
Ref: DRN14123532my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
should pay Mr I £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1412353