K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the advice received from Pro-Synergy Wealth  & Tax Management  Ltd 
(Pro-Synergy) to invest in a Business Premises Renovation Allowance Scheme (BPRA). 
Mr P says the advice  was misleading and unsuitable for him.
background
On 29 March 2012 Mr P met with an adviser from Pro-Synergy and recalls discussing one 
BPRA scheme. Mr P was encouraged to invest in the scheme  promptly by 5 April in order  to 
benefit from tax efficiency. Mr P spoke  to the adviser again and attended a further meeting 
on 2 April. No notes have been  provided from these meetings but the suitability report does 
refer to Mr Ps priority  being tax planning.
Pro-Synergy offered  an arrangement whereby the developer provided the initial  capital 
contribution on behalf  of investors. Investors had to sign a valid waiver form, confirming that 
any tax rebate would  be paid back to the developer, to settle the loan. So Mr P didnt  have to 
invest any funds at the outset. He recalls being told that this was essentially a free 
investment and there was no risk to his capital. 
Mr Ps current employment contract  was due to end three  months later and he was aware 
that his earnings  could  reduce by roughly  50%. Mr P recalls  that Pro-Synergy advised  him to 
"use this tax allowance whilst I could ". And as a higher level rate tax payer  the net cost to 
him would effectively be nothing.
Mr P believes that Pro-Synergy down played the risks of the investment,  likening the 
situation to: buying  a house  for £100,000 and putting a £50,000 deposit down then 
spending £100k on extending  and refurbing  it; he said what's  the likelihood  of that finished 
property being  worth less than the £50,000  mortgage you owe on it? That's the risk level of 
this investment! Even if that happened he told me we could top up the investment to 
reinstate the LTV which would not require  a large  contribution. 
£43, 886.70 was invested into the scheme, with the majority of paperwork being signed by 
Mr P on 3 April 2012. Mr P says a suitability report was provided  after the decision to invest 
was made.
The suitability report is dated 5 April 2012. It state  that Mr Ps income was around  £210,000, 
so he was an additional rate tax payer. The recommended investor deposit of £43, 886.70  
was said to be readily affordable for Mr P.
Under the attitude to risk section, it was confirmed  that investment risk did apply to the 
scheme and Mr Ps attention was drawn to the risk warnings in the report and LLP 
memorandum (IM). The risk warning section in the report  set out around two pages of risks 
with the investment, which  were not intended  to be exhaustive. At the outset of the warning, 
Mr P was asked to consider whether the investments  were  suitable for him in light of his 
personal circumstances and financial resources. An investment risk warning notice, 
explained that the BPRA was not readily realisable  for cash.
A taxation risk warning explained that BPRA schemes depend on the use of taxation reliefs 
and allowances, it said investors should have  obtained advice from their own tax advisers  
before applying to invest  in the scheme.
Ref: DRN15820992The suitability report states  that the particular BPRA was recommended  as it was the most 
appropriate tax shelter for Mr Ps circumstances. Investing in the BPRA, Mr P would 
become a partner  in a limited liability partnership (LLP), which  would fund the purchase 
and refurbishment of a site for a hotel.  The LLP was to be funded from partner contributions  
and an interest free loan by the developer  to the partnership.
The spending by the LLP was intended  to qualify for BPRA, whereby investors would recoup 
their initial investment by the tax relief  they would receive on their income tax. The LLP 
anticipated tax relief at 96.6% of the gross expenditure.
Mr P recalled that Pro-Synergy implied this was a government approved  scheme to 
regenerate empty buildings.  The risk warnings were generic  rather than specific and so he 
believed the investment was low/medium risk. 
Upon receipt of the tax rebate, Mr P passed the funds to Pro-Synergy to repay  the loan. He 
was then advised that he had £99,000  shares in the development.
In summer  2013, HMRC  began to investigate claims for tax relief  from those who had 
invested in BPRAs.  As a result of that investigation, the LLP was put under  enquiry. Mr P 
was served with an APN from HMRC  in April 2015 and had to repay £25, 463 in tax. The 
LLP went into administration in August 2016, it was then dissolved following liquidation.
On reflection Mr P says he did not have the experience or knowledge to understand the risks 
involved in this investment and had not understood that HMRC could demand repayment of 
the tax relief he had received. Mr P says that had been made properly aware  of these risks 
he would  not have invested.
Mr P seeks  compensation of £43, 886.70 and a refund  of the fees paid for arranging  the 
investment.
Pro-Synergy say that Mr P contacted them about  this BPRA,  which was why the first 
meeting centred on it. Mr P was provided with a copy of the IM and spoke on a further two 
occasions before investing. Pro-Synergy say the main reason Mr P invested was for tax 
rebate and for potential future return. They say we can understand why you may deem  the 
investment to be free, as the projected  tax refund would  likely cover the subscription 
amount. Pro-Synergy say it was Mr P who described  it as being like a free investment. 
They maintain that Mr P did talk with the adviser about the risks inherent or associated  with 
the scheme, but deny that anything  was said to minimise the risks. However, Pro-Synergy 
consider that Mr Ps comments suggest  he was confused about certain risks.
Pro-Synergy deny that Mr P suffered financial loss as he benefitted from an interest free loan 
that was paid by a full tax refund. His capital was not at risk, albeit it was regrettable that 
there had been  an investment failure. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Pro-Synergy hadnt conducted a full 
fact find before promoting the investment to Mr P. Even if a fact find had been carried out, 
the investment  was unsuitable for Mr P. At the time, Mr P did not have the funds to invest 
and he was shortly going  to face a significant reduction in income,  which materially  affected  
his capacity for loss. Further,  by using a loan facility it was likely that he would have to repay 
the tax relief he hoped  to achieve. Mr P believed  this was a free investment with little chance 
of financial loss. As the BPRA  was a UCIS, the nature of the investment was high risk. 
Ref: DRN15820993Overall, our investigator thought Mr P had not been made fully aware of the risks and if he 
had been, she thought  he would not have invested.  She thought it was fair to compensate  
Mr P.
Pro-Synergy disagree. They maintain that the investment  was suitable for Mr P as his focus 
was tax efficiency. They  say the risks were set out in the IM and Mr P did not raise  any 
concerns at the time.  Further they point to Mr Ps other SIPP investment and his knowledge 
having commenced some  professional exams. Pro-Synergy also say the reason for the 
failure of the scheme is still being investigated  and they could not have foreseen the 
problems that arose  and were not responsible for them. In addition, they say HMRC  
changed its interpretation of the rules around BPRAs in 2013 and this was not foreseeable. 
Further the loan was always repayable so it wasnt a linked loan and in any event  Mr P had 
received adequate warning about  the risk that tax relied might have to be repaid. Pro-
Synergy questioned whether HMRC were entitled  to claw back  100% of the tax relief and 
said Mr P had a duty to mitigate his losses.
Pro-Synergy therefore did not agree that it was fair or reasonable to refund  the sum invested  
and they challenged 8% interest.  
Our investigator addressed the points. She didnt  agree that there had been a change  in 
HMRCs approach to BPRAs, she thought  the position was simply clarified  in 2013. Our 
investigator confirmed  that it was largely irrelevant to her view, why the scheme failed. The 
complaint was whether Pro-Synergy had mis-sold the investment. She thought it would be 
unfair to ask Mr P to wait for compensation and pointed to confirmation from HMRC that they 
would be clawing back 100% of the tax relief,  to date Mr P had effectively paid on account. 
She clarified  that Mr P should undertake  to repay  Pro-Synergy up to £43, 886.70  if he 
received any award from a group  action  against the administrators  of the development.
As Pro-Synergy disagrees with the view, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
fact finding
This was an unregulated, collective investment scheme. For Pro-Synergy to have  been  
permitted to promote  this BPRA, they needed  to have taken reasonable steps  to ensure that 
investment in the collective investment scheme was suitable  for Mr P. 
Im not satisfied that Pro-Synergy  undertook  an appropriate fact find about Mr Ps personal 
and financial  circumstances before promoting the BPRA, as they were required to do. That 
was a necessary  step in order for Pro-Synergy to ascertain whether this type of investment 
ought to be promoted to Mr P.
There are no notes  from the meetings Pro-Synergy had at the end of March  and they havent  
been able to show that they discussed Mr Ps circumstances  in appropriate depth. For 
example, theres  nothing  to show that they considered that Mr P did not have the funds  to 
invest and was on the verge of a significant  drop in income, which  would have had an impact  
on his capacity to sustain a loss. Much  reliance appears to have  been  placed on their 
knowledge of Mr Ps role at the time and the short  frame in which  he had to make a decision  
Ref: DRN15820994about whether  or not to invest (around  one week).  Im therefore  persuaded by Mr Ps 
recollection of events, about  which  he has been  consistent, namely that no detailed fact find 
was undertaken.
Even if Pro-Synergy  had conducted that fact find, Im not satisfied that their advice to invest  
in the scheme  was suitable. Ill explain why.
attitude to risk
Pro-Synergy rely upon a risk profile  undertaken in July 2012, in which  Mr P was identified  as 
a balanced to aggressive  investor. No assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk has been 
provided from March/April 2012, the time at which the decision to invest was made.
Pro-Synergy accept that UCIS are generally  considered risky investments but they say this 
particular investment was less risky as it was asset backed and theyd received an 
assurance from a third party that there  was no need to be concerned about any successful 
HMRC challenges.  Within the suitability report they also say BPRAs are not widely 
considered to be considered high risk and go further to say, . . .  for a 50% taxpayer, the tax 
refund will usually cover the investors  initial deposit  (subject to normal conditions), and 
therefore, the investment risk element is greatly  reduced. 
BPRAs are non-mainstream, complex, illiquid,  specialised and speculative investments, 
where there  is a real risk of losing  the original investment. Ive seen that Pro-Synergys own 
due diligence  checks identified  that the directors/controllers of the scheme had limited 
experience. Yet despite this they concluded  that investors did not need specialist 
knowledge due to it being a fully managed investment. 
And Ive taken into account  that the risk of the tax rebate being clawed back  by HMRC  was 
heightened because  the investment was funded by a loan. As our investigator has 
explained, for an investor to be eligible for a tax rebate under the BPRA  scheme rules,  the 
money invested has to come from the assets  of the investor, linked loans are not permitted. 
Ive seen not anything to show  that Pro-Synergy identified  this potential problem and/or gave 
Mr P sufficient warning about the risk.
Taking all this into account, it is my view that the way in which the investment was held out 
was misleading. This fits well with Mr Ps belief that Pro-Synergy downplayed the risks,  he 
maintains that Pro-Synergy didnt properly  explain  the nature  of BPRA  or the risks to him.
And its consistent with the impression Mr P gained,  namely that the investment was 
low/medium risk. 
The suitability report is dated 5 April, after the decision to invest was made  on 3 April (when 
the majority of paperwork was signed).  So Im not satisfied that Mr P saw this before he 
invested. And whilst  there were  risks set out in the IM, this was a very lengthy  document.  As 
Mr P was receiving advice, it wasnt unreasonable for him to rely upon what he was told in 
the meetings.  I think Mr P has given a plausible account about this and Ive seen that the 
documents to progress  with the investments were  completed and signed  before the 
suitability report was dated, which suggested  he hadnt been given any further information to 
review before making a decision.
Pro-Synergy also place weight on the fact that Mr P had some  professional  qualifications. 
But Ive taken into account the timeline and Im mindful not to assess  Mr Ps state of 
knowledge as at 2012 with the benefit of hindsight. Theres  nothing  to show that Mr P had 
Ref: DRN15820995detailed knowledge  of this specialist type of investment at the time. Pro-Synergy also rely on 
the fact that Mr P did not mention at the time that he was confused  by the risk warnings. But 
as Ive said, I consider  it was reasonable for Mr P to rely upon what he was told. The 
obligation was on Pro-Synergy to provide suitable  advice.
Pro-Synergy place reliance on the IM and risks referred to in the suitability report.  But Im not 
satisfied that these risks were adequately  explained  to Mr P at the time, so I didnt think it 
was enough for Pro-Synergy to rely upon the declaration signed in the Subscription 
Agreement. 
On balance, Im not satisfied that this type of investment  was consistent with Mr Ps attitude  
to risk.
suitability
Pro-Synergy say Mr Ps focus was to reduce  his tax liability, so the investment 
recommendation was suitable as it gave him up to 50% income  tax relief. Further  Pro-
Synergy applied an affordability test, in which they relied upon Mr P saying the investment  
was affordable from his resources. In any event they rely upon the fact that the deposit was 
funded by a loan, which was repaid  when the tax rebate was received.  
Ive balanced  that against Mr Ps recollection. Hes adamant that he was told the investment 
was effectively free and recalls being  told it was a no brainer as the interest  free loan 
meant hed be able to invest immediately for nothing. Whilst Pro-Synergy claim it was 
pointed out to Mr P that tax relief  could not be guaranteed, they accept Mr P was advised 
that as a 50% taxpayer  the net cost to him would be effectively £0, based on the tax laws at 
that time.  Theyve consistently implied  that the risk to Mr P was lower  because the scheme 
was government backed and asset  backed. They promoted one of the key benefits of the 
scheme as being  the tax refund or rebate.
Mr P is clear that he was not advised of the risk that the scheme could be challenged or that 
HMRC could demand repayment of the tax relief already granted.  Pro-Synergy say they 
always point out that tax laws are subject to change and there are no guarantees about tax 
relief. I agree  theres  a generic line in the suitability report about this, but as Ive set out 
above, that report was drafted after the decision  to invest had been made. I dont think  Pro-
Synergy clearly highlighted the risk of the tax relief being clawed back.  
And I dont  agree that HMRC  changed the rules, rather  they clarified them in 2013 and Pro-
Synergy should  have been  aware of the tax risks given a Supreme Court case  in 2011. It 
was a relevant  factor  when  considering suitability because if the tax rebate wasnt  given or 
was clawed back, Pro-Synergy knew that Mr P would have to find the funds  to repay  the 
loan. Pro-Synergy should have been  aware of this, given they held themselves out as tax 
planning specialists  in the suitability  report.
Pro-Synergy agree  they were  aware that Mr Ps employment situation was going  to change 
within 3 months and appear  to have been aware that Mr Ps income levels could drop by 
50% in the near future. They maintain that Mr P was no worse  off as he did not use his own 
capital to fund the scheme. But this shows the flawed  approach  by Pro-Synergy. It was a 
relevant factor,  when considering suitability, that Mr Ps earnings were likely to reduce in the 
near future as this had direct impact  on whether  he would be able to afford to repay the loan, 
as it was always a possibility that the tax position  could  change.  This was directly relevant to 
his capacity for risk.
Ref: DRN15820996As Mr P was receiving  advice from Pro-Synergy, it was reasonable for him to rely upon  it, 
namely that investing in the BPRA was suitable for his circumstances,  objectives  and 
attitude to risk. For the reasons  given, Im not satisfied  that Mr P would have invested if hed 
understood the risks involved. 
Mr P has already had to pay £25, 453 back to HMRC and HMRC  have confirmed that theyll  
be clawing back 100% of the rebates given in this particular scheme  because  the underlying  
property was sold within a seven year period.
Ive noted Pro-Synergys  comments about  causation and the administration  of the scheme. 
To be clear, Im not making  a finding about the performance of the scheme itself, its my view 
that the investment was mis-sold to Mr P. Had a proper assessment of Mr Ps situation  been 
made and suitable  advice  been given as to the real risks involved, I dont think  he would 
have invested.  So its fair and reasonable to put him in the position as if the investment had 
not been made.
Ive noted reference to a group action but thats against other parties and relates  to the 
administrative failings.
putting things right
In order to put things  right, I considered how to put Mr P back  into the position hed have 
probably been in if he hadnt  been given unsuitable  advice
Ive considered very carefully Pro-Synergys and Mr Ps comments on how to put matters  
right for Mr P. Having  done so, Im not persuaded to change the investigators 
recommendations. I think what Ive outlined below  puts Mr P as far as possible back  in the 
position he wouldve  been in but for Pro-Synergys unsuitable advice. 
In particular, Im not persuaded that theres much Mr P can do, or couldve done at the time, 
to reasonably mitigate the losses hes faced and potentially  will face in the future. I dont 
agree that challenging HMRCs assessment of the BPRA scheme, or appealing its decision 
to clawback the tax relief  (and/or apply penalties)  is something an ordinary consumer should  
be expected to do. Given the specific circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  its reasonable 
for him to accept the validity of HMRCs  demands and pay what it tells him he needs to pay. 
I say this particularly  when considering that such a challenge would  likely  involve Mr P 
incurring further  professional costs   and with no real indication  of whether he would be 
successful or not. 
I also understand why Pro-Synergy thinks that our award of 8% interest on the relief Mr P 
has had to pay back to HMRC is too high. I appreciate that deposit rates are significantly 
lower than this. But it is not meant to reflect the return  Mr P would  have received from a 
deposit account. It is meant to compensate Mr P for being deprived  of his money for a period 
of time. It isnt really  possible  to quantify what this has meant for Mr P, our service  uses  the 
8% per year simple  rate in the majority of similar cases. Ive considered whether a different  
approach would be fair here, and Im not persuaded it would be.
I havent seen  that Mr P paid separately for the advice  he received, so it isnt fair to ask for a 
fee to be refunded. 
In order to put things  right for Mr P, Pro-Synergy must:
Ref: DRN15820997 A. Pay Mr P £25, 463 and add 8% per year simple interest from the date of payment to 
HMRC to the date of settlement.  
B. Pay him the £18, 423.70 which HMRC has confirmed he will have to pay (as it is clawing 
back the full amount he claimed in tax relief in 2012).
C. Pay any interest or charges which Mr P has paid to HMRC, and add 8% per year simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement. 
D. Pay any future amounts of interest and charges which  HMRC say are required after the 
date of settlement,  although interest would  not be payable on those amounts. Pro-Synergy 
must give an undertaking to pay those amounts within 28 days of being presented with proof 
of the amounts being charged. 
And Mr P must undertake  to withdraw  from the group action against the management 
company. Alternatively,  he must undertake to refund Pro-Synergy for any payments he 
receives up to £43,886.70.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding Mr Ps complaint. Pro-Synergy Wealth  & Tax 
Management Ltd must pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1582099