K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that National Westminster Bank PLC added  a Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against his name. He says this had led to him having  his 
bank account  closed. And he wants  NatWest  to remove his CIFAS  marker. 
background
Mr T opened an account with NatWest  in 2014.  
On the 30 July 2018 one payment  of £2,300 was made into Mr Ts account. 
On the 31 July 2018 NatWest received notification from another Bank,  Ill call C, who said 
their customer didnt  authorise the payment  to Mr Ts account. Before NatWest could retrieve  
the funds the majority of the money  was spent via ATM and point of sale transactions. Only 
£0.99 remained in Mr Ts account.  As a consequence NatWest  decided to close his account. 
NatWest also thought that Mr T had misused  his account so applied  a CIFAS marker. 
He complained to NatWest asking for the marker  to be removed.  Mr T initially told NatWest:
he has no knowledge of the deposit  of £2,300
he didnt authorise  any of the withdrawals or point of sale transactions after the 
deposit
he found out his account was closed two weeks later when he received a text 
message
he lost his card on the 11 July 2018 but didnt report it as he was very busy and uses 
his mobile phone to make payments  
he didnt write his PIN down or tell it to anyone
Mr T later appealed NatWests outcome and said hed previously disclosed his PIN to his 
friends and family  but he maintained he wasnt aware of the fraudulent  payment  and didnt 
carry out the transactions. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ts complaint and asked both Mr T and NatWest 
further questions. 
NatWest provided evidence that Mr Ts mobile banking was accessed around 30 minutes  
before and less than five minutes  after the fraudulent transfer. Also a payment of £10 was 
transferred out of Mr Ts account soon after the fraudulent transfer.  And the IP addresses 
used were the same as that for the get cash transactions before the fraudulent  credit. 
Mr T provided evidence that his account  number and sort code, PIN, online banking  details 
and passwords were  written in the notes  on his phone. And he thought this might  be how a 
fraudster got hold of his details. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint  having looked at the circumstances  of the 
events and the way in which the fraudulent payment was used  she thought that NatWest  had 
sufficient evidence to load the CIFAS marker.  
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators opinion and asked for his complaint  to be passed  to 
an ombudsman for a decision. 
Ref: DRN13802992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why below. 
NatWest said it applied  the CIFAS marker  because bank C said their customer  didnt 
authorise the payment made in Mr Ts account. So Ive looked at whether NatWest  was fair 
to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had and the investigation  it carried  out and 
what the rules say about applying such markers.  
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that NatWest needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other  relevant  law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases  of fraud, rather  than 
mere suspicion.  In addition, CIFAS guidance  set out businesses  are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.  
Having reviewed Mr Ts account of events  and the evidence NatWest have provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest have sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded  on his 
file. In coming to this view Ive taken into account  the following reasons:
NatWest have provided evidence to show the inward payment received on the 
30 July 2018 was fraudulent.
Mr T says he lost his card on the 11 July 2018 but he didnt inform NatWest  until after 
being notified of the account closure.
I think its unlikely that a fraudster would obtain  Mr Ts card on the 11 July 2018,  but 
wait until the 30 July 2018 before using the card and transferring fraudulent  funds in.
Mr Ts shown his account number, PIN and online banking details/password were  
saved on his phone. For a fraudster  to gain access to this theyd have needed to 
obtain Mr Ts phone,  been aware  the details were  stored on his phone and where, 
and either used his fingerprint or password to access  it. I dont find this explanation 
likely.
There were  a number of mobile banking log ins  from Mr Ts device  immediately  
prior to and after the fraudulent funds  were transferred in.
Mr T has explained  that if CCTV of the ATM withdrawals was obtained  it would show he 
didnt make them. And it would prove he wasnt aware of the fraudulent activity.  Im afraid  I 
cant agree  with Mr T here. Its possible that CCTV might have identified that someone other 
than Mr T made the withdrawals. But Mr T didnt have the make the withdrawals personally. 
And I dont  think its plausible that a fraudster obtained Mr Ts personal details without his 
knowledge. 
Taking everything into account,  I find that NatWest have met the burden of proof  required by 
CIFAS to add the marker.  So Im not going  to ask them to remove the CIFAS marker. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Ref: DRN13802993Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1380299