K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited  (Amtrust) have poorly  handled a claim he 
made under a buildings  warranty.
background 
A lot has happened during the life of Mr Js claim. To be clear,  this background isnt intended 
to set out every event  in detail. Instead Ive given a summarised timeline  of events,  and of 
whats happened since he brought his complaint  to our service.
In 2017 Mr J claimed under his building warranty for damage to his roof. Upon receipt of an 
estimate from Mr J, Amtrust agreed  to pay the costs  of fitting new vent tiles in the roof and 
loft insulation. Mr J provided  the estimate and instructed Company A to carry out the works.
Sometime after completion, in early  2018  Mr J contacted Amtrust again as hed noticed  the 
damage to his roof had returned.  Amtrust  reviewed  Company As previous repairs and said 
these were insufficient, finding two vents had been fitted incorrectly  alongside finding fire 
stopping was absent to the top of the party wall.
Amtrust said it would  cover the costs of new vents  to be fitted, but not for the cost of the 
related scaffolding or fixing the previously poorly  fitted vents.
 
Mr J said Amtrust had failed to provide a recommendation on how many vents should be 
installed, its proposed  solution to seal the fire stopping gap wasnt sufficient, and overall  it 
hadnt provided a fair settlement to his claim. Mr J also questioned the qualifications of 
Amtrusts contractors as they werent members  of the National Federation  for Roofing 
Contractors (NFRC).
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. She said while  cost estimates  had been 
provided by both parties, these differed in scope and werent informed by Amtrusts 
knowledge of how many vents would be necessary to resolve  the issue. So she asked 
Amtrust to re-evaluate the issue and provide an updated schedule  based on what it believes 
will fix the problem. The investigator also found no issues with Amtrusts  selected contractors 
not being members  of NFRC.
The investigator said Amtrust should  then either  offer its own contractors to complete the 
repairs or offer a cash  settlement  to Mr J to the same value.  She said this work should  also 
include the associated  costs of erecting any scaffolding.
The investigator considered that Mr J had provided an architects report outlining a proposed 
solution to fix the fire break. She said while the architect and Amtrust had reached  different 
conclusions on the method,  there  wasnt anything to suggest Amtrusts method wouldnt 
work or was incorrect.
The investigator considered Mr Js comments that Amtrust should  repair  the neighbours 
property as this would fully resolve  his issue. But she said this wasnt  necessary under the 
policy nor did she think a shared wall of this nature  would be considered a common part. 
But the investigator did think Amtrust caused a number of delays  across  the life of the claim, 
and it put an unfair level of responsibility on Mr J to arrange technical and specialist works. 
Ref: DRN14365322So she said Amtrust should award  Mr J £1,200 to compensate him for the additional trouble 
and upset hed experienced  as a result  of Amtrusts  actions.
Amtrust agreed, but Mr J didnt. He made  a number  of specific  requests he wanted the 
investigator to include  within  her recommendation. Ive detailed some  of these below.
This included not using  Amtrusts preferred contractors, awarding  Mr J an additional £10,000  
on top of the investigators suggested  award, an ongoing payment of £1,000  per month  if the 
claim wasnt resolved within three  months,  Amtrust to contact Mr Js neighbours and make  
them aware of the claim, alternative accommodation  for Mr Js family  while  certain works 
were being  completed, and Amtrust to fund the costs of Mr J seeking  a second opinion  from 
a relevant expert should there be a technical  dispute  on any matter  and for this opinion to 
take precedence over Amtrusts.
Mr J felt the assessment  didnt cover his concerns about fire safety, and he said the 
technical evidence  was clear in detailing  the correct solution in relation the fire stop. He also 
said Amtrusts  contractors had made data protection failings previously which impacts his 
faith in them.  And he said the investigator  hadnt  considered his concerns about a faulty loft 
door and incorrect plasterboard being used.
Following this Amtrust agreed  to instruct a chartered surveyor  to design a solution for the 
existing problems, including the vent tiles and the fire stop. Amtrust also agreed  to appoint a 
builder that was a member of the NFRC.  This was put to Mr J but he disagreed, reiterating 
his architect had already given an expert opinion on the method of repair.  And he said he 
wouldnt allow any attempt to complete repairs unless it was from both sides  of the roof.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint. She said Mr J had asked for a suitably qualified 
person to lead the claim going  forward, and for the builders or roofers to be members of the 
NFRC  both requests  it had now met which  she thought  was fair. The investigator  said 
Amtrust should give Mr J notice of works before going ahead, and allow  him to provide his 
comments, but highlighted that Amtrust  wasnt obliged to follow  his instruction in the event of 
a disagreement.
The investigator also said she wouldnt necessarily  expect Amtrust to pay for independent 
experts in the event  of a disagreement, and this would be decided on its own merits. She 
went on to say Amtrust didnt have  to pay the cost of the architects  report  as it hadnt  
impacted the progression  of the claim or contradicted anything Amtrust  had put forward.
The investigator reiterated her position  that because of the dispute regarding  the method of 
resolving the fire stop issue, this should  be reviewed by the new chartered surveyor.  And 
she said shed considered Mr Js list of items that should be included  within  the claim, and 
asked Amtrust to consider these once it receives its chartered surveyors  report  in line with 
the policy terms. She found the loft hatch  and plasterboard, while  faulty, wasnt  covered 
under the terms  of the warranty so didnt  ask Amtrust to cover it.
The investigator reconsidered Mr Js points about  compensation  and said she wouldnt look 
to compensate him for potential future  delays. And was satisfied £1,200 was a fair sum to 
recognise the emotional and practical impact  Amtrusts mistakes  had on him. 
Ref: DRN14365323Mr J disagreed. He said the plasterboard  and loft door were breaches of building regulation 
so should be covered.  And he provided  further  comments from his architect that he said 
supported that the fire stop works needed to be carried  out on both sides  of the roof. The 
investigator considered  the comments but they didnt change  her mind.  So the complaint has 
come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what  I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take 
into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
Having done so Im upholding  this complaint. As this decision covers  a number of issues,  
Ive explained  my reasoning for each  area below.
selection of contractors and builders
Mr J requested Amtrust nominate  a specific qualified individual  to lead the claim going  
forward. For the reasons  our investigator has previously given, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable that this chartered  surveyor was selected  to take the claim forward. 
Mr Js policy  says Amtrust  has the option of either  paying the cost of repairing, replacing or 
rectifying any defect, or it can arrange to have such damage corrected itself. This means this 
is ultimately Amtrusts decision on how to proceed.
Once this schedule of works has been completed, I understand Amtrust has said it will 
arrange for the works to be completed. Mr J had requested that any builders or roofers used  
would be a member  of the NFRC. Amtrust has agreed to this request so I dont need to 
consider it any further. However if Mr J declines Amtrusts offer of its contractors completing 
the work,  Id expect  it to provide him a cash settlement to the value of the required works.
vent tiles and scaffolding
Company A initially carried  out repairs to Mr Js home on his instruction. Its not disputed that 
it didnt resolve the problem, and fitted two vents incorrectly. Amtrust  has now agreed to 
carry out further works to fix the problem  following its chartered surveyors inspection   
including fitting  more vents.  But it has said it wont pay for the cost of replacing  the 
incorrectly fitted vents. 
Ref: DRN14365324Given Amtrust  didnt instruct Company A I wouldnt expect it to take responsibility  for its 
work. Should  Mr J remain unhappy  about  the two vents, I see no reason  why hed be unable  
to take this up with Company A directly. Amtrust previously said it wouldnt  cover the cost of 
the related scaffolding but it has since agreed to do this following  our investigators view. So 
I dont need to consider this any further.
plasterboard and loft door
Mr Js policy  says Amtrust  will cover:
The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which has 
been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability  of the Underwriter does  
not exceed the reasonable  cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification; 
Within the policy definition of Major Damage, it says the damage must be: 
caused  by a defect  in the design, workmanship, materials or components  of:
the Structure;  or
the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope
Amtrust said both the plasterboard used on the ceiling and the seal for the loft hatch  were  
not part of either the structure or the waterproof envelope, so it declined  the claim.  I dont 
doubt what Mr J has said about  there  being  issues with both the plasterboard and hatch. But 
I have to consider  what is covered by the policy, and these issues  arent covered for the 
reasons Amtrust has given. So Im satisfied Amtrust declined this aspect of the claim fairly 
and Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further.  
Mr J since said Amtrust  should cover these issues under section 3.5 of his policy, additional  
cover for approved inspector building control  function.  He says he believes, if asked, the 
local council  Approved Inspector Building Control Function would say the plasterboard and 
hatch fail to meet the relevant regulations. However,  Ive been given no expert evidence to 
support this. So it doesnt change my mind.
fire stopping  and solutions
Within Mr Js roof he has a gap between  his home  and his neighbours at the top of the party  
wall. Its not in dispute that this needs to be sealed and this work is covered  by the policy. 
What is in dispute is how to repair this.
Mr Js architect  put forward a proposal on how to fix this problem, saying it would  be 
possible to seal this gap with mortar  perhaps tile slips, but access  to both sides  would be 
essential to avoid interstitial condensation  occurring. This would complete the fire break  
needed and prevent cross ventilation between the two spaces. There are also a number of 
fire foam sealants on the market which could also solve the problem.
Amtrusts contractors instead  recommended fitting  a fire sock that will fit 100mm width 
wall to fill a 35 mm gap between the ply / OSB board of the warm deck roof. The wall is a 
cavity constructed  wall, we cannot  access the whole of the cavity wall because  of the 
ply/OSB board of the warm deck roof.
Ref: DRN14365325Put simply, Amtrusts proposed solution doesnt require it to have access to both Mr J and 
his neighbours property.  Our investigator  said she didnt  believe these opinions directly 
conflicted and instead were a difference in approach. But she invited  Mr J to provide  
anything further  for us to consider to support his concerns.
Mr J wrote to his architect asking for his opinion,  explaining what Amtrusts proposed  
method. Ive included some of his comments below:
I absolutely agree with the installation of a fire sock on your leaf of the party  wall only 
from the point of view of fire protection. Unfortunately,  this would not stop warm wet air from 
entering the cavity  from your neighbours side and condensing on the inner face of your wall 
within the cavity,  causing  pin mould or damp around the ceilings internally. It was this risk of 
condensation I was trying to prevent. Condensation  would  be likely because  your root is 
ventilated and cold, not warm and wet unventilated like next door, therefore your inner leaf of 
the cavity wall is at risk if both leafs of the wall are not sealed to the roof
Mr J then went back to clarify further with the architect, who said:
In the circumstances  I have seen, I would be more worried about condensate running  down  
in the cavity, sitting on top of the wall insulation beneath and soaking through the sides  of 
the party wall. Please understand me, I was speculating  on the worst case scenario when 
we met, because there was no condensate to be seen when I was there.  It would need  to be 
extreme conditions at the time to generate  this extent  of a problem.. [my emphasis]
This suggests to me that Mr Js architect wasnt concerned about Amtrusts  method from a 
fire safety  perspective  and agreed  with the use of a fire sock. Given the wording hes used, it 
seems to me that his difference in opinion  is based  on him taking a more  cautionary 
approach to avoid  something happening in a worst  case scenario. I also note he hasnt 
outright said he disagrees with Amtrusts  proposed methods. 
Amtrust has said its surveyor  believes  the increased  ventilation, from installing additional 
inline vents,  should allow the eaves and high-level ventilation  to function as intended.  Ive 
considered all of this carefully, and having  done  so Im satisfied Amtrust has acted fairly and 
reasonably by relying on its experts when designing  a solution to this problem.
Amtrust has also said it will reconsider its position based on the findings  of its chartered 
surveyor once theyre  able to visit Mr Js property. I think  this is fair and hopefully this opinion 
will put a conclusion to this matter.
Mr J has stressed  that he believes the only correct  way of completing  a repair would be to 
carry out works on his neighbours side of the property. But for the reasons above Im not 
persuaded this is the case. And I also want to be clear, Im not able to direct Amtrust to 
complete works for his neighbour as Im considering Mr Js complaint about  his policy  and 
claim, not his neighbours.
Mr J has asked for Amtrust to cover the costs  of his architect. But as our investigator has 
outlined, it doesnt  seem their involvement  led to any further progression of this claim or 
changed or influenced its outcome. So Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to 
ask Amtrust to cover these costs.
Ref: DRN14365326impact and compensation
ICOBS 8.1.1 outlines that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In this case  
Amtrust has accepted that its actions led to serious  delays in progression of Mr Js claim. 
Our investigator has detailed the timeline of events leading to these delays previously  as 
well as mistakes  in its handling. As I agree  with her comments and Amtrust  has accepted 
her findings,  I see no benefit for either party  in me repeating  the history  of the claim. So Ive 
gone on to consider the impact these  delays have had on Mr J.
Mr J has outlined the stress this has had on him and his family. And hes explained  in detail 
the strains this has placed on relationships  and his mental wellbeing during this time. 
Im very sympathetic to Mr J, its clear to me that Amtrusts handling of the claim in places 
was neither prompt nor fair. And in turn these mistakes caused  him frustration and distress 
during the life of the claim  beyond what would be expected of a claim of this nature. 
Having considered everything  Im satisfied £1,200 is a fair and reasonable  sum of 
compensation for whats happened.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and Amtrust  Europe Limited must pay Mr J £1,200 in compensation 
(if it hasnt done so already).
Amtrust Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr J accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1436532