K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about British Gas Insurance Limited. Hes unhappy with their handling of a 
claim he made under his HomeCare policy following an escape of water.
background 
Mr D contacted British  Gas about a water leak coming from his bathroom. An engineer 
visited the property  on 20 August  2018  and found  a leak coming  from the bath waste and so 
replaced it. Another engineer visited the property  the next day as Mr D reported that there 
was still a water leak. The engineer  investigated  the area but found no leak.
Mr D contacted British  Gas about the issue again as he said the water leak was still ongoing. 
An engineer  visited  Mr Ds property  on 23 August  2018 and found  another  leak coming  from 
the pipework to the toilet. He made access under the bath to complete the repair.
Mr D contacted British  Gas again  on 28 August 2018 saying there  was still an active water 
leak from his bathroom. The engineer  who visited Mr Ds property the next day found a 
further leak coming from the toilet cistern and he replaced the float valve.
During this time Mr D complained about the service hed received and the handling of his 
claim. He was unhappy with delays carrying out the repairs as the water had caused 
damage to his bathroom flooring and his kitchen ceiling below. He was also unhappy  that an 
engineer had damaged his bathroom  fittings.  He also said that due to the delay  in carrying 
out the repairs, his family had to move  out of the property. 
British Gas didnt  think they were  liable for the water damage  caused to the property. They  
said the three leaks were  not as a result  of poor workmanship  by their engineers. They 
accepted that their engineer did damage the sink though and offered £410 as a cash 
settlement. They also acknowledged service failings  in respect of cancelled  appointments 
and not turning up to complete the work. So they offered £220 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused.
The complaint was brought to our service. An investigator looked  in to the matter but she 
didnt think British Gas had to do anything further. She explained that under the terms of the 
policy British Gas only has to make good  anything it damaged in order  to gain access to the 
leaks. And so while Mr D wants  them  to repair damage to his property caused by the escape 
of water,  and which he also considers was as a result of the engineers poor workmanship, 
British Gas has said that Mr D reported  water  damage prior to any engineer involvement. So 
she didnt think it was reasonable  to hold British Gas responsible for any existing  damage  to 
the property.
The investigator also didnt think British Gas had caused any undue  delays  in locating the 
leaks. She thought  that when one leak is located and fixed, it is reasonable to assume the 
problem is resolved. And so she didnt think British Gas was obliged  to access the entire 
plumbing system to see if there were further leaks. She acknowledged  the misfortune in 
Mr Ds case that there were several  leaks from different areas of the bathroom but she didnt  
think British Gas were responsible for the water damage.
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
Ref: DRN10618992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say that I appreciate why Mr D is unhappy with whats  happened. The water 
leaks have damaged his property and I dont underestimate the impact this has had on him 
and his family. But what Ive considered is whether British Gas is responsible for the damage 
and if, under the terms of the policy, theyre required to carry out the repairs.  I realise this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr D but I dont think they are and Ill explain why.
Mr Ds policy  has the following exclusion:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example,  damage caused by water leaks.
The damage to Mr Ds property caused by the water leaks  includes the bathroom flooring 
and kitchen ceiling.  I understand  Mr D thinks British  Gas is responsible  for the damage as it 
was as a result of poor workmanship and delays in repair. Ive carefully  considered this but 
other than the damage to the kitchen sink  which British Has accepted  liability for  Ive not 
seen anything to support  this. 
Ive also taken in to account that when Mr D first contacted  British  Gas about the water leak 
he said that it was coming  through his kitchen ceiling. I therefore  thinks  its most likely  that 
the water  damage  was caused prior to British Gas engineers involvement. And although I 
appreciate it took several engineer visits to source  and repair  the three leaks, I dont think 
this was unreasonable in the circumstances. The leaks  came  from different areas  of the 
bathroom and I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to assume the problem is 
resolved when one of them is fixed.  I therefore dont  think the cause of the water damage to 
Mr Ds property is due to the time taken to fix the leaks, as I think  it was already pre-existing  
and so not a result of any delays on British Gas part. 
British Gas has accepted their engineer  damaged Mr Ds bathroom sink and theyve  offered  
£410 as a cash settlement. I think this is a fair offer and so I wont  be asking British Gas to 
increase this further.
The policy does however provide cover for repairing damage caused by British Gas in 
getting access to the boiler, appliance  or system - including, where required, leaving a level 
surface. In Mr Ds case Im aware  the engineer who visited Mr Ds property on 23 August 
2018 had to obtain access  under the bath. And that structural plywood was fitted underneath 
to leave a level service under the bath following the repair. Im therefore  satisfied  that British  
Gas has acted in line with the terms of the policy in this respect as well.
I understand Mr D has since told our service that there is still a water leak coming from his 
bathroom. British  Gas has tried to call Mr D to arrange a further engineer  visit but werent 
able to speak  with him. If Mr D would  like this to be looked in to further  he should contact 
British Gas directly to arrange  this.
Mr D has also complained  about  the service  hes received from British  Gas. This includes 
missed engineer appointments and the cost of telephone  calls hes made to them about the 
Ref: DRN10618993matter. British Gas has offered £220 to Mr D for this and while I appreciate  he might not feel 
this is enough,  I think its a fair amount  to recognise the trouble and upset  this matter has 
caused him. Im therefore not increasing  it any further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think British Gas Insurance Limiteds offer of £410 for 
the bathroom sink and the £220  compensation  for trouble and upset is fair. And so  if it 
hasnt already been  I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to arrange payment  of this to 
Mr D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1061899