K820x#14complaint
Mr B, through his representatives,  complains about  the advice he was given by Fairway 
Financial Consultancy in relation to transferring his personal pension into a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  
Mr Bs intention  was to invest these funds  into overseas property with Harlequin Property 
(Harlequin) which is an unregulated investment. He says Fairway didnt assess the suitability 
and risks of this investment. Mr B wants to be compensated  for his financial losses that he 
incurred due to his failing investment.
background 
Fairway told us that they were introduced to Mr B by a sales agent for Harlequin  in July 
2011. They  were  asked to help a limited number of clients establish a SIPP to buy Harlequin 
properties using  their pensions. The Harlequin  agent was acting from a Limited  Liability 
Partnership (LLP). There were two individuals who were involved in the sale of the Harlequin 
property, Mr D and Mr N. 
Mr B and his wife Mrs B were introduced to Mr N by a friend. Mr and Mrs B originally both 
wanted to invest  their respective pensions, however only Mr B eventually  proceeded. 
Although this complaint is only relating to Mr B, I consider the evidence received from 
Fairway about Mrs B and what Mrs B herself has told us during our investigation relevant to 
this complaint.
In June 2011 Mr B told his personal  pension provider of his plans to transfer  his pension and 
had signed the relevant instructions to transfer (the details  of the receiving pension scheme 
werent yet completed).  On 1 July 2011  he sent his provider a letter  asking them to share 
any information on his plan with Fairway upon  their request.
On 20 July 2011 Mr B signed a range of documents. I understand that Mr B completed  them  
with Mr N and/or Mr D. 
This included a confidential financial review  which recorded that Mr B:
was aged  41 and intended to retire at age 66;
was employed with a salary of around  £26,000
together with Mrs B had a joint net monthly income of £3,050,  with £1,400  of 
committed outgoings and £1,600  of discretionary outgoings, leaving them with a 
monthly disposable income of £50
had a home valued at £165,000  with an outstanding mortgage of £110,000.
had a loan of £10,000 and credit card debts  of £800 
had no savings, investments or other pensions (other than the personal pension he 
wanted to transfer)
A SIPP application form was also completed. This recorded that:
around £31,700 was to be transferred  into the SIPP from an existing personal 
pension
Fairway was the financial  adviser
the introducer was Mr D 
the SIPP was to be used to buy a Harlequin  property
Ref: DRN17844592An Appropriateness Test for Harlequin was completed. This confirmed that Mr B:
had not received advice about Harlequin and was an execution only customer; 
had decided to invest based on information from the investment provider;
was comfortable  with the risks involved with the investment; that there  was no 
guarantee higher risks would lead to higher rewards and that he might get less back  
than he invested
understood the investment might  be difficult to sell which  could affect taking benefits 
in retirement
understood he was not covered by the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS), or this Service;
had read and understood the terms and conditions of the investment.
Fairway say they were asked to establish the SIPP on an execution  only basis  and were 
offered a flat fee of £1,000 to do this. They say they didnt receive any commission  from the 
Harlequin investments  and they didnt recommend this investment to Mr B. They  say in the 
interest of the customer, they decided  to not only provide  an execution-only service but 
advise on the transfer of pension benefits to a SIPP.
Fairway wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 26 July 2011. Fairway says this was the first time they 
dealt with the couple. The letter explained that they had received documentation from Mr D 
about Mr Bs request  to establish a SIPP, but that they would need to request information  
from his pension provider  first. They understood that the funds were  to be invested in an 
overseas property development. They stressed that they were unable to provide any advice 
about that transaction. They said our advice  will be limited to the specific issue of whether 
establishment of a SIPP and a transfer of benefits  to such a scheme  for investment is 
appropriate to meet your investment objectives.  Mrs B wanted to opt-out of her employers  
defined benefit  (DB) scheme. Fairway  told her it would be extremely  unlikely they would 
recommend such a transfer.
On 2 September 2011 Fairway wrote to the couple  again and said they couldnt provide 
specific advice in relation to the proposed investment in Harlequin, however they suggested  
that investing in one particular investment of this nature should  be classed as a high risk 
investment approach. 
They explained that Mr Bs personal pension was a medium risk investment. Fairway said 
they would  class the Harlequin investment as highly speculative and Mr B should  be aware 
that there  was the potential to lose his entire  investment within his pension in the worst  case 
scenario. They said other  options would be to stay in his personal pension  or move to 
another personal pension provider, however these options wouldnt allow Mr Bs investment 
plans. Although the SIPP was significantly more expensive than his existing pension,  
Fairway was happy to recommend  Guardian  as the provider of the SIPP  as it could facilitate 
Mr Bs objectives. Fairway  pointed out that Mr B would be significantly increasing  the 
investment risk nature of this element  of his savings and that he shouldnt proceed unless he 
was prepared to take a speculative investment  approach with his pension.  Fairway informed 
Mr B they had forwarded his documents to Guardian to open  the SIPP, but that there was a 
30 day cooling off period if Mr B decided  not to proceed.
Fairway explained they werent in a position  to advise Mrs B on an opt-out  of her DB scheme 
as it wasnt possible to quantify potential losses. However, once Mrs B had resigned from 
her employer Fairway could reassess this.
Ref: DRN17844593Fairway also pointed to an Attitude to Risk document which  they enclosed  with the letter  and 
which they said highlighted  a number of issues with the investment Mr B should consider 
before committing his pension to the Harlequin  investment. 
Page 1 and 2 of the document seems to have been previously completed with Mr B on 20 
July 2011 (before he was introduced to Fairway).  It showed Mr B as a customer with the 
highest risk profile  and noted Mr B:
could afford to lose a large proportion of money without his security  being affected
was prepared to accept a very high degree  of risk
his earning capacity is such that he could absorb this risk
was prepared to invest  for the long term and didnt require access  to his money in the 
medium to long term 
accepted the risk of losing most or all of his money
It said: 
We agreed you have  this investment risk profile  because (by reference to financial security, 
understanding and experience): 
You understand that by investing your entire fund within  one specific investment sector and 
gearing the advance to include a significant  proportion of borrowing you are taking a 
relatively high risk / high possible  reward investment stance.
Risks involved include the risk that demand  for this type of rental accommodation may fall 
due to factors such as economic recession, geographical influences, exchange rate 
fluctuation and the nature of the loan facility  agreed and terms and conditions of the advance  
as well as Political risk.
Page 3 included  some  additional guidance from Fairway on their analysis of the investment 
prospects of Harlequin  which  Mr B was recommended to consider in detail before 
completing his purchase of the property. It said (amongst other things):
Fairways  enquiries had established that it was a legal  and legitimate investment  for a 
SIPP. But this did not guarantee  it was suitable  or that it would achieve positive 
returns.
On the basis that Mr B understood the specialist nature of the Harlequin investment 
and the associated risks, Fairway was happy  to recommend the Guardian SIPP
Fairway referred  to projected investment returns being enticing  and showing  high 
quality hotels and resorts. The income  projected  through rental was in excess  of 10% 
a year and potential capital appreciation of over 20% a year.  They were unable to 
substantiate those  figures  and whilst  they appeared attractive, they recommended 
caution as they were  unable to verify those figures. The returns  were  by no means  
guaranteed.
Fairway said that they werent overseas property specialists and werent  in a position 
to confirm the potential investment returns.
Mr B was investing in redevelopment of an existing hotel which  could have the 
potential to open in a short timeframe, but Fairway recommended Mr B to check  with 
Harlequin that his funds would be used to complete his individual  unit as other  
properties that werent yet developed could be even more speculative
Fairway also warned  to be cautious with regards  to sales  information promising that 
funds could be returned to SIPP customers if required. They said they would 
Ref: DRN17844594question whether Harlequin  would hold enough  cash reserves  to be able to pay out 
significant funds  if there  was a demand
There were  a number of warnings given  in the document in bold letters:
As advised within the attached  letter  under the heading Attitude to Investment  
Risk you should  not proceed  with an investment  of this nature unless you are 
prepared to take a highly speculative investment  approach. This could result in 
the loss of part or all of your savings.
We would stress that overseas property investments, especially those in 
development do carry an additional investment  risk. As advisers  we are 
therefore obliged  to point out to you that your requested course of action will 
increase the risk to your  retirement savings and in a worse case scenario these  
savings could be lost. It is important you understand this prior to authorising 
your investment within the Harlequin proposition
However we would reaffirm  that if you have  any doubts about the nature of the 
Harlequin proposition  or any aspect  of the risks involved  you should not 
proceed.
This could result in any investment  being very illiquid i.e. your funds  being tied 
up and unavailable  for a significant time period.
We therefore only consider this form of investment suitable  for investors who 
understand the nature of the proposed investment, have received detailed  
information on the investment, understand  the potential benefits  and risks 
associated with the proposed investment and are prepared  to put at risk this 
element of their long  term savings
In our opinion  this specialist form of investment  is only suitable for investors 
who fully understand the nature of the investment, the potential rewards and 
risks associated with this specialist  form of investment and understand that 
this element of their total retirement  savings could be significantly reduced  in 
value or in extreme circumstances  entirely  lost.
If you feel that you cannot fulfil  all of these requirements ( this referred to the 
indicators of Mr Bs risk profile on page  1) then we cannot recommend 
establishment of the Self Invested  Personal Pension on your  behalf and would  
not be in a position  to proceed to act for you in establishment of this. If this is 
the case you should contact us at your earliest opportunity.
We therefore recommend that you do not proceed with this investment unless  
you fully understand  the nature of the proposed investment and are prepared 
to accept the potential risks involved.
Fairway provided call notes to show that they spoke  with Mrs B on 8 and 9 September 2011.  
The notes record the following:
Fairway wasnt  prepared to give advice on Mrs Bs DB benefits  as she was still employed. 
Mrs B said she felt it was unwise to resign.  Fairway pointed out that under normal  
circumstances transferring away from a DB scheme wasnt deemed to be a good idea and 
Ref: DRN17844595even if the investments in a different plan performed well they were  probably unlikely to 
generate the same  level of benefits as her DB scheme, so she would be taking a significant 
investment risk. 
Mrs B understood all this but still insisted she wanted to take this course of action. She 
offered to sign a disclaimer if this would help. Fairway explained that it wouldnt and that 
even she had left her employment  it was highly likely Fairway would recommend her to keep  
the benefits in the DB scheme. Mrs B didnt  seem happy. She advised she had resigned 
from the DB scheme and Fairway strongly  recommended she should  re-join  her scheme.  
Fairway stressed  the potential risks to Mr Bs pension savings and that neither her or Mr B 
should proceed with the Harlequin investment unless they fully understood the nature and 
risks of this investment. Mrs B assured Fairway that she and her husband understood the 
nature of the investment  and were insistent they wanted to proceed.  Fairway noted  that it 
they felt it was worth writing to the couple  again to reaffirm their position with regard to 
Mrs Bs DB scheme and the investment nature of the Harlequin investment.
The next day Ms B phoned back to advise she had resigned from her employer and asked 
whether Fairway would now be able to help with the transfer. Fairway said they could  now 
assess the value  of her pension  benefits  and make  a formal recommendation but it would be 
likely they would recommend her not to proceed  with the transfer  as she would be giving up 
guaranteed benefits in favour of a speculative investment.
Following the phone call Mrs B sent Fairway  a copy of her resignation letter to her employer 
dated 12 September and asked them to provide her with the necessary  advice  for the 
transfer of her pension.
On 16 September  Fairway wrote to Mr and Mrs B again. They  reiterated  that they it would be 
unlikely for them to recommend Mrs B to transfer (they hadnt given any formal  advice  at this 
stage but had merely  given her free guidance). They offered to give her a formal  
recommendation if she wanted Fairway to consider this in detail, but they would then have to 
charge and as indicated  it would unlikely result in a recommendation  to transfer from the DB 
scheme. Mrs B didnt proceed  further.
Fairway explained that compared to his wifes  more  secure DB scheme, Mr Bs existing 
personal pension  already  contained some investment risk. They  stressed the Harlequin 
investment was higher risk than his existing pension, but as Mr B had confirmed he was 
happy to take a high risk approach and understood this could result in the loss of part or all 
his pension savings,  they felt they could assist him with establishing the SIPP.  They 
emphasized several  times in the letter that they would  only recommend the SIPP  for Mr B if 
he understood the nature and risks of the Harlequin  investment.  They said if Mr B had 
doubts or thought this wasnt suitable for him he should not proceed.
One of our adjudicators thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Fairway should  
have advised  Mr B that the Harlequin  investment  was unsuitable for him and consequently 
shouldnt have recommended the SIPP. They should have refused to assist  just like they did 
with Mrs B. He said if Fairway had done  so, Mr B wouldnt  have  proceeded with the 
investment and therefore wouldnt  have  incurred his investment losses.  The adjudicator  
recommended Fairway  to compensate Mr B for these  losses.
Fairway provided very detailed submissions which Im not going to repeat in detail. However, 
in essence they said they made Mr B fully aware of the risks he was intending to take and 
that they didnt  recommend him to proceed if he had any doubts or concerns about the 
investment and wasnt prepared to risk losing his entire funds. They  say Mr B proceeded as 
an insistent client and so they shouldnt be held responsible for his losses.  Mr B didnt have 
Ref: DRN17844596an established relationship with Fairway.  However,  he was introduced to Harlequin by a 
friend who received  commission so its likely  she would have done her best to persuade 
Mr B that the investment  was a good  idea.  By the time Mr and Mrs B were introduced to 
Fairway they had already  made the decision to invest and the communications  with Mrs B 
show she was prepared  to take extreme measures like resigning  from her job in order to be 
able to invest. The eventual decision where  to invest-subject to them  being in a fully 
informed position-should lie with the customer.
Fairway say Mr B would have invested  into Harlequin in any event and so they shouldnt be 
held responsible for his losses. 
The complaint was referred  for an ombudsmans decision.
provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  Mr Bs complaint. I said the Harlequin  
investment was unsuitable for Mr B and Fairway  shouldnt have recommended the SIPP.  
However, I thought  he would have invested into Harlequin even if Fairway had given  him 
suitable advice  and therefore  he would  have incurred  the same  losses.  I repeat my detailed 
findings below.
was the transfer  into a SIPP suitable  for Mr B?
The simple  answer is no. The SIPP was only needed to facilitate the investment into 
Harlequin as this wouldnt have been possible within  Mr Bs personal pension plan. The 
investment into unregulated overseas  property  is a high risk and specialist investment which  
would only be suitable for the most  experienced investors. Mr B had one personal pension 
valued at around  £31,700  which  was invested in a balanced managed fund. He had no other  
investments, so I think its fair to say he wasnt a particularly experienced investor. 
Ref: DRN17844597Mr B wanted  to invest all his retirement provisions into Harlequin. And he had no other 
savings. He still had about 15 years to go until his planned retirement, so he had enough 
time to make  up some potential losses and its likely he wanted to take some risk with his 
pension, something  he did in his existing pension.  
However, the Harlequin investment was much higher risk than this and based on his 
circumstances he simply didnt have  the capacity to take such a high risk (even if he wanted 
to take this much risk). Losing  all his funds would have sincerely affected his financial 
security in retirement. So I think the investment  was unsuitable for him and consequently so 
was the SIPP.
what were Fairways responsibilities
Fairway recommended  the SIPP to Mr B and as part of that they needed to consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments. The regulators view on this is clear.  In 2013 it 
issued an alert about advice on pension transfers  with the view to invest in unregulated 
investment through a SIPP. It said:
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment 
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer  into the SIPP.  If, 
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable.
Im aware that Fairway gave the advice in 2011,  so before this alert was published. 
However, this alert didnt  mark  a change in regulations. It was essentially a confirmation of 
how financial  advisers should act. 
Fairway originally told Mr B they wouldnt give any advice on the underlying investment. 
However, after speaking  to their compliance  team Fairway said they realised  that they had to 
include more information about the nature  of the Harlequin investment and gave Mr B new 
guidance.
Ive considered the letters and the call notes provided and I think  Fairway made  it very clear 
that Mr Bs intended investment was high risk and that he could lose all his money.  However, 
essentially Fairway  left the decision whether the investment was suitable to 
Mr B. In their amended risk profile  document they said:
Each investor should consider the appropriateness  of this investment based  upon their own 
individual circumstances  and their investment objectives
On the basis that you understand  the specialist nature  of the Harlequin  investment and 
importantly the associated risk of investing  your savings within  this investment and in view of 
your objective of securing the potential  for high investment  retums,  we are happy  to 
Ref: DRN17844598recommend establishment of a Guardian  Self Invested Personal  Pension to allow you to 
complete your requested investment.
In our opinion this specialist form of investment is only suitable for investors  who fully 
understand the nature of the investment, the potential rewards and risks associated  with this 
specialist form of investment and understand that this element of their total retirement  
savings could be significantly  reduced  in value or in extreme circumstances entirely lost.
We therefore recommend  that you do not proceed with this investment unless you fully 
understand the nature of the proposed investment and are prepared to accept  the potential  
risks involved.
I appreciate Fairway say they werent  an expert  on overseas  investment and so they feel 
they couldnt give specialised advice. However,  in order to give advice on transferring a 
pension into a SIPP they also had to advise  on the suitability on the investment. If they 
thought they couldnt  do this for lack of information/expertise they shouldnt  have advised at 
all. However, if they did proceed to advise (and in this case  I think  they had sufficient 
information about Mr Bs circumstances and the general nature of the investment to assess 
whether this kind of investment was suitable), they shouldve clearly recommended  for or 
against the transfer instead of recommending the transfer into the SIPP  but only giving 
information on the underlying investment.
Fairway qualified their recommendation and I dont  think that was good  enough.  It wasnt 
sufficient to give Mr B all the information  to allow him to make  an informed choice about 
whether this was suitable for his circumstances. 
In 2011, The Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS)  said under 9.2.1R: a firm must take 
reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation is suitable for its client. And COBS  
9.2.2R said it was necessary for a firm.to have a reasonable basis  for believing that the 
transaction to be recommended
(a)meets his investment objectives
(b)is such that he is financially able to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with 
his investment objectives
(c)is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  to understand 
the risks involved in the transaction
Mr Bs overall objective here wasnt only the transfer of his pension into a SIPP but included  
the investment  into Harlequin At the very least Mr B wasnt able to bear the financial risk of 
his investment as explained earlier in my decision.  I think Fairway shouldnt  have simply 
accepted the risk profile questionnaire that was provided to them  by Mr D. Fairway should  
have realised that at least two of the statements wouldnt apply to Mr B (even if he had 
thought differently):
I can afford to lose a large proportion of money  without my financial security  being affected
My earning capacity is such  that I can absorb this risk
If Fairway had done their own proper risk assessment, I think  they should have come  to the 
conclusion that Mr B had a much lower risk profile,  particularly with regard to his capacity to 
take any risk with his pension for the reasons Ive explained above.  Even  if Mr B was 
prepared to take high risks with his finances, Fairway should  have told him directly  and 
Ref: DRN17844599without qualifications  that they recommended  against the transfer.  The investment was 
unsuitable and consequently so was the SIPP as there was no other reason for the SIPP 
than to facilitate  the Harlequin investment.
Fairway say they treated  Mr B as an insistent client. Its true that Mr B essentially  proceeded  
despite Fairways risk warnings. However, as this was an advised sale he first needed to be 
given a clear recommendation to do or not to do something.  To be an insistent client  he 
would then have  to decide to go against  the advisers recommendation. As I explained I 
dont think Fairway gave a clear  recommendation without caveats against the investment in 
the SIPP. They pointed  out risks, but left the assessment of suitability to Mr B.
Fairway has referred to chapter 10 in COBS in their submissions. However, this chapter 
relates to the assessment of appropriateness  in non-advised sales.  This was an advised  
sale to which  chapter 9 in COBS applies. 
In summary,  I dont think Fairway met their obligations for giving  suitable  advice.
what would  Mr B have done  if Fairway had given his suitable advice?
As a service  we dont  punish businesses for their errors. We try to put customers  into the 
position they would be in if the correct action had been taken. I appreciate  that suitable 
advice could have  avoided Mr Bs losses. And I would agree that many customers  would 
follow the recommendation  of a regulated financial adviser. 
However, in these particular circumstances I think on balance Mr B would have still invested 
his pension into Harlequin even if Fairway had advised him not to do this. I say this for 
several reasons.
relationship with the introducer
Mr and Mrs B first heard  about Harlequin  from their friends, who introduced them  to Mr N 
and who were paid commission for this.
Mrs B provided us with some more background information about their situation  at the time. 
She told us the following:
Mrs B was interested  in buying  her friends  business  (the same friends who introduced  them 
to Mr N). Mr N shared the idea with her that she could raise extra capital she needed for this 
purchase by transferring her DB pension into a SIPP and invest  into Harlequin. Mrs B had a 
shortfall to buy her friends  shop, but Mr N offered to pay the £20,000  shortfall once the SIPP  
had gone through and the Harlequin  property had been  purchased.  Mrs B says she 
understood that she would repay  this sum once the Harlequin investment had paid out a 
couple of years later.
Mr N told her DB pension wouldnt be transferred if she was still employed, so he advised 
her to draw up a letter to say she had resigned. Mrs B says she wasnt prepared to resign at 
this stage as she hadnt bought her friends business yet and had no other income.
Mrs Bs parents had previously offered to lend her some money  to buy the shop, but 
changed their mind,  so Mrs B didnt have the funds to buy her friends business and so she 
didnt proceed  with the transfer of her pension. She had already paid the deposit  of £1,000 
Ref: DRN178445910on the Harlequin property, so rather  than lose this, it was suggested her husband would 
transfer his pension instead.
I think Mrs Bs submissions show that Mr N was willing to lend her a substantial amount of 
money if she invested into Harlequin. And their friends had invested too. I think this would 
have reassured  Mr and Mrs B that the investment was a good idea and that substantial 
returns in a couple of years  would be likely.  
Ive seen Mrs Bs resignation letter, so it seems Mrs B was prepared  to write this letter and 
present it to Fairway although  she had no intention  to resign at this stage, just to get them  to 
proceed with a recommendation. I think this shows Mrs B was prepared to go some way to 
proceed with this investment and follow Mr Ns suggestions on how to achieve  this.
Contrary to this, it seems Mr and Mrs B had no relationship with Fairway until shortly before 
the advice was given and it seems  were prepared to give them  misleading  information on 
Mrs Bs employment status. So I think they would have given more  weight to what  Mr N and 
their friends were telling them than Fairway.
Mrs B said it was decided to use her husbands pension  for the Harlequin  investment when 
her plans to buy her friends shop fell through and she didnt transfer her pension.  However,  
looking at the documents  from the time Mr B had asked to transfer his pension at the same 
time as Mrs B. Although I appreciate I mainly referred to Mrs Bs actions above, I think the 
couple had made the decision to invest together. Mrs Bs plan to buy her friends shop  might  
not have come to fruition and transferring her DB pension turned out to be difficult,  but I think 
they still thought investing  into Harlequin  would be beneficial for them.
risks explained
Fairway did point out that there was the possibility Mr B could  lose all his money. They also 
explained specific risks of overseas property and raised concerns that the advertised 
attractive returns were not guaranteed  and Fairway didnt  know how they had been 
calculated. Based on the information I have they explained this to Mrs B over the phone (and 
I think its reasonable to assume she would have told Mr B about her conversation)  and in 
several letters. And the messages were  clear. 
So Mr B would have  known about  the high risks of the investment and proceeded anyway. 
Im not convinced that in this particular case changing a qualified recommendation to a 
recommendation not to transfer (or even  a refusal to establish the SIPP)  would have 
changed Mr Bs actions. 
I think its likely that any risks warnings or advice  given  by Fairway were outweighed  by what 
Mr B was told by his friends, whom he most likely  trusted and who had invested  invest in 
Harlequin too. By the time Fairway got in touch  with Mr B for the first time in July 2011, he 
had already made his plans to transfer his pension and invest  into Harlequin. He had 
completed the SIPP and Harlequin  paperwork and had paid a non-refundable  deposit  of 
£1,000 to reserve the property. 
Ref: DRN178445911It wasnt that Mr B was looking for advice from Fairway whether he should  proceed. It seems 
Mr N and Mr Bs friend had already convinced him he should. Mr N only introduced  Fairway 
into the process as he couldnt recommend the SIPP  himself.
incentives 
Mr D told us that Limited Liability Partnerships (LLP) were  established for most client to act 
as subagents  for Harlequin and introduce  clients. Payments of several thousand pounds 
were offered  to be paid to the LLP as business  development loans  once the sales  were 
completed. These payments  went directly to clients and incentivised them further to invest. 
Ive seen evidence  for this on different  cases.
An LLP was established for Mr and Mrs B, however I havent seen any evidence whether 
any paybacks were paid and if so how much. Mr B says he never introduced  any further 
clients and I have seen  nothing to contradict this. Based  on evidence on other cases though 
it looks like paying something back to the client after the sale completion (even though no 
introduction had been made at this stage)  was the standard procedure  and Mrs B had been  
initially offered £20,000  as a loan, so on balance I think its likely Mr B received some form of 
incentive too. Ive also seen evidence  that Mr B made an additional contribution  to his SIPP 
in October 2011  of around £4,000. As he didnt have any savings  or real disposable income  
when he applied for the SIPP, these  funds could possibly have come from such  an incentive 
payment.
causation
Fairway shouldnt have recommended the SIPP. However, I dont think a negative 
recommendation from Fairway would have stopped Mr B from investing.  It seems that Mr B 
was not paying attention to what Fairway was telling him. He had no relationship with them, 
but likely  would have  relied on the information given to him by Mr N/Mr D and his friends. He 
ignored Fairways clear  risk warnings and wasnt even dissuaded by Fairway refusing to give 
his wife advice  to transfer as it was too high risk. So I dont think  its likely he would  have 
paid much attention  to a clear recommendation not to transfer. 
And even  if this had raised some doubts or concerns  with Mr B, I think it would have been 
quite a big step to cancel  the reservation of the property, lose the reservation fee, miss a 
possible incentive payment and disappoint his friend who would not be paid any commission 
either. Mr Bs representative  says Mr B thought the reservation fee was refundable if he 
didnt proceed,  however Mrs Bs submissions contradict this as she says they wanted to 
avoid losing the fee. Of course in hindsight  Im sure Mr B would say he would have accepted 
these losses in order to avoid losing his entire pension, but I dont think  at the time he would 
have seen it this way. I think its likely his friend would have continued to clear  any possible 
doubts. 
I think Mr B would have proceeded with his investment in any event. He could have done 
this by acting  as an insistent client (once he had been given a recommendation).
Ive considered whether Fairway should  have refused  to set up the SIPP for Mr B. The 
regulator doesnt require businesses to generally  refuse acting for clients after a negative 
recommendation. Its possible for clients to proceed  on an insistent client basis. Fairway did 
have to act in the clients best interest.  However,  I dont think this necessarily always means  
refusing to act altogether. Fairway suspected Harlequin was encouraging Mr B to invest, so 
Ref: DRN178445912they gave him and Mrs B extensive risk warnings and explained the potential consequences  
of losing all of his money.  
His wife didnt proceed with her transfer after Fairway said they werent in a position  to offer 
her advice whilst she was still employed.  However, that doesnt mean they had to refuse to 
act for Mr B who had a different kind of pension to his wife. 
I think Fairway  took reasonable steps to ensure Mr B understood what  he was doing and 
wasnt investing without  understanding the risks of his planned actions. So if he had given a 
clear recommendation -without caveats-  against the transfer and Mr B still wanted to 
proceed despite all warnings,  I think they wouldnt have acted unfairly  by helping him to 
execute his wishes.  In any event, even if Fairway had refused to assist,  I think Mr B wouldve 
explored alternatives to invest  (with the help of Mr N). Mr B wasnt required to have a 
recommendation from a financial  adviser to open  the SIPP and invest  in Harlequin. 
On balance I think Mr B would have incurred the same losses  even if Fairway had given him 
suitable advice.  I empathise with the position Mr B finds himself in, but I dont think  Fairways 
actions caused  his losses. And so it wouldnt be fair to uphold  the complaint against  them.  
For these reasons Im not intending  to request Fairway to compensate Mr B.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to provide comments or additional information  they wanted  me to 
consider. Fairway confirmed they had nothing  further to add. Mr Bs representatives 
disagreed with my decision and provided further  comments which I thank them  for. In 
summary they said:
The principles that businesses have to follow and which are set out in the regulators 
handbook should  be taken into account.  In particular Principle 6 which provides that 
a firm must  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  fairly
Fairway should have  done their own review of Mr Bs circumstances and risk 
assessment and shouldnt have accepted the assessment from a third party. 
Mr Bs overall objective wasnt the investment into Harlequin. If Fairway had 
conducted basic enquiries they would  have learnt about Mrs Bs objective to raise  
capital to buy a shop and would have  been in a position to provide alternatives  to 
meet this objective.
They cant see how Mr B wouldve pursued on an insistent client basis. His wife didnt  
proceed either after Fairway confirmed they wouldnt agree to the transfer. 
Under COBS 2.1.1R Fairway had a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in 
accordance with the best interest of its clients. In the knowledge that Mr B had been 
in contact with a Harlequin sales  agent, they should have provided him with an 
unequivocal warning  about receiving advice from an unregulated agent.  
Had Fairway  given Mr B this information together  with suitable advice not to proceed,  
there would  have been no reason for Mr B to continue with the transfer. He was a lay 
investor reliant on Fairway to provide appropriate  advice. Fairway left the decision  
whether the investment was appropriate to Mr B. This implied that Fairway was not in 
a position to directly  advise whether  the investment was suitable  and so any lay 
Ref: DRN178445913investor would  pursue  the investment based on the only advice  they were  given-in 
these circumstances  from the Harlequin agents.
Fairway has stated that if Mr B had provided that his attitude  to risk was anything 
other than high risk, they wouldve categorically  recommended not to proceed with 
Harlequin and refused  to assist. Fairway received information about  Mr Bs objectives 
from the Harlequin agent and not from Mr B directly. Fairway should have conducted 
their own assessment. And if they had done  so they wouldnt  have continued  to act 
for Mr B. So Mr B wouldnt  have been  in a position  to open a SIPP  and make an 
investment. 
Based  on Mrs B not continuing to proceed,  they dont agree that at that stage Mr B 
would have explored alternatives  to go ahead with the investment. Rather,  the
seriousness of an independent financial advisor  refusing to assist in his 
circumstances would  have bared  substantial  weight that the investment was not 
suitable. 
Mr B wasnt an experienced investor  or could he bear the risk of the investment.  
If Mr B had been given  suitable advice, he wouldnt have invested  in Harlequin.
Mr and Mrs B were  introduced to Harlequin by friends who introduced them to Mr N. 
The representatives dont agree  that more weight  would have been given to what  
they were told by these individuals. Advice from a regulated  independent firm would 
hold more weight  to a lay investor.
The prior introduction  to the investment by a Harlequin agent  shouldnt absolve 
Fairway of their involvement. An intention to pursue a potential investment is not the 
same as being set on proceeding in any event.
It wouldnt have been a big step to cancel the reservation. The risk of losing the fee 
of £1,000 would have  been outweighed by the risk of losing an entire pension fund. 
Fairway received £1,000 for each transaction and the SIPP provider  would have 
taken a similar fee. So any loss of the reservation  fee would have been offset when 
considering the payment for such fees.
The only suitable  advice would have been  not to transfer into a SIPP and invest in 
Harlequin. If Fairway had acted in Mr Bs interest they wouldnt have proceeded to 
act. Any lay investor would have strong concerns  and not proceed if a regulated  
adviser refused  to act. Mr B has lost out financially as a result of Fairways  actions.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
As I said in my provisional decision I think Fairway  failed to give suitable advice for all the 
reasons previously explained and I agree with Mr Bs representatives that they should have 
clearly advised against  the transfer  into the SIPP and the investment into Harlequin.
Ref: DRN178445914However, I still remain of the opinion that on balance Mr B would have proceeded with the 
investment even if Fairway had given him a suitable  recommendation.  In addition to what I 
said in my provisional decision I would like to add the following in response  to Mr Bs 
representatives comments:
I agree  that Fairway shouldnt have relied on the risk assessment that was given to them by 
a third party, particularly  given that based on the other available  information  it was clear Mr B 
wasnt able to bear the high risk of the Harlequin  investment.  
Although Fairway didnt  go far enough and didnt clearly advise against the transfer and 
investment into Harlequin as they should have, they clearly pointed  out the risks to Mr B in 
easy to understand  language. The risk of potentially losing all of his pension was explained 
several times together  with specific risks to overseas  property investment. Fairway  made  it 
clear in their recommendation letter and in the phone calls with Mrs B on 8 and 9 September 
that they had concerns about  the suitability of the investment.  They raised concerns that 
although returns seemed attractive, they werent  guaranteed and Fairway didnt know  how 
they were calculated. However, Mr B proceeded anyway despite these warnings and being 
informed about  the high risk he was about to take. 
Its correct that Fairway  refused to assist Mrs B whilst she would have needed to opt-out  of 
her DB scheme. They said they couldnt  qualify  any potential losses.  Mrs B was so adamant 
she wanted to go ahead  with the investment that she was prepared to present Fairway with 
a resignation letter despite her not intending  to leave her employment  at this point. Fairway 
did tell Mrs B if she resigned from her current employment they would give her advice on her 
deferred DB benefits, but it would likely be advice against the transfer. 
Mrs B didnt proceed using her DB pension for the Harlequin investment. However, from 
what Ive seen I dont  think this was because she was listening to Fairways warnings and 
following the advice  of a regulated adviser.  If this was the case I dont think she and Mr B 
would have continued to invest into Harlequin using Mr Bs pension instead.  I think  its more 
likely that she didnt  proceed because her plans  to buy her friends shop fell apart and 
opting-out of her DB scheme seemed  difficult. But it seems the couple still thought  investing  
into Harlequin would be beneficial to them despite all warnings that this was a high risk 
investment.
 
Mr Bs representatives think Fairway  shouldve  told Mr B that the Harlequin  agent was 
unregulated. I think it was reasonable for Fairway to assume that Mr B was given a reason 
why a regulated  financial  adviser was needed  to be involved and Mr N couldnt recommend 
the SIPP himself. And even if they had pointed  out that they were  regulated  and Mr N 
wasnt, I dont think this necessarily would have made Mr B place more  weight on what  
Fairway was saying. Mr N likely would have appeared a lot more knowledgeable about 
Harlequin investments  specifically whereas  Fairway admitted they didnt have experience in 
overseas property. And I think its likely  the risks pointed out by Fairway  would  have been  
played down by Mr N. 
On balance I still dont  think that a clear  recommendation  against the transfer  and 
investment would have  dissuaded Mr B from proceeding  with his plans, when a 
recommendation with caveats and clear risk warnings concerning overseas property didnt. 
The fact that the couple  still wanted to invest despite Fairway not assisting Mrs B with her 
transfer shows in my opinion how committed the couple was to invest in Harlequin. 
Ref: DRN178445915I still remain of the opinion that on balance  Mr B would have invested  into Harlequin and 
incurred the same losses, even if Fairway had acted correctly.
Mr B ignored Fairways  clear risk warnings, so Im not persuaded a clear recommendation 
against the transfer would have made him suddenly listen to what Fairway was saying. 
I think Mr and Mrs B would have put more  weight on what  Mr N and their friends were  telling  
them. I think its likely they would have  been able to persuade them  the Harlequin investment 
was still a good idea. After all Mr N had been prepared  to give them £20,000 which  he said 
could be paid back with the returns of the investment which  Im sure would have reassured 
Mr and Mrs B of Mr Ns assessment that the Harlequin investment would pay high returns  
very soon.  And as I said in my provisional decision I think its likely Mr B received some form 
of incentive payment as well (even  if it wasnt this high amount).
I appreciate that in hindsight it seems logical to rather change  your mind and miss out on 
any incentives or reservation fees rather than lose your entire pension. But I dont think  at 
the time Mr B would have seen it this way. Mrs B even told us they didnt want  to lose the 
reservation fee. I think having committed to an investment with a reservation fee might have 
been psychologically difficult  to backtrack  from given that they also would be losing out on 
the potential gains that appear to have  attracted  them to the investment in the first place. 
And together  with the loss of a possible incentive  payment if the investment  didnt  go ahead I 
think it would  have  persuaded  them to go ahead with their plans. I also think  its likely Mr N 
would have continued to clear any possible doubts. Its worth remembering that Harlequin 
had previously appeared to have provided good  investment returns for some  people.
I have taken into account the principles  businesses have to follow  and I agree that Fairway 
did have to act in the clients best interest. However, I dont think  this necessarily always  
means refusing  to act altogether. Its possible for clients to proceed on an insistent client 
basis. I think Fairway  suspected Harlequin was encouraging Mr and Mrs B to invest, so they 
gave them extensive risk warnings and explained the potential consequences  of losing all of 
their money. 
Setting aside that they didnt give a clear recommendation,  I think  Fairway took reasonable 
steps to ensure Mr B understood what he was doing  and wasnt investing without 
understanding the risks of his planned  actions. So if they had given a clear recommendation 
-without caveats- against the transfer and Mr B still wanted to proceed  despite all warnings, I 
think they wouldnt have  acted unfairly by helping him to execute his wishes.  
In any event, even  if Fairway  had refused to assist (which they could  have chosen  to do, but 
for reasons given  above I dont think had to in this case),  I think  Mr B wouldve explored 
alternatives to invest with the help of Mr N. He wasnt required to have a recommendation 
from a financial adviser to open a SIPP and invest in Harlequin.  There  were  SIPP  providers 
on the market at the time who would have  accepted  direct transfers from personal pensions  
without involvement  from a regulated financial adviser. And I think on balance, Mr B would 
have more likely followed those alternative  options before giving up the Harlequin investment 
completely.
On balance I think Mr B would have incurred the same losses  even if Fairway had given him 
suitable advice.
Ref: DRN178445916my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
23 April 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1784459