K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2000 and 
a 2004 increase. Mr and Mrs S say Coventry Building Society (Coventry) mis-sold the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs S and Coventry  a provisional decision to explain why I thought Coventry  
should refund the 2004 increase and, for the rest of the PPI, refund any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I said Id consider anything 
else Mr and Mrs S and Coventry wanted  to give me by 1 March  2019. I said if Coventry  and 
Mr and Mrs S replied  sooner I could issue my decision sooner. Coventry  and Mr and Mrs S 
did reply sooner. Mr and Mrs S told us they didnt have anything further to add. Coventry 
also didnt have any new information to add about the merits of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
The 2004  increase to the PPI was sold by Coventry  to Mr and Mrs S when they took out a 
personal loan.  The PPI wasnt designed  to protect  that sort of lending. So Coventry  offered 
to refund the extra premium amounts Mr and Mrs S paid for the cover  increase. I think  that 
would be appropriate,  from what Ive seen. So what else I say in this section applies only to 
the rest of the PPI cover.
In April 2000 Mr and Mrs S applied for a new mortgage with Coventry. They  applied  for PPI 
in August 2000 and a PPI policy started  in August 2000. In October  2000  a new PPI policy  
was issued and the first was cancelled. This was apparently an administrative change. It was 
made to give Mr and Mrs S a six months free cover period that theyd apparently  expected. 
It appears that the first policy hadnt  been  set up to include this as it should.
I understand the new policy  was the same  in all other practical respects as the first one. So 
at that stage no new sale took place  and Mr and Mrs S didnt sign again for the cover. So in 
considering the sale of the PPI, Im considering the sale in or around August 2000 which led 
to the PPI cover being set up in the first place.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application  form says Coventry strongly recommended  they take 
PPI. But it gives a number  of options,  including  the option to say no to the Coventrys own 
PPI and no to PPI altogether. Also Mr and Mrs S have  said they understood that taking  PPI 
wouldnt have affected whether they got the mortgage or not. On Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  
application form the box saying they wanted the PPI is ticked. And Mr and Mrs S both signed 
below this to confirm their choice. With all this in mind, I think  Coventry likely made it clear  
that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take the PPI  and they chose to take it.
The cover Mr and Mrs S took was for unemployment  as well as accident and sickness   as 
set out on the schedule  Mr and Mrs S sent to us. Mr and Mrs S remember  saying they didnt 
Ref: DRN19327032want accident or sickness cover  and theyve pointed out that they were young and healthy 
at the time. Theyve said they took the PPI for the unemployment cover only.
But there was an application form for the PPI. It had boxes for three different cover options  
including just unemployment or just accident  and sickness cover.  On Mr and Mrs Ss form 
the box for accident,  sickness and unemployment cover is marked. And Mr and Mrs S both 
signed the form. So, based on what I have,  I think its likely Mr and Mrs S chose and agreed  
to take out the PPI on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said they werent told they could shop around for this cover - so they 
understood they could only carry on with the cover Coventry supplied. But their mortgage 
application forms PPI section - where  their intention to take Coventrys PPI was indicated  
had alternative options  that included: I/We have  arranged  Payment Protection  elsewhere 
And, as Ive noted,  both Mr and Mrs S signed below this. So I think  most  likely Coventry  
made them aware that they could go elsewhere for PPI if they wanted.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they were led to believe that taking the PPI would make  Coventry  
less likely to enforce its right to repossess if they had repayment  problems. Theyve  said this, 
and the strong recommendation  of the cover, meant they felt pressured to take it. But while  
what Mr and Mrs S remember  about  how Coventry misled them is very specific, Ive not 
seen anything else to support what  theyve  said about this. The process spanned from April 
to August  with different  sorts of policies and cover under discussion. Taking into account 
also the length of time that has passed,  I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs S to vividly remember 
the detail of the sale of the PPI in particular. So what Mr and Mrs S can recall of this isnt, on 
its own, enough to make me think Coventry  misled  them in the way theyve said.
If Coventry recommended  the cover strongly, it wouldnt necessarily mean that Coventry had 
pressured Mr and Mrs S into taking the cover or had treated them unfairly.  Based  on what  I 
have, I havent  enough to say that Coventry did pressure Mr and Mrs S into taking the cover 
or treated them unfairly in this respect.
The cover was on Mr S only. Coventry recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to 
check the PPI was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think the PPI was right for them. For example  Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And Mr and Mrs S seem to have had a need  for the 
cover on Mr S.
I say this taking into account  that at the time Mr S was expected  to be the main earner in 
future. For a successful  disability claim,  the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to twelve months.  
This is longer than the six months  that Mr S believes his full work sick pay wouldve lasted. 
And the PPI benefit wouldve been  paid out on top. The PPI would also pay out for twelve  
months for a successful  unemployment claim.
Mr and Mrs S have  pointed out that they had savings  at the time with which they couldve 
kept up the mortgage payments for twelve months  (as well as any family help available to 
them). But I dont think the availability of savings made it wrong for Coventry to recommend 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. By helping cover  mortgage related costs, the PPI benefit  would 
help keep Mr and Mrs Ss savings intact   or leave  their savings  free to meet other costs at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr S were  unemployed or too sick to work.
Mr and Mrs S say the discussion of the appropriateness of the PPI was based more on why 
Coventry felt Mr and Mrs S required the cover, backed by examples of how it would work in 
Ref: DRN19327033Mr and Mrs Ss favour. They say Coventry  didnt approach this with their own circumstances 
in mind. But based on what Ive seen, and as Ive discussed above, I think  the cover  was 
right for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S have  also said that Mr S was made  redundant at least three  times  after he 
took the PPI, but he never needed  to claim and never  missed  a mortgage payment.  But even 
if Mr Ss periods of unemployment were long enough to qualify for the benefit and Mr S didnt 
claim it, in my view the PPI was still suitable cover for Coventry  to advise Mr S to take as it 
offered Mr and Mrs S extra security and potential benefit in their circumstances,  for the 
reasons Ive already given above.
Its possible the information Coventry gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it - so it looks to me like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And, for the reasons Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been  useful  
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable  cover  for them  at the 
time they took it. Taking  everything into account,  I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs S off taking out the cover.  I say this having considered also 
what Mr and Mrs S have  said about  the PPI waiting period not having  been explained. 
What Ive said above means Coventry doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S. But Coventry will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S 
because: 
Coventry got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Coventry  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Coventry has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ss points but my view remains as set out above,  for the 
reasons Ive given  above. I appreciate my conclusions disappoint Mr and Mrs S. Im grateful 
for the patience and cooperation theyve given us throughout this matter.
what the business needs  to do
For the extra premiums  Mr and Mrs S paid for the 2004 increase, Coventry should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S what  they paid each month for the increase
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year*
For the rest of the PPI cover:
Coventry has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Coventry should also pay back to Mr and Mrs S 
any extra  interest they paid because of that. Coventry should pay back to Mr and Mrs S 
the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share  it got was more  
than 50% of the cost of PPI. Coventry  should  also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest 
on each payment.
Ref: DRN19327034*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Coventry Building Society has to refund the premiums for the 2004 PPI increase in the 
way Ive described above. For the rest of the cover,  Coventry  Building  Society  has to pay 
back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932703