K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain  that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) overcharged them  
for their home insurance policy.
background
Mr S and Mrs S had a home insurance  policy with L&G for many  years.  They said L&G 
charged them for a four-bedroom  house when their property only had three  bedrooms. The 
house had been purchased as three-bedroom but a partition  was added to a large bedroom 
to create  an extra room. They used the fourth  room  as a study as it was too small to use as 
a bedroom. Mr S and Mrs S said when they told L&G it refunded the difference  in premium  
for the current year. But theyd like L&G to reimburse them for the full period of overpayment.
L&G said it refunded  just over £80 and altered the policy  to three bedrooms after speaking  to 
Mr S. But it wouldnt be able to provide a backdated  refund.  L&G said the property had been 
described by Mr S and Mrs S as four-bedroom since the insurance policy had been taken 
out. And Mr S and Mrs S hadnt tried to update the description until recently. L&G explained 
it calculated premiums based on the information  provided by its customers. And Mr S and 
Mrs S wouldve  had the opportunity to amend the policy at any time and particularly when 
invited to do so at each renewal date. 
Mr S and Mrs S werent satisfied with L&Gs response.  So they contacted  our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She felt L&G had acted fairly and based the 
premiums on the information provided by Mr S and Mrs S. So she didnt think  it was fair to 
ask L&G to refund the premium paid in previous  years.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  They  said 
they had bought the house  as a three-bedroom house. Thats how itd been  designed. So 
thats what L&G shouldve  charged  them for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S and Mrs S say they overpaid for their home insurance policy. So Ive looked carefully at 
whats happened. And whether L&G has done anything  wrong  it needs  to put right.
The property was initially purchased as a three-bedroom house.  A large bedroom was 
divided to create another bedroom. But after a while Mr S and Mrs S decided  it was too 
small and would be more  suitable as a study.  But they continued  to insure the property as a 
four-bedroom house after the extra room had been added.
Mr S and Mrs S saw an article  about another house  where a claim hadnt been settled 
because the insurance company felt the property had more  bedrooms than had been stated.
So they were  concerned  there might be a problem if L&G disputed the number of bedrooms 
listed on their own policy. And its right to carefully  check the details of an insurance policy  to 
make sure its accurate.  So I think Mr S did the right thing in contacting L&G and discussing  
how the rooms  were being used. L&G has issued a refund for the current  year.  But Mr S and 
Mrs S would like a refund for any additional amount theyve paid in previous years as well.
Ref: DRN18842312Ive looked carefully  at Mr S and Mrs Ss home  insurance policy.  It explains the premium  is 
determined by the information provided by the customer. And when  reviewing the policy or 
renewal document  the customer must tell L&G if the information changes or is incorrect.
When houses are built they are designed  with a certain number of bedrooms in mind. If the 
owner makes changes to the use of the house,  either through adding additional space or 
dividing existing rooms,  its their responsibility to update their insurer. As Mr S has 
acknowledged, it can affect potential claims if the policy information is incorrect.
L&G has explained the insurance premium  would normally be calculated  by how many  
bedrooms the property is designed  to have. Mr S and Mrs S said their property has four 
storeys so the use of the various rooms was more fluid than a traditional two storey house. 
And they say L&G hasnt  been able to clarify its statement about how many bedrooms the 
house should be designed for.
When Mr S and Mrs S bought the property they say it was advertised as a three-bedroom  
house. But after splitting  a large  bedroom  to create another bedroom they insured it as four-
bedroom. I understand the policy was taken  out in 2001 and it was updated in 2009. On both 
occasions the premium  was quoted  for four bedrooms. The renewal letter  states the insured 
property has four bedrooms. This wouldve been  based on the information  provided by Mr S 
and Mrs S when they took out the policy. And despite a number of renewal documents they 
didnt contact L&G after deciding  to use the additional room as a study instead.
L&G provided the insurance cover on the information provided by Mr S and Mrs S. The 
annual renewal document stated the property  had four bedrooms. And it wouldve been for 
Mr S and Mrs S to discuss  with L&G how to deal with the additional room once theyd 
decided not to use it for that purpose. L&G wouldnt know  the intended additional bedroom 
was now being  used for a different purpose.
I can see the latest renewal document doesnt refer to the number  of bedrooms in the 
property. And Mr S feels that shows L&G accepts it is difficult  to quantify  how rooms  may be 
used by different  owners. But previous cover was assessed on the information provided by 
Mr S and Mrs S after the additional room was created.  So although L&G has agreed how the 
property should  be insured moving  forwards I cant really say it has done anything wrong.
Ive looked at everything Mr S and Mrs S have said. And I do understand their frustration.  
But L&G provided  previous insurance  cover using the information provided by Mr S and
Mrs S after theyd created  the extra bedroom. Even if they decided  to use it as a study they 
didnt update their policy  or discuss the change  with their insurer. 
After discussing the matter L&G has refunded part of the current  premium.  But I dont think  it 
would be fair to ask L&G to refund  any of the previous payments. So I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020 .
Ref: DRN18842313Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1884231