K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the paintwork repairs  Admiral  Insurance Company Limited made to 
his car under  his motor insurance  policy. He wants these completed to the manufacturers 
standard, the car transported to the repairers and a like for like hire car whilst they are 
carried out.
background
Admiral had Mr Bs car repaired  at its approved garage but he was unhappy with the quality 
of the paintwork. He also said the garage  acted unacceptably and wouldnt  return his car 
unless he paid the policy excess.  
Admiral had an independent assessor look at the car. But he didnt see the car in the 
daylight and provided conflicting  reports.  Admiral reviewed  these  and offered Mr B a second 
assessment at its garage and paid him £120 compensation for his phone  calls and service 
issues. But Mr B didnt  want  to use the same  garage  and he wanted a like for like 
replacement car whilst his was being repaired.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think it 
was unusual for the garage to ask for the excess to be paid. He thought Admiral should have 
a different independent assessor look at the car in better conditions. He thought if further 
work was needed  Admiral  should have this done  at a different garage  and arrange  the 
transportation of the car. And he thought Admiral  needed to provide a like for like 
replacement car if repairs  were needed.
Admiral agreed to do everything  but provide a like for like replacement  car. It said this was 
outside the policy terms and conditions. But Mr B replied that he was still unhappy  that the 
repairer said it wouldnt release his car without him paying the excess. He wanted to accept 
Admirals previous offer for him to take his car to a garage of his choice for a repairs  
estimate that Admiral  would then pay. He didnt see the need for further assessment. He 
thought he was entitled to a like for like car due to the previous poor repairs.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration and annoyance that the repairs  werent completed to his 
satisfaction. I can also understand his impatience with the process for having the quality of 
the repairs inspected. Hes already accommodated one inspection and I can appreciate  that 
it would  be inconvenient to repeat this.
So I can see why Mr B says hed be happy to accept Admirals offer for him to take his car to 
a garage of his own choice  for an estimate. Our adjudicator said the independent assessors 
appointed by Admiral had raised this with Mr B on 19 June 2018. But I cant  see from 
Admirals file that this offer was put to Mr B by Admiral. I think  Admiral was still concerned  
with establishing  that the previous  paintwork  repairs had been  inadequate. 
Ref: DRN19254072Were not engineers. We dont assess the quality of repair  work  as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies  and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  about additional  repairs.
Where there is a dispute between a consumer and an insurer  over the quality of repairs,  as 
in this case, I would normally expect the insurer to obtain an expert independent report on 
the work.  So I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to commission  the independent  
assessor. Mr B thought  the independent  assessors  report  said the paintwork was clearly  
inadequate.
But I dont think this is clearly stated in the report.  I think the report says that further 
assessment in better conditions using specialised equipment  would be needed. I can see 
that Admiral accepted this and has tried to arrange  for a further assessment, by a different 
assessor. Mr B hasnt been  agreeable to this, but I cant  see that hes provided  any further 
evidence for Admiral to consider that would show the assessment wasnt needed. In fact, 
hes raised two further concerns about  the quality of the repairs.  
I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect Admiral to pay for further repairs unless the 
previous repairs had been shown  to be inadequate. So I think  its reasonable for Admiral  to 
obtain a further assessment to clarify matters. I think this assessment should  also look at the 
further concerns  raised by Mr B. I can see that Admiral has been  very flexible about the 
necessary arrangements.  I can appreciate  that it adds inconvenience,  but I think  its for Mr B 
to co-operate with Admiral if he wants to resolve  this point. 
If further repairs are found to be required, Admiral has also agreed  to transport the car to a 
different manufacturers  approved repairers.  I think this is fair and reasonable as it would 
cause Mr B less inconvenience.  
But Admiral  said the policy  would only provide for a small  replacement car whilst Mr Bs car 
was being repaired. I dont think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on this policy term 
in these particular  circumstances. I think that if further repairs are shown to be required then 
Admiral will be shown to have made an error in the way the initial repair  was carried out. And 
if Mr B is without  his car as a consequence  then Admiral  needs to put Mr B in the position he 
would have been in without its error. So I think its fair and reasonable in this case  that 
Admiral provides Mr B with a like for like replacement car if his is shown to need further 
repairs.  
Mr B also complained that Admirals repairer  wouldnt release his car unless he paid his 
policy excess until he threatened to call the police.  Ive looked at Mr Bs policy terms and 
conditions. It says that Admiral wont pay the first amount  of any claim shown in the policy 
schedule under excess. It says this is the policyholders responsibility.  I dont  think  this 
request was unusual  or unreasonable. Mr B could  still raise  his concerns with Admiral  after 
paying his policy excess. I cant see anything in the policy that would preclude him from 
doing that.
Mr B had other concerns with the service provided by Admiral. Admiral agreed that there had 
been errors. It said it hadnt recorded  Mr Bs complaint  correctly  or responded to it within the 
required time. It also said Mr B had been kept on hold when hed telephoned. But I think  
Admirals offer of £120 compensation for the upset caused by these errors was fair and 
reasonable. Its in keeping  with what wed award in similar circumstances. So I dont think  it 
needs to pay Mr B further compensation.   
Ref: DRN19254073my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Pay for a second independent assessment of the paintwork repairs  to Mr Bs car, as its 
already agreed  to do. 
2.If further claim-related repairs are needed, then Admiral should  pay for these to be 
carried out at a different manufacturer approved garage.  
3.It should then pay for the car to be transported to the garage  and provide  Mr B with a like 
for like replacement car for the duration of the repairs.
4.Admiral is entitled to charge the applicable  policy excess  as set out in its policy terms 
and conditions.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1925407