K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss C says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss C has said that she was unaware  the PPI was on her account and so it must have been 
added without her knowledge  or consent. But I think Capital  One made it clear that Miss C 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Capital One has confirmed the PPI was taken out in a phone call to activate  the credit  card 
which took place  after the application had been  completed and processed. It no longer  has a 
record of the call but it has sent us a copy of the telephone  guidance process from around 
that time which it says it would have expected its staff to follow  when selling PPI over the 
phone. Capital One says this would reflect the conversation if would have had with Miss C. 
And whilst I cant  be certain exactly what was discussed in the call, this document  does 
direct the staff member to ask for a customers permission  before adding PPI to the account.  
As I have no evidence to make me think  otherwise, it seems more  likely than not that the 
staff member would  have followed this process.
Ive also seen copies  of statements from Miss Cs credit card account. These show that the 
charge for the PPI was listed as a separate entry. So if Miss C hadnt  agreed to take out the 
PPI, or it was added  without her knowledge,  I think she would have questioned this with 
Capital One when she saw the payments on her statements. 
So based  on what Ive seen and what I know about  Capital  Ones sales practices  at that 
time, I think  its more likely that Capital One made  Miss C aware that the policy  was 
optional and she chose  to take it, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it  even if 
she may not recall that now.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide for herself 
if it was right for her.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
It also appears that the cover would have been  useful for her if something  went wrong. 
From what  Miss C has told us, she may have received sick pay from her employer if she 
was too ill to work, but this wasnt guaranteed  as it was at the managers  discretion. And 
Ref: DRN17686552whilst Ive noted that she says her family  and friends  would have helped  her if needed, 
support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change,  meaning  
they cant provide  such financial assistance. So this doesnt alter my decision.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C. 
But Capital  One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell
Miss C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe)  plc does not have  to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital  One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1768655