K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that a car she financed through an agreement with Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  was not of satisfactory quality. She also complains  that 
VWFS charged her an option to purchase  fee without her approval and sent debt recovery 
letters to her unnecessarily.
background
Mrs A took receipt of a new car in May 2015.  She financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with VWFS. But she says the car was not of satisfactory  quality as she had 
several issues with it: She says she experienced the following problems:
a fault with the infotainment screen  blanking out
the engine  over heating
the parking  brake sticking
She complained to VWFS about  these issues in 2018 but they said the first theyd heard of 
any problems with the car was in February 2017  almost two years after Mrs A had taken 
receipt of it. They explained  they were responsible for faults with the car when it was 
supplied to Mrs A but said, as these faults had happened after such  a long time,  they were  
not their responsibility.
Mrs A was also upset that at the end of the three year contract VWFS took the balloon  
payment and the option to purchase  fee from her account. She said theyd not told her theyd  
do this and it wasnt what she wanted.  VWFS said theyd sent Mrs A a letter  which explained 
what her options were at the end of the contract but Mrs A hadnt told them  shed changed 
address and this was why she hadnt received it. So they didnt think  theyd done anything 
wrong when requesting the balloon payment.
Mrs A complained that shed told VWFS about  her address change in 2016 but they hadnt 
updated their records. She arranged  with VWFS to hand back  the car instead of paying her 
balloon payment but was disappointed to subsequently  receive letters chasing payment. So, 
disappointed with the response  from VWFS, Mrs A referred her complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was evidence  the car was of unsatisfactory  quality. He 
explained that VWFSs responsibility was for the quality of the car when supplied and he 
thought, as so much  time had passed before Mrs A reported an issue with the car, it was 
reasonable to suggest she would need  to prove  the faults she complained of were  there  from 
the beginning. He wasnt persuaded shed  been able to do that so he didnt think it would be 
reasonable to suggest the car was not of satisfactory quality.
He went on to consider  whether VWFS  had been right to try to collect  the balloon payment 
and option to purchase fee. He couldnt find evidence that Mrs A had informed VWFS about 
an address change in 2016  and he noted  theyd  written  to her at the address they had on 
file. So he didnt think theyd been wrong  to take payment.
But he did think VWFS  had been wrong to collect the option  to purchase fee because he 
didnt think Mrs A had asked VWFS to allow her to purchase the car. 
He also thought theyd been  wrong  to send default letters  to her as it was clear an 
agreement had been reached to hand  the car back. 
Ref: DRN10079212So overall, he thought it would be fair for VWFS to return the option to purchase fee of £60 
and to pay Mrs A £50 compensation in respect  of the distress and inconvenience shed been 
caused by their unnecessary debt collection activity.
VWFS didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. They said that it was a common 
misunderstanding that the option to purchase  fee was only payable  if the consumer wanted  
to purchase the vehicle.  They said it was also payable  when  the car was handed back  to 
enable them to sell the car as an agent  of the consumer.  So they asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint VWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
was the vehicle of satisfactory quality?
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs A. The car 
here was brand new so I wouldnt expect it to have  any faults  when supplied.  
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ref: DRN10079213VWFS are right to suggest that legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Mrs A says she reported the issue with the infotainment system within the first few months  
but the first report I can see of this is on a job card which was raised in February 2017. Im 
persuaded that this was the most  likely time it was first reported as theres  no earlier  
documentation and I would have expected to see this if the issue  had presented itself earlier.
But even if I did find evidence to suggest  the infotainment problem was reported within the 
first six months, the relevant legislation  would allow VWFS one opportunity  to repair  that fault 
and it wouldnt,  on its own, be a cause for rejection of the car.
Thereafter the issues that Mrs A complains  about appear to have  happened  after shed had 
the car for considerably more than six months.  The overheating appears to have occurred in 
February 2017 and the hand brake issue later that year. I think its therefore most  likely that 
the faults Mrs A complains of were not present when the vehicle was supplied and have 
occurred subsequently.
Ive also considered whether these issues would suggest the car had not been durable and 
had for that reason not been of satisfactory quality. But here Im not persuaded that was the 
case. Mrs A seems  to have been  able to complete a reasonable mileage in the car (almost  
24,000 when the car was serviced in July 2017) and Im not persuaded the problems  she 
complains of were so significant to suggest the car wasnt durable.
was it fair for VWFS to take the balloon payment and option to purchase  fee?
I dont agree that the terms and conditions  of the finance agreement explained that the 
option to purchase  fee was due if the vehicle was handed back.  It said:
To exercise the option to purchase  the vehicle, you must add the Option to Purchase  Fee of 
£60.00 to the amount  of the final monthly payment 
Its clear that Mrs A didnt  exercise her option to purchase and as thats the only point at 
which the contract suggests the fee is added then it wouldnt seem fair to charge it.
Ive not seen evidence that Mrs A was aware of a need to pay the fee if she handed the car 
back. That doesnt appear to have been  communicated to her until VWFS sent their hand 
back letter  almost three  years after the agreement started. That letter,  sent on 4 April 2018, 
said that a balloon payment and an option to purchase fee would be taken  by default if Mrs A 
didnt request an alternative  such as handing  the car back.
Mrs A says she told VWFS about her new address sometime in 2016. But I cant see a 
reference to that on VWFSs system.
Ref: DRN10079214I can see from their system notes that post had been returned to them  on 7 March 2018  as 
Mrs As address had changed. I can also see that they attempted to discover Mrs As new 
address as they made a keeper enquiry through the credit  reference agencies.
They updated Mrs As address  on 10 April 2018  but clearly knew  the address was wrong in 
March 2018.
So its clear that when they sent their letter to Mrs A in April 2018, regardless of whether 
Mrs A had told them about the address  change, they were  aware  she didnt live there 
anymore as theyd  had post returned to them.
I cant see that they tried to contact Mrs A by phone or email to check which option she 
preferred when the agreement terminated.  In those circumstances it would  seem  
unreasonable to automatically request a significant balloon payment and an option to 
purchase fee when  they hadnt clarified  Mrs As position on the matter. 
Theyve already  returned the balloon  payment  but I think  in those circumstances VWFS  
should also refund the option to purchase  fee as I dont think  it was reasonable to take it 
without approval.
The terms and conditions  say:
when you have made all payments due to us under this agreement, you will have the option 
of purchasing the vehicle. You may exercise this right by paying  to us the option to purchase 
fee ... until you have  exercised this option,  the vehicle will remain our property.
Im not persuaded that Mrs A did exercise  this right. So the option  to purchase fee should not 
have been debited and I dont accept  VWFSs argument that its payable when the car is 
handed back to enable them to sell the car as an agent of the consumer. The car remains 
VWFSs until the purchase  is completed.  There was no option taken to purchase the car so 
VWFS cannot act as the consumers agent  in any sale as the car is not the consumers to 
sell.
were debt collection activities warranted?
VWFS discussed Mrs As concerns with her in May 2018. The system notes say that at that 
point they blocked the balloon payment.  I think  its fair to say that at that point an 
agreement had been reached that a balloon payment  would not be made  and Mrs A would 
be pursuing a different  option. So VWFS were  wrong to send debt collection letters which  
culminated in a default letter in July 2018. This will Im sure have been distressing for Mrs A 
and I therefore  think it would be reasonable for VWFS to compensate her for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. In the circumstances I would agree with the adjudicator  that a 
payment of £50 would be reasonable.
Ive noted that Mrs A disputes the end of term charges  that VWFS have asked her to pay to 
refurbish the car. VWFS have asked to be given an opportunity to review these charges 
before any complaint about them is considered by this service and I think thats  fair. So Ive 
not looked at that in this decision.
Ref: DRN10079215my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
refund  the option to purchase  fee, if they havent  already done  so, and add 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
pay Mrs A £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced
remove any adverse record they may have recorded on Mrs As credit file in relation 
to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1007921