K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  wont  refund transactions he 
didnt make.
background
Mr M had got in touch  with Halifax as he believed hed been  a victim of ID fraud. This was 
after hed been notified he had a limited balance on his Halifax account. Firstly thered been 
lots of payments  made to a gambling  company. Hed complained about these but didnt  want  
his card cancelled.  Hed been in touch  with the gambling company whod agreed to repay 
him and he noted  two large credits into his account.  Halifax felt there was nothing  left for 
them to do.
Later in 2018  Mr M complained again  about other transactions to a different gambling 
company made from 6 to 16 September 2018.  Halifaxs record  showed the transactions took 
place from the same  IP address as Mr M often used but they were  made  using a different 
device to his. A new card was sent to Mr M and transactions were refunded to his account.
Mr M then noticed there were two loans taken out in his name for £4,000 and £5,000  on 
1 August 2018.  He hadnt originally picked these up when first complaining to Halifax in 2018 
as hed been expecting to be repaid by the gambling company. It turned out this had never 
happened. Mr M was concerned about what had happened.
Halifax felt overall it was unlikely someone wouldnt notice such large  payments as these two 
loans or mistake them for refunds  from a gambling company. Theyd repaid Mr M £3,940 on 
17 September. They werent going  to do anything further to assist 
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator discussed  this case with Mr M. He told her hed got a call from the first 
gambling company  (who  Ill call J) saying theyd refund  him in two amounts. He received two 
payments inwards.  Hed not noticed  these  were from two different companies, or that he was 
paying off those loans by direct debits on his account. One of the loans was with a company, 
H, who he already held a loan with so wasnt surprised to see a payment being made to 
them.
The original  calls we got from Halifax showed  Mr M knew  that his partner  had formerly  had 
an account with J. But he was convinced hed been scammed  both the card transactions  to 
J and the subsequent phone call which hed been led to believe was from J. In fact the 
evidence showed  that it was Mr Ms partner whod told him shed spoken to J when the 
refunds were  promised.
Our investigator got evidence from J to show Mr Ms partner, Ms G, held an account with 
them. It appeared in July 2018 she may have used Mr Ms debit card details to make the 
disputed transactions.
Overall our investigator felt it was more than likely Mr M knew  about these transactions  as 
evidence showed  he was using his mobile  banking service during the period of these  
transactions. She wasnt going to ask Halifax to refund Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
Ref: DRN14853782I completed a provisional decision on 12 May 2020.  I came  to the same conclusion  as our 
investigator but my arguments why this was the case  differed from hers. It was fair to 
complete a provisional decision.
Halifax accepted  the outcome. Mr M didnt respond  within the timescale.
I now have all I need to complete  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  the same  
outcome as in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I was in touch with both Halifax  and Mr M before  I completed the provisional decision to give 
them some early indications of my thinking on this case. I repeat some of that below.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Halifax, Mr M and J have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were comprehensively covered  in our investigators view of 19 December 2019. I 
dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects 
which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr M and Halifax Ive read the file 
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
The account with J where transactions on Mr Ms card credited was definitely held in 
the name of Ms G. This account was opened in June 2018  and set up with Mr Ms 
card details.  It doesnt really matter  that Mr M retained his card at all times as Ms G 
had already used  the details that were needed.  
£5,680 was spent with J from 14 to 31 July 2018. More  than £16,000  of transactions 
attempted on 30 and 31 July were declined. I suspect there were not sufficient funds 
in Mr Ms account.
Mr M has told us he was away at the time of these transactions.  I agree this was the 
case based on the evidence Ive seen.  It is possible he may not have known what 
Ms G was doing.  
Ref: DRN14853783However, like our investigator,  I find the story around the refund that was going to be 
made  which  turned  out to be loans  taken out in Mr Ms name   inconsistent with the 
facts.
I can see from the evidence Mr M checked his balance  and admitted early on with 
Halifax that Ms G held an account  with J. When he was discussing  his complaint with 
our investigator, he told us this isnt what hed meant. He was prepared to believe 
what Ms G was telling  him about the refunds and didnt notice the amount credited to 
his account on 1 August was £9,000 so greatly  exceeded the amount spent with J.
It does look as if the £5,000 loan money  from H was firstly transferred to his joint 
account with Ms G and then to her sole account.  Halifax  has said itself that a different 
device was used  for the transactions (probably including this transfer)  on 1 August. 
This suggests that Ms G also knew Mr Ms logon  details to transfer this money. Mr M 
hasnt been able to explain why shed  know  those.
Ive noted  that Mr M believes hed been scammed previously  so this may have been 
a further instance done  by the same person. Theres no evidence  this is the case.  I 
cant see how an unknown third party would know Mr Ms account logon  details or 
why theyd transfer £5,000 to Ms Gs account. Nor what  theyd gain from opening  a 
gambling account in Ms Gs name  with her correct  email  and other  contact details.
Ms G is also pushing  him to try and get the money back as she feels  shes  being 
accused here too.
Considering all the evidence, I dont believe Mr M made the transactions  in dispute. 
But thats not the full story  here. Two loans credited this account which  fully reimbursed the 
account. Mr M said he knew nothing of these. This suggests he was paying limited  attention  
to his account. 
Theres nothing here that suggests an unknown third party  accessed  Mr Ms card details or 
used his account to make the transfer  to Mr Ms joint account with Ms G.
Hes told me hes very trusting  of his partner as theyve been together a long time. I 
absolutely understand why hed say that. Ive apologised that by completing a decision on 
his case and clarifying what I believe happened, hed be faced with what  may be 
uncomfortable facts.
Theres a concept  of apparent authority which relates to the Payment Services Regulations. I 
cant say for sure that Mr M definitively authorised Ms G to make  the transactions  to J. But 
its clear Ms G knew Mr Ms card details  and his account logon information.  This does 
suggest Mr M may have  allowed Ms G to use his account on occasion.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations,  we consider the issue of the relationship between 
the account-holder, formally Mr M, and the person making the transactions.  In this case  
thats Ms G. I think, taking  into account all the circumstances of this case, Mr M authorised  
Miss B to act as his agent:  to make transactions on his behalf. He may not have thought 
about it in this way of course. 
He wouldnt necessarily differentiate between those  transactions he allowed her to make and 
those that she made without his specific authority. I dont  doubt there were  individual  
transactions which Mr M didnt authorise. But because of the nature of their relationship,  he 
was giving her apparent  authority to carry out those transactions  he subsequently disputed. 
Ref: DRN14853784On this basis I dont  believe it would be fair and reasonable  to ask Halifax  to refund Mr M for 
the disputed transactions to J.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against  
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1485378