K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained about U Drive Cover Ltds service in connection  with his motor 
insurance policies.
background 
U Drive sold Mr D a policy in 2016.  It arranged a different  policy for him in 2017. Mr D wasn't  
happy with U Drives  service after he changed the car on the policy,  so he told it he was 
cancelling his policy. U Drive  told him that he still owed around £818.
Mr D brought his complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator noted that after Mr D had 
complained U Drive negotiated with the insurer who agreed to only charge Mr D for his time 
on cover.  That meant that it reduced  the sum Mr D owed to around £329.  Our adjudicator  
thought that U Drive had dealt with Mr D reasonably.
Mr D didn't agree so his complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr D has made  a number  of detailed points. But in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the key outstanding issues  that were  U Drives 
responsibility.
It might help if I explain that U Drive is an insurance  broker. That means  it will arrange 
policies for its customers. But its not an insurer. So it doesn't  actually provide the cover 
itself, neither does  it make  claims decision nor set premiums. Those  decisions are made  by 
the insurers who underwrite the policies. And the insurers  concerned are separate  
businesses from U Drive.  That remains the case even where U Drive  is acting as an agent  
for the insurer, for example when collecting premium payments or in performing 
administrative tasks. In those circumstances U Drive is essentially stepping into the shoes of 
the insurer. So any complaints about  those actions should be put to the insurer concerned  
rather than U Drive.
In 2016/17 U Drive  placed  Mr Ds insurance with a company Ill refer to as S. During that 
policy year another  driver hit Mr Ds car while it was unoccupied. Mr D phoned U Drive and it 
put him directly in touch with S to report the claim.  S was then responsible for processing 
that claim,  that wasn't  anything  U Drive  had control  over. 
It seems  that the claim took some time to conclude and in the interim Mr Ds policy  fell due 
for renewal. Mr D was unhappy that U Drive couldn't confirm  his no claims discount  (NCD)  at 
that time.  But it seems  that the fact that S still hadn't closed the previous claims was 
affecting his NCD.  In other words as S hadn't yet recovered its outlay the incident  was 
showing as a fault claim against Mr Ds driving history. And it was that open  claim that was 
affecting Mr Ds NCD entitlement. But that wasn't  because of anything  U Drive did or didn't 
do. As I've said above, responsibility for settling the claim,  and so deciding if Mr D's NCD 
was affected, rested entirely with S at that point. But in any event, I've seen that S wrote  to 
Ref: DRN10049182Mr D on 7 August 2018 to confirm that Mr D had become entitled to a years NCD for the 
year S insured him.
Mr D was unhappy that U Drive wouldn't let him talk to S. But its clear that Mr D did talk to S 
initially in order to report the claim. So I don't think its fair to say that U Drive didn't let Mr D 
speak with S. Also, its often the case the insurers will use brokers  to act as their agents. 
And the broker - acting  as the agents insurer - might be the first point of contact for a 
policyholder. Thats  certainly not an usual situation  and I don't find it unfair.  And when acting 
in that capacity the broker is, in effect,  doing  the work of the insurer.  So I don't think  U Drive 
dealt with Mr D unfairly.
S didn't offer Mr D a renewal policy. U Drive found  another insurer, which Ill refer to as X, to 
offer Mr D a policy. That policy was flat rated.  That means it wouldn't  ever be reduced by 
any NCD. And that meant that, even after S had settled the previous  claim as non-fault,  and 
reinstated Mr Ds NCD, his 2017/18 premium wasn't  affected by that decision. And I can see 
that U Drive explained that to Mr D before  he bought the policy.
Mr S later bought a new car. It appears that he completed  the purchase during  a weekend. 
He tried to contact U Drive to add the car to his policy  but couldn't  get through.  So he had to 
buy temporary cover in order to drive  it home.  I can understand  that Mr D found that 
frustrating. But were  not the industry regulator. That means  its not for me to tell a business 
what hours it must remain open as thats  essentially a commercial decision its entitled to 
arrive at. So not all brokers or insurers will be available throughout the weekend. And I've 
seen that U Drives website explains that its available until 1pm on Saturdays and isn't open 
on Sundays. So that was information that was available  to Mr D before he decided to buy a 
car of a weekend. It follows that I don't think any additional costs  Mr D incurred because  
U Drive wasn't open is because of any fault by it.
When Mr D did get through to U Drive it told him that it would  cost him around £188  to add 
his new car to his policy. At that time Mr Ds policy still had about  three  months left to run. 
That is three months left of its intended  12 month term. So the change Mr D was making to it 
is known as a mid-term adjustment. And its standard  across  the motor  insurance industry 
that where the risk on the policy changes  significantly mid-term an insurer  will look again at 
that risk and decide  if the premium needs adjusting for the remainder of that term. And if the 
risk goes up then the insurer  will charge an additional  premium. Thats  what happened in this 
case. But that decision to charge an additional premium was the insurers - X - and U Drive 
was simply acting on its behalf when passing that charge on to Mr D. So I don't think it did 
anything wrong  when telling Mr D hed have to pay an additional premium to change  the car 
on his policy.
Mr D told U Drive he wanted to cancel his policy. U Drive told him that if he did so he 
wouldn't receive any refund and in fact would still owe around £816. That's because the 
terms of his policy with X said that if it was cancelled after nine months then the full premium 
for the year was due. Again that was Xs decision not U Drives. Mr D was paying his 
premium in instalments  via a credit provider, which again is a separate  business  to U Drive. 
In other  words the credit provider lent Mr D the funds for the premium and charged interest 
on that to allow him to pay it in instalments. And given that at the point Mr D cancelled his 
policy, he still hadn't paid the full years premium,  its understandable that U Drive told him 
hed need to pay the balance owing. It did again offer him the option  of paying the additional 
premium for the change  of car and letting the policy  run for the rest of its term. But Mr D 
chose to go ahead with the cancellation.
Ref: DRN10049183U Drive later negotiated with X so that it would only charge Mr D for his time on cover. That 
means that X was no longer charging him for the remaining three months  of cover.  And 
U Drive told him that he would still owe around  £329. Mr D said to us that as he had 
cancelled his policy he was no longer  receiving  a service so shouldnt have to pay any more.  
But of the outstanding sum, only £75 was a charge applied  by U Drive for its cancellation 
fee. The remaining  sums are owed to X for the time on cover and the credit provider for the 
interest on the loan.  So the amounts outstanding  were for service already provided.  It follows 
that I dont  think U Drive did anything wrong  in telling Mr D that he still owed funds.
So I think U Drive dealt with Mr D fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1004918