K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy for water damage. 
background
On 26 December 2018 Mr B made a claim under his AXA home insurance policy  for water 
damage to his property,  which had been  caused by a leak from the toilet overflow. 
AXA instructed  an agent, who Ill refer to as R, to inspect the damage sustained to a carpet 
in Mr Bs property and replace it with a new one. R attended Mr Bs property on two 
occasions  those being on 7 January  and 14 February. R met with Mr Bs wife. He said she 
was shown only one type of carpet in various  colours and told the quality was superior to the 
damaged carpet.  
Mr B said he felt the sample  of carpet shown looked acceptable. However,  he said his wife 
was put under pressure to select the carpet  colour she wanted and he said R made 
disrespectful comments about items in his property. 
Having chosen  the carpet  offered, Mr B said there was a delay in the carpet being fitted. 
While the carpet was ordered on 18 February it wasnt fitted until 2 April 2019.  Once the 
carpet has fitted, Mr B said he felt the quality was inferior to the carpet  it had replaced  and 
he disliked its appearance due to the pattern it had. He also felt the quality of the fit was poor 
as parts  of the carpet were baggy  and lumpy. Overall, Mr B wasnt  happy with what had 
happened. So, he complained to AXA and told it he wanted the carpet removing and 
replacing with a more  suitable product. 
After AXA investigated  Mr Bs complaint it agreed the quality  of the carpet  fitting was poor 
and it offered to instruct R to revisit  Mr Bs property to resolve this problem.  It also agreed 
Mr B had received  poor service due to the delays  hed experienced in his carpet being fitted. 
So, to recognise  this AXA paid him £250  compensation and upheld  these aspects  of his 
complaint. However,  it stated it wasnt prepared to replace the carpet  R had fitted as it said 
this carpet  had been chosen by Mr B.
Mr B remained unhappy  with how AXA proposed to resolve his complaint. So he referred it 
to our service. Our investigator looked  into all of Mr Bs concerns and didnt uphold  this 
complaint. Overall, they thought AXA had dealt with the complaint fairly. And they were 
satisfied it had offered  a reasonable amount  of compensation that appropriately recognised 
the distress and inconvenience  he had been caused by delays  in the claims process  and the 
poor quality  of the carpet fit. But Mr B disagreed  with our investigators view and asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr B experienced here.  I can appreciate  he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. 
Ref: DRN14394132My role is to assess whether I think AXA made  a mistake,  or treated Mr B unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things  right. And, having  thought carefully about everything he and AXA 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont  think  it did. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by 
this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
There are four parts to this complaint  and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with them  
separately. 
Choice of carpet by R
Mr B states R didnt provide a suitable level of choice of carpet. He said he expected to be 
shown more than one sample. But R said it provided Mr B with a selection of samples and 
he chose the one he wanted. AXA said this is what would  usually happen  when a customer 
was offered a replacement carpet  by R. 
Mr B said his wife was pressured  into accepting the carpet that was offered by R. However,  I 
think if Mr B or his wife had felt under pressure they could have told R or AXA they wanted 
time to reflect on the options available before making their choice. They also could have 
requested additional samples from R if they felt they hadnt been given sufficient choice. And 
I havent seen  any evidence that leads  me to fairly  conclude that R acted  improperly or dealt 
with Mr B unfairly.
Appearance of carpet fitted 
Mr B said the carpet fitted wasnt representative of the sample he was shown by R. But AXA 
said the carpet R fitted was the same  as the one selected from the sample he was shown.
Ive seen photographs of the sample  of the carpet Mr B selected and the carpet that was 
fitted. Having  considered  both carefully Im persuaded that the carpet sample  is identical  to 
the carpet that was fitted. I say this because I can see that the pattern on each photograph  is 
the same   its just on a smaller scale where the sample is concerned.  So, I can understand 
why Mr B may have  been surprised that the carpet looked different when fit.
On looking carefully  at the sample Mr B chose I can see there  are colour  differences  in the 
carpet pile, which make up the pattern on the carpet. I think Mr B ought to have noticed 
these colour differences when making  his choice of carpet and I cant fairly  conclude an error  
was made  by AXA or R here. 
I dont doubt that it wasnt  Mr Bs intention to choose a patterned  carpet. But if he wanted to 
ensure he was selecting a non patterned carpet  he ought to have checked this with R prior 
to the carpet being laid. He could have requested  a larger sample so he could be satisfied 
his choice was right. Im satisfied there was sufficient time available  for Mr B to make these 
enquiries before the carpet  was fitted. Alternatively, he could have  raised his concerns  once  
the carpet had been delivered  prior to it being fitted. And I cant fairly hold AXA responsible  
if he chose not to exercise these choices or seek clarification. As any carpet selection was 
final he needed to be sure he was choosing the carpet he wanted.  And it would be unfair  for 
me to ask, or expect, an insurer to replace a carpet which has been chosen in error.  
Quality of the carpet fit
Its clear Mr B is unhappy  with the quality of the carpet fitting  R undertook. AXA accepts  the 
carpet hasnt been fitted properly. So its not in dispute that Rs service here was poor.  To 
Ref: DRN14394133resolve this issue AXA has proposed  to instruct R to revisit Mr Bs property  to make good the 
problems with the carpet. This is what Id have  told it to do. So, its already offered to put 
matters right as Id expect.
Its also paid compensation to Mr B to recognise the distress and inconvenience the poor 
carpet fitting caused.  The overall sum its paid is £250  but this also includes compensation 
to reflect  the delays Mr B experienced  in his replacement  carpet being supplied  and fitted.
Delay in carpet being  fitted
I can understand why Mr B isnt happy  with the length of time it took R to supply and fit his 
carpet. It isnt clear what the cause of this delay was and I think the carpet  could have been 
ordered and supplied faster. I also think if AXA had been more proactive in coordinating R 
this would have  resulted  in Mr Bs carpet being  fitted quicker.
As I mentioned above, AXA has paid £250 compensation to Mr B to reflect  the delay he 
experienced and poor carpet  fitting R undertook. Its clear he doesnt  think this adequately 
reflects his inconvenience  and experience. So Ive thought about  whether the amount of 
compensation offered fairly recognises  what happened here.
I realise that what happened  must  have been  incredibly frustrating for Mr B. But we arent 
here to punish  businesses.  And to put matters right, Id have asked AXA to apologise for its 
errors and pay a reasonable amount of compensation  to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr B was caused.  Its already apologised to him. And its paid Mr B £250  
to recognise his trouble and upset, which Im satisfied this is a reasonable amount that fairly 
recognises the impact  this all had. Its in line with what I would have suggested had no offer 
been made, and its consistent with our approach in similar scenarios. So, I wont be 
requiring AXA to increase the amount its already paid.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings  to an end what we, in trying  
to resolve his dispute with AXA informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  help Mr B any 
further with this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1439413