K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B has said it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy of 
Mr Bs credit  card and PPI application.  The form has all of Mr Bs details and I think its likely 
it was completed at the meeting. So I think its a reasonable reflection of what  Mr B 
discussed with BoS at the time of sale. On the form Mr B indicated  that he wanted to buy 
Credit Card  Repayment Cover  (the PPI). He didnt  have to do this if he didnt want  the PPI. 
So I think BoS made it clear that Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. Mr B says he 
wouldve got some  sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. But the PPI policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to any sick pay he might  have got. So given what  Mr B has told us about  
his sick pay entitlement  I think he still could have found the policy useful if he couldnt work.  
And he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So he seems 
to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand  BoS has already paid this to Mr B.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1917179