K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Multicorp  Rose Limited 
(Multicorp) to switch the value of his personal pension  into a self-invested  personal pension 
(SIPP). He believes  the switch was unsuitable  because it led to a financial loss. To put 
things right, he wants compensation on the basis he hadnt been advised  to switch and 
remained invested in his previous personal  pension.
Mr A is represented in this complaint by a third party claims management company (CMC). 
background to this complaint
In early 2016 Multicorps representative  met Mr A to review his personal  pension then valued 
at about £18,000. The representative  recorded Mr As circumstances as follows:
he was aged  47 and divorced;
he had three financially dependant children;
he had been  unemployed for 13 years due to ill-health and was in receipt  of State 
benefits of £5,304 per year;
his previous occupation was warehouse manager; 
he had £800  cash  in his current account;
his only private  pension provision was the personal pension  at the centre of this 
complaint  the plan was invested  in a with profits fund and had an ongoing  fund 
charge of 0.875% per year
he was a low risk investor (as determined  by Multicorp); and
his objectives  were  for the value of his pension fund to grow,  to monitor the 
performance of his fund online, to receive ongoing financial advice and to retire  at 67
Multicorp compared the costs of Mr As personal  pension to its preferred SIPP. The outcome 
of this comparison was confirmed to Mr A in a document  titled Initial  Pension  Review  which 
stated:
After analysing your existing pension  funds in comparison  to the [provider] SIPP  I 
can confirm that this plan will need to provide you with returns of 0.19% per annum 
more than your current policy (as detailed  in the previous  tables) in order to provide 
you with the same fund at retirement (based on the current transfer  value and growth 
of 5.4%  per annum).
Multicorps representative then issued a suitability report to Mr A recommending he switch  
the value of his personal pension into its preferred SIPP. The representative  confirmed he 
had discounted  a stakeholder plan as the recommended SIPP had no set up fee, no 
minimum contribution and Mr A would  benefit  from access to Multicorps  portfolios. The 
suitability report included  a tariff of charges  for the SIPP and Multicorps fees,  as follows:
£108 initial SIPP set up fee 
3.50% initial adviser charge 
1.00% annual  adviser charge
Ref: DRN146416220.40% annual  platform charge
0.54% annual  management charge
The suitability report stated the yearly cost comparison  as:
Old scheme  total costs £105.78
New scheme total costs £276.78
Mr A accepted the recommendation. The switch was completed  in July 2016.
In January 2018 the CMC representing Mr A complained  to Multicorp about  the suitability of 
its pension switch advice  in 2016.  The CMC  stated the advice to switch was unsuitable 
because Mr As SIPP was valued  at £8,022.43 less than the notional value of his previous 
personal pension.  
Multicorp rejected this complaint. It was satisfied its recommendation  to switch was suitable  
and that Mr A hadnt suffered a financial loss of £8,022.43, as claimed by the CMC. 
The CMC contacted us. Our adjudicator recommended that this complaint be upheld  for the 
following reasons:
Mr A had a relatively modest  pension fund;
his objective  for improved investment returns could have been  met by switching 
funds within his previous personal pension, if suitable;
he had the flexibility  to retire at his chosen  retirement age with his previous personal 
pension;
his desire  to view the value of his pension fund online wasnt  a suitable  reason for 
switching into higher  charging  product;
the annual charge on the previous  personal pension of 0.875%  was lower than the 
recommended SIPP;
the cost comparison Multicorp provided to Mr A was misleading when it stated that 
the SIPP needed to generate  a return of 0.19%  per year more than his personal 
pension in order to produce the same return  our adjudicator noted this comparison 
failed to take into account both the 3.50% initial adviser charge and 1.00% annual 
adviser charge associated with the switch  into the SIPP;  and
the switch into the SIPP led to increased costs without good  reason
To put things right, our adjudicator recommended Multicorp to:
compare  the investment performance of the recommended SIPP  to the notional  
position Mr A would be in now had he instead invested 50% in the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total  Return  Index and 50% in average fixed rate bonds from the 
outset  and, if this showed a loss, to pay the difference  to Mr A; and
pay to Mr A £600  (plus VAT) to cover  the cost of receiving financial  advice  to 
determine whether he should set up a new pension  plan
Ref: DRN14641623The CMC agreed with our adjudicators recommendation that this complaint be upheld, but 
disagreed with the redress methodology. Instead,  the CMC said redress  should be based on 
the notional position Mr A would have been  in had he remained invested in his previous 
personal pension.
Multicorp didnt agree with our adjudicators  findings. It said, in summary, that:
its recommendation for the SIPP was correct, based on the ongoing service Mr A is 
receiving and his long-term objectives;
since switching, Mr A has had an annual review, where his circumstances were                    
re-evaluated and his risk profile  re-assessed from low to balanced  had he remained 
invested in his previous  personal  pension, this review process wouldnt have been 
carried out since he wasnt receiving  service to ascertain  ongoing suitability; 
the maximum Mr As previous personal pension (not including  terminal bonus) would 
have grown was capped at 2.75%  per year  this effectively means his fund could, at 
best, keep  pace  with inflation  and, at worst, begin to erode;
its recommendation was for the long term and taking a snapshot of the last                  
18 months contradicts the foundations of financial  advice  and long term financial 
planning; 
before bringing this complaint, Mr A had never  expressed dissatisfaction  about its 
recommendation to switch into the SIPP or that he intended to engage the CMC;  and
the basis  of this complaint was originally about a missing  terminal bonus of £8,022.43 
on the switch from the personal  pension into the SIPP which  it had since disproved, 
not that Mr A felt the advice was unsuitable   it was concerned the nature  of this 
complaint had changed and that it wasnt given the opportunity  to investigate  it
Despite its position,  Multicorp  offered  Mr A £300 as a goodwill gesture. And in response to 
our adjudicators recommendation that it pay Mr A £600 (plus  VAT) to cover the cost of 
financial advice, it also offered to switch the value of his SIPP  into a new to a personal  
pension without cost.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr A, rejected Multicorps offer.  Since agreement  couldnt be 
reached, this complaint has been  referred  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and codes of practice;  and what  I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
The basis  of Mr As complaint
Multicorp says the original complaint received from the CMC was about a missing  terminal 
bonus of £8,022.43 on the switch from the personal  pension into the SIPP, not that Mr A felt 
the advice to switch was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN14641624Ive read the initial complaint letter the CMC sent to Multicorp dated 18 December 2017. In 
my view, the CMCs  letter clearly sets out the basis of the complaint to be about the 
suitability of the advice to switch the value of Mr As personal pension into the SIPP (as later 
repeated in our complaint form)  and not specifically  about a missing  terminal  bonus. In that 
complaint letter the CMC stated, amongst other  things:
On review of the claimants  pension we requested from [previous personal pension 
provider] the notional value had he not been  persuaded  to transfer  his pensionthe 
value as 22 September 2017 £25,932.30 including terminal bonus, the value of the 
claimants SIPP as of 27 November 2017is  £17,909.87, that is a total loss since 
the transfer £8,022.43.
In its initial  response to this complaint, Multicorp stated the value of the terminal bonus was 
transferred into the SIPP and wasnt  missing.  So it didnt uphold the complaint.
It seems  to me that Multicorp misinterpreted  the basis of this complaint when it initially  
received it. And that inadvertently latched  onto the figure of £8,022.43 and erroneously  
determined that the complaint was about  a missing terminal bonus  rather than the 
suitability of its advice.  As a result, it failed, at least initially, to deal with the complaint about 
suitability. It was only in response to our adjudicators findings that Multicorp provided its 
position on the suitability of its advice  to switch into the SIPP.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that this complaint has always been  about the 
suitability of Multicorps advice to switch the value of Mr As personal pension  into a SIPP.  
So Im proceeding  on that basis.
The regulators view on pension switching
In December 2008 the regulator issued a report entitled Quality  of advice on pension 
switching. The report summarised the findings  of the regulators thematic  review  of pension 
switching advice and gave examples of good,  compliant  and poor practices it found on the 
quality of advice  given since pensions A-day on 6 April 2006. The regulator  noted, amongst 
others, the following as examples of what it considered  to be unsuitable advice:
A pension incurring  extra product costs  without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where,  for example,  the reason for the switch  was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used;  the reason  was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence  the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown  option, but there was no evidence  that this option was 
needed).
A pension that was more expensive  than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have met the customers needs.
A new pension and the customer had lost benefits from their ceding  pension (for 
example, guaranteed  annuity  rates) without these being explained or justified.
In Mr As case, his previous personal  pension was invested in a with profits  fund and had an 
ongoing fund charge  of 0.875% per year. There was a guarantee attached  to the plan that 
the investment  return will always average 4% per year for money invested before                   
1 July 1994.
Ref: DRN14641625Its not in dispute  that Multicorp told Mr A that the switch into the SIPP would  lead to 
increased costs. But the fact that higher  costs  were disclosed doesnt automatically mean 
the switch should be regarded as suitable; this is because disclosure isnt the same as 
suitability.
Mr A was relying on Multicorp to provide expert advice and act in his best interests.  In my 
view, the way in which  Multicorp disclosed the cost information is confusing  and could have  
misled Mr A. Let me explain why. 
In its document  titled Initial Pension Review, Multicorp stated the proposed  SIPP needed to 
grow by 0.19% per year to provide the same fund at retirement as Mr As personal pension.  
Its suitability report then goes on to state the difference in cost between the personal 
pension and SIPP was £171 per year. I consider this to be misleading because the figure of 
0.19% fails to take into account  both the 3.50% initial adviser  charge and 1.00% annual  
adviser charge,  which would have a material impact on the critical yield required. In reality, 
the critical yield was substantially higher than 0.19% per year. Based on the personal  
pension fund value  of about £18,000,  the initial fees deducted on switching to the SIPP  
amounted to about £738. The ongoing fees,  including the annual adviser charge, would 
amount to about  £335 (after allowing for deduction  of the initial fees). This figure  of £335 is 
higher than the New scheme total costs £276.78 stated by Multicorp.
So while Mr A knew the switch would lead to higher  costs, Im not satisfied Multicorp  placed 
him into an informed position  about  the true cost.
Was the switch into the SIPP suitable?
At the time of Multicorps advice, Mr A had been unemployed for a number of years due to 
ill-health and it seems there  wasnt any real prospect he would resume pension  contributions  
or required the flexibility offered by the SIPP.
Mr As personal pension was valued at about  £18,000. Multicorps rationale for transferring  
was because it was apparently important  to Mr A that he receive ongoing advice  and view 
his pension fund online. From the information provided in the suitability report, theres  no 
evidence the SIPP would  provide better  investment performance or that the provision of 
ongoing advice  would  lead to a better  overall  outcome. Bearing in mind  Mr A was recorded 
as a low risk investor and that the SIPP needed to be invested to reflect  this, there was, in 
my view, limited scope for a better overall  return once the higher costs of the SIPP and 
ongoing advice  were included.
In addition, theres insufficient  evidence that the alternative options of remaining  in the 
personal pension  or switching to a lower cost stakeholder pension were  adequately explored 
before being discounted  by Multicorp. Finally, switching into the SIPP  led to the loss of the 
guarantee attached to the personal pension that the investment return  will always average 
4% per year for money  invested before 1 July 1994.
If it was a genuine desire of Mr As to receive  ongoing advice and to view the value of his 
pension fund online this could have been achieved  at a lower cost.  And he could have taken  
benefits from age 67 under  his previous personal  pension if that was one of his objectives. 
Ref: DRN14641626Taking everything into account,  I find that theres  insufficient justification for recommending 
the switch into the SIPP.  I havent seen evidence of a good reason  for the extra product and 
adviser costs that were  incurred upon  the switch into the SIPP.  As a result,  I cant see how 
this was in Mr As best interests. So Im going to uphold this complaint. 
What would Mr A have done?
In my view, had Multicorp acted in Mr As best interests,  it wouldnt have recommended  the 
switch into the SIPP.  On balance, had suitable advice been provided, I think its more likely  
than not Mr A would  have  remained  invested  in his previous  personal  pension and in the 
same with profits fund to match his low risk profile. I conclude  that compensation should be 
based on this position.
fair compensation
To compensate Mr A fairly,  Multicorp must:
Compare  the performance of Mr As SIPP  with his previous personal pension if that 
had remained  in force and invested in the same with profits  fund. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual  value, theres a loss and compensation  is payable. The 
calculation date should  be made  as at the date of this final decision.  
Since Ive concluded  the recommendation for the SIPP was unsuitable, Multicorp 
must pay compensation direct to Mr A and not into the SIPP. Had compensation 
been paid into a pension plan it would ordinarily provide a taxable  income  at a later 
date. However, Mr A has been unemployed for a number  of years due to                  
ill-health and there doesnt  seem theres any real prospect hell resume  pension 
contributions at a later date. Taking into account his wider financial circumstances, I 
think its more likely  than not Mr A will be a non-taxpayer in retirement. As a result,  
compensation shouldnt be reduced to notionally allow  for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. Therefore if the investment comparison shows  a loss, this 
should be paid in full as a cash  lump sum to Mr A.
Pay Mr A £600 plus VAT (£720 in total) to cover the cost of receiving financial advice 
to determine whether  he should  set up a new pension plan.
fair value
This is what  Mr As previous personal pension  would have been worth  at the calculation date 
if it had remained invested in the same  with profits fund.
actual value
This means  the actual amount of Mr As SIPP at the calculation date. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  My decision is that Multicorp Rose  Limited must calculate  and pay 
compensation to Mr A, as set out above. Multicorp Rose Limited must provide details of its 
calculation in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN14641627Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of this 
final decision  to the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A either to 
accept or reject my final decision before 28 April 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1464162