K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The benefit amount was 125% of the mortgage amount and would have paid out 
for up to 24 months at a time if either  Mr or Mrs H was unable to work  through accident, 
sickness or redundancy. The mortgage  was taken jointly and the policy  covered  both Mr and 
Mrs H for half of the benefit  amount each. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I explain why below.
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware  that they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
they chose to take it. I say that because  I can see that to get the PPI they had to complete a 
separate application form. They  have  signed the mortgage application to signal their interest 
in the PPI and a separate application form to get the cover.  So I cant think  that the PPI was 
added without their knowledge.  There is nothing in the documentation  they signed that 
suggests that getting the mortgage was dependant on them  having to take the PPI. And if 
they hadnt wanted the cover they had no need  to complete the application as they did. So, it 
seems that a discussion took place about  PPI and a choice was made to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  they were eligible  for the policy and werent  affected  by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And they seem to have had a need  for the cover. 
Theyve told us that whilst they enjoyed good sick pay benefits  through  their employers, this 
dropped significantly  after six months. They also told us that they had some  savings  that 
they could have relied on and that Mr H had a policy  that could  have paid out for up to 12 
months in the event  of ill health  preventing him from working. But the PPI policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay or policy payments they would have received, it would have  
reduced their reliance on any savings they had, and would have covered them  for up to 24 
months if they were  unable to work because of accident or sickness. And it would have 
provided the same benefits in the event that they lost a job. So thinking about all of this and 
the potentially  serious  consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on your home, I think 
they wouldve  found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Ref: DRN16204592So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
H.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs H, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1620459