K820x#14complaint
Mr P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that he was mis-
sold life and critical illness cover  by Phoenix Life Limited.
background
Mr P was sold life and critical illness cover on a whole  of life basis in 1998. In 2019 his CMC 
complained that this hadnt been suitable,  which Phoenix Life accepted.
Given what was recorded in the fact find completed at the time, Phoenix Life proposed  that 
Mr P be compensated on the basis that it wouldve been more suitable  for him to have been  
sold to two term policies   a 23-year critical illness policy providing £50,000 to match the 
term of his mortgage and a 31-year life and critical illness policy  for general cover until his 
retirement.
However, a comparison  of the costs showed that the refund due to Mr P would be less than 
the current surrender  value of the actual  policy  he had been sold.  So hed incurred no loss. 
The CMC didnt accept  this. It felt that the terms of the alternative  policies should have been 
based on when  Mr Ps son would have become independent  10 years. So, it referred  the 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator was of the view that there  was nothing  in the documentation from the time of 
the sale to support that Mr P had only wanted cover  for the more  limited 10 year term. The 
adjudicator did question Mr Ps need  for life cover, but Phoenix  Life pointed  to where this 
need had been recorded in the fact find. So the adjudicator accepted  that the proposed  
compensation was reasonable.  
The CMC didnt accept  this, so the matters been  referred to me to review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
While Mr Ps son was noted as a dependant/important person in the fact find there was no 
suggestion that the need for any life or critical  illness  cover  was limited to when he might 
become independent. As such,  I think that if a whole of life policy  was not a suitable means 
by which  to provide  Mr P with cover then the terms identified by Phoenix Life seem 
reasonable.    
And Im satisfied that the fact find showed there was an identified need for life cover as well 
as critical illness cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN18875632Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887563