K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about his home insurer, Society of Lloyds (SOL)  in respect of a claim 
he made to it following a severe storm in 2017.
background
Mr Ds property was damaged on 6 March 2017. He contacted SOL and it appointed a 
contractor to assess the damage.  On 3 May 2017 SOL declined  the claim for roof damage  
and issued a final response to Mr D. It said whilst there had been  a storm the roof had been 
damaged due to wear and tear. It offered £50 compensation  in acknowledgement of its delay 
in making this decision.
Mr D told SOL he thought its assessment of the roof had been flawed but he had temporary 
repairs done and the house  was watertight by 9 June 2017. Just a few days earlier SOL had 
told Mr D that it would  accept liability  for reinstating  the internal dcor damaged by water 
ingress because  Mr D had accidental damage  cover  on his policy.
SOL said it would dry the property but wanted  Mr D to provide estimates for reinstatement. 
In July though,  it agreed to appoint a loss adjuster.  During  this time Mr D had asked  about  
him and his family being given somewhere else to live during the drying  and repairs. SOL 
had agreed to this and made some suggestions  but none were  suitable to Mr D. The loss 
adjuster wasnt persuaded that this was necessary as he felt the home was habitable and 
the offer for the family to stay elsewhere  was withdrawn.
Drying began at the end of July and the loss adjuster approved Mr Ds reinstatement 
estimate. Mr D continued to challenge the decision to leave him and his family  in the house. 
By 11 August there was only one small area in one room that wasnt dry  the plaster 
needed removing  and Mr D had said hed have his contractor do that.
In August and October 2017 SOL issued final responses to Mr D. It said the number of 
people involved in the claim had been  unavoidable. The roof assessment had been 
undertaken adequately.  It felt the claim had just taken time to resolve but accepted  the 
length of time had been frustrating for Mr D. It said it had made a mistake  in offering to 
re-home the family. SOL said it would  pay £300 compensation and also £300  as a 
disturbance allowance for the period the driers were in Mr Ds home.
Mr D complained to us. Our investigator felt that SOL had acted fairly and reasonably.  He 
said Mr D had, effectively, been offered a total of £650 compensation which  is what he would 
have said was due in the circumstances.
Mr D said SOL had added  terms to the contract regarding  the living away from home cover 
which he hadnt been told about  or agreed to. He didnt think  wed considered SOLs  delay in 
appointing a loss adjuster or taken into account how many  people hed had to deal with.
I considered Mr Ds complaint and issued a provisional decision as I felt Mr D needed a 
more detailed response on the issues hed raised.  But I wasnt  minded  to uphold the 
complaint. Following receipt  of my decision SOL said it had no further comment to make and 
Mr D was unhappy. Ive recorded his responses within my findings  below, followed by my 
thoughts on them. But they havent changed my decision.
Ref: DRN13877722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision I said:
decline of the roof damage
There was a long delay at the start of the claim.  And this did delay getting  the internal work  
done. But SOL issued a final response in this respect in May 2017 and Mr D didnt complain 
to this service  until January 2018,  so I cant take this delay into account  when considering  
the upset Mr D has been caused.  Nor can I look in general at the reasonableness of SOLs  
decision to decline liability for this damage.
However, Mr D raised a further issue with SOL about the roof in respect of the inspection it 
had carried out. And SOL issued a further  final response in this respect, so I can consider 
whether its carried out an adequate inspection.
roof inspection
It isnt unusual  for a contractor or even a loss adjuster to assess roof damage from the 
ground. And SOL is right that it is entitled to rely on the expert advice of those  it uses  to 
assess matters.  I note it has agreed to consider  any expert opinion Mr D obtains. I think  
thats fair and reasonable.
internal damage
Once Mr D was told SOL wasnt paying the claim for the roof he arranged straightaway  for 
the roof to be made watertight.  Internal  repairs couldnt start until that was done. But I dont 
think SOL handled this period of the claim very well  it shouldnt  have taken two months for 
driers to be put in place  and Mr D was clearly caused frustration by having to start at the 
beginning every time he called.
That being said an insurer doesnt have to appoint  a loss adjuster  on every claim and given 
the relatively limited  damage that was involved  here (although a number of rooms were 
affected) I can see why it began without doing  so. Mr D was clearly happier  for a time once 
the loss adjuster was appointed and the claim did move more  quickly at that point.
However the drying, and the reinstatement  work, didnt  then start until the school holidays.  
Which I accept  was also frustrating for Mr D with the children  having  less room to move and 
play in. If this stage of the claim had been  handled  properly the drying should have 
completed by the beginning  of July and the reinstatement would then also have been  
completed before the school holidays began.
Mr D said he couldnt understand how it could be possible for an insurer  to make  so many 
mistakes and be allowed  to get away with it. Whilst I understand Mr Ds frustration, I dont 
agree SOL has got away  with anything. We arent here to punish insures or to make them 
change the way they do business and SOL has offered compensation to make  up for what 
went wrong (see below). 
My provisional decision continued:
Ref: DRN13877723staying in the house
The policy offers cover  for the family  to live elsewhere during a claim if the home  cannot  be 
lived in. No terms or exclusions  have been added to the cover  that I can see. I appreciate  
that it was uncomfortable and inconvenient for the family to live in the house  but it could be 
lived in.
But SOL failed Mr D by offering this and then changing its mind. I accept that was frustrating 
for Mr D and I can understand why hes reluctant to accept that SOLs later view, that this 
wasnt required, was right.
The policy doesnt  allow  for any disturbance allowance to be paid. This type of payment  is 
made when  a policyholder, either  remaining in a damaged home  or staying  in a hotel or 
similar, incurs  extra  costs.  As far as I can see here the only extra costs Mr D incurred were 
those associated with the driers. I think £100 a week (£300 total)  would reasonably cover 
those costs and I havent seen evidence to suggest  more is due.
Mr D maintained that the policy  as sold to him didnt highlight any exclusions  and he feels 
SOL must have added things in later. There is no evidence that SOL added exclusions later 
on or changed the policy in anyway. The fact Mr D wasnt told about the alternative 
accommodation term doesnt mean  it wasnt  present from the outset. It would be unusual  
when a policy is sold for all of the clauses to be discussed  such would be impractical.  The 
alternative accommodation wording in question  is a normal part of most  insurance policies of 
this type that Im aware  of. As such SOL didnt need to highlight  it or draw attention to it 
within the policy paperwork, for example  by putting it in a key facts document. I remain of the 
view that SOL did nothing  wrong by relying on the alternative accommodation  policy wording 
when refusing to pay for the family to live elsewhere.  
Mr D said his losses havent  been  properly accounted for. As I said provisionally the only 
additional costs  that Ive seen reference  to were  those in relation to the driers. I havent seen 
anything from Mr D that shows  the £300  paid by SOL didnt reasonably reimburse  his outlay. 
I remain satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that SOLs settlement was fair and reasonable.
I concluded my provisional decision by looking  at the issue of compensation:
Ref: DRN13877724compensation
SOL, for the period from the beginning of May 2017 forward, has paid, or offered £300 
compensation. Having considered what Mr D went through I think thats fair and reasonable. 
I know  he believes this sum is frugal but it isnt meant compensate for all the disruption 
experienced. There is always some upset  that follows a claim and I only award 
compensation to make up for that which has been caused by the insurer either failing  its 
policyholder in some way and/or causing unreasonable  delays.  Ive explained above where I 
think SOL failed Mr D or delayed the claim. For the upset that resulted from those acts Im 
satisfied that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable.  Im not minded to make  it pay 
anything more.
Mr D said his inconvenience and upset havent been properly accounted for. I understand 
how strongly Mr D feels about what happened. But I explained provisionally (as copied  
above) that I can only award compensation in respect of failings of the insurer.  I explained in 
this case, within the body  of my provisional  findings, what  I thought those were. I cant  take 
into account inconvenience and upset that naturally followed as result of the claim  or that 
which occurred from claim issues where  I found SOL had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Having reviewed everything Im still satisfied  that £300 compensation fairly and reasonably  
accounts for the distress and inconvenience  SOL caused  during the period Im able to 
consider here.
my final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint. I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387772