K821x#15Complaint
Mr A had an AA personal loan (provided by Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc). He made a lump  sum 
payment intended  to clear the loan,  but this was not administered correctly meaning interest 
charges were incurred  and a mark placed on his credit file. He states he suffered a great 
deal of stress as a result.
Background
Mr A took out a £10,000 personal  loan from AA loans in June 2018. In February  2019  he 
wanted to pay off the loan so called to request a full early settlement (FES) quote which was 
provided to him. This quote expired  30 March  2019.  On 28 March  2019 Mr A called again to 
obtain a new FES and an agent provided a new quote and said he had a week  to make  this 
payment. Mr A made a payment of this amount  on 4 April 2019 believing  this settled his 
account.
When later in April 2019  a direct debit  was taken for the monthly payment Mr A contacted 
AA Loans. The agent explained that as the lump sum payment had been made after the 
expiry of the original quote, it was treated as an over payment and not a final settlement. It 
was agreed between AA Loans and Mr A at this point that the payment would be considered 
as a FES,  meaning  the loan was settled and the interest applied  to the account would be 
repaid. Mr A then cancelled his direct debit. AA Loans attempted  to take a further monthly 
payment in May 2019, but this was returned  as a failed direct  debit.
AA Loans has apologised  for the level of service  they provided to Mr A and acknowledged  
that it was not reflective of the high standards of service they aim to provide. On 
31 May 2019 they repaid  the interest they had charged on the account  and refunded the 
credit on his account on 3 Jun 2019. This left a nil balance.  The bank arranged for Experian 
(the credit reference  agency they use) to remove any late payment markers  placed on his 
credit file between March and June 2019.  They offered him £50 compensation in recognition  
of the trouble and upset caused. This offer was refused  by Mr A who asked us to investigate 
the complaint.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr A had been put back into his original financial 
position so nothing more was required in that regard. However, she did not consider £50 
sufficient compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience caused,  suggesting  that a fair 
amount would be £200 taking into account  the stress that exacerbated what was already a 
very difficult time for Mr A, following a bereavement. This was accepted  by Mr A but rejected 
by AA Loans, so the matter has been passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The facts  around what has happened,  
and the subsequent actions taken by AA Loans  to put Mr A back in his original financial 
position are not in dispute. What is still in dispute is how much  compensation should be paid 
to Mr A for his trouble  and upset.
Mr A followed the required process  in order to settle  his loan early. Having looked at the call 
logs and read AA Loans final response  letter to his complaint, it is my opinion that an agent  
of AA Loans gave him misleading  information  on 28 March 2019. This led to Mr A making his 
lump sum payment later than required believing it would settle his account.
Ref: DRN16787462It is my opinion  that Mr As extra  stress started when he noticed the direct debit payment 
leave his account later in April. He contacted AA Loans who apparently  resolved the matter  
by agreeing that the lump-sum payment should have been considered a FES and that any 
interest incurred would be repaid.
Despite this an attempt  was made  to take a further direct debit payment in May 2019, but 
this failed as Mr A had cancelled  it with his bank. This resulted in a failed payment marker  
being added to his credit file. AA Loans  has corrected that position and acknowledged that it 
should have done better  in its dealings with Mr A. I believe this poor service,  on top of the 
misleading information given on 28 March 2019, has caused him unnecessary trouble and 
upset.
I have looked  at the course of events  which led to the complaint, the length of time they 
occurred over, the number of calls Mr A had to make and the time it has taken to return  him 
to his original financial  position. If the only issue here was the misleading  information he 
received on 28 March, then I might  be inclined to agree with AA Loans  that £50 would be 
appropriate.
However, he experienced more problems with AA Loans collecting  direct debits despite 
more than once  being made aware of the situation. It is this additional  failure that has 
caused Mr A more trouble and upset, for which he should receive  further compensation. 
Taking all this into account I consider the investigators suggestion of £200 compensation to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I direct  
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to pay Mr A £200 for his material distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1678746