K821x#15Complaint
Mr E and Mrs J complain  that Everyday Lending  Limited acted irresponsibly by lending them 
money in September 2017.
Background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated February 2020   a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Everyday Lending was irresponsible  
when it approved Mr E and Mrs Js loan.  I asked everyone to send me any further  comments 
and information  before I reached a final decision.  Neither party responded to my provisional 
decision.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any new evidence, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Es and Mrs Js 
complaint. 
To put things right, I recommend that Everyday Lending remove  any adverse entries relating 
to this loan from Mr Es and Mrs Js credit files.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18687532Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr E and Mrs J complain  that Everyday Lending Limited acted irresponsibly by lending them  money  in 
September 2017.
Background
In September 2017, Mr E and Mrs J applied for a loan. Everyday Lending lent them  £2,500 to be 
repaid over three years  at £216.24 a month. The total amount repayable over the full term of the loan 
was £7,784.64.  But in February 2018 Mr E and Mrs J stopped making the contractual  payments.
Mr E and Mrs J think Everyday Lending shouldnt have lent them  the money.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, and thought Mr E and Mrs Js complaint about  the loan they 
took out in September 2017 should be upheld. She didnt think Everyday Lending  had carried  out 
sufficient checks before deciding to lend Mr E and Mrs J the money. And she thought  that had 
Everyday Lending done more, it would have realised the loan repayments werent sustainable.  So, 
she recommended that Everyday Lending reduce their liability  to the capital sum borrowed and also 
recommended Everyday Lending remove any negative  information about  the loan from Mr Es and 
Mrs Js credit file.
Everyday Lending didnt respond  to the adjudicators  assessment letter.  The complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr E and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
When bringing their complaint to our service, Mr E and Mrs J specifically complained about  the loan 
theyd taken out in September 2017. In their submissions to our service, they explained  that they 
shouldnt have been approved for the loan as they were unable to afford the loan repayments 
alongside their other credit commitments and living costs.  While Ive noted that Mr E had successfully 
applied for a previous  loan with Everyday Lending in May 2017, Mr E hasnt raised  any concerns 
about that sale.  So I havent considered that loan in my review of Mr E and Mrs Js complaint.  
As Everyday  Lending was entering a regulated credit  agreement, it needed  to assess Mr Es and Mrs 
Js creditworthiness. This included the potential for the commitments  under the agreement  to 
adversely impact Mr Es and Mrs Js financial  situation, and the ability for Mr E and Mrs J to make 
repayments as they fell due over the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied  to Everyday Lending at the time said it needed  to make 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing Mr Es and Mrs Js ability to meet the monthly 
repayments in a sustainable  manner without Mr E and Mrs J incurring  financial difficulties  or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. This included Mr E and Mrs J being  able to make the 
payments on time while  meeting their other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to 
meet the monthly loan repayments.
The checks Everyday Lending did, had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan.  
And what is proportionate will depend on a number  of factors including things like the consumers 
financial history, their financial situation at the time of the loan application, along with other factors 
such as the amount borrowed, type of loan and the cost of the credit being  sought.
Ref: DRN18687533In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough in 
situations where:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when Everyday Lending  was in the process of approving the loan for Mr E and Mrs J. And I've thought  
carefully about what checks  Everyday Lending says it did and whether  those were  proportionate in 
the circumstances.
Having considered  the available  information, Im not satisfied the Everyday Loans carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing Mr E and Mrs Js ability to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable manner. Ill explain why.
I think  its worth noting  that both Mr Es and Mrs Js income was solely comprised  of state benefits,  
which included disability benefits. They were therefore  not working at the time of the sale and their 
potential to increase their earnings each month  was limited. Its also worth noting that Mr E didnt 
qualify for this loan in his sole capacity. Because of this, Everyday  Lending requested that Mrs J be 
added to the loan in order for the loan application to be approved.   
Everyday Lending has sent us copies of the affordability assessments it completed for both Mr E and 
Mrs J during the loan application process. These show that Mr Es monthly income  was noted as 
£902.07 and Mrs Js monthly  income  was noted as £1,021.02. These also show that their monthly 
creditor repayments were  noted as £203.25 for Mr E, and £100.64 for Mrs J. According to the 
affordability assessments  carried out, Mr E would have been  left with a disposable  income of £77.18 a 
month, and Mrs J would have left with £104.26 a month.
Everyday Lending has provided  us with copies of Mr E and Mrs Js bank  statements for the months 
preceding the sale of the loan  including  those for August 2017. A review of Mr E and Mrs Js bank 
statements for August  2017, shows  both Mr E and Mrs Js actual monthly income  were  less than the 
figures Everyday Lending used when carrying  out the affordability assessments. They  also show that 
Mr E and Mrs Js monthly outgoings were  considerably more than the figure Everyday Lending  used 
when calculating Mr E and Mrs Js remaining disposable  income. 
According to the bank statements,  Mr Es actual  income in the month preceding  the sale was 
£832.68, which is £69.39  less than the amount  used  in Mr Es affordability assessment. Had this 
figure been used when carrying out the affordability checks, this would have left Mr E with less than 
£10 a month disposable  income.
Similarly, the figure used for Mrs Js income, also appears  to be incorrect. Her statements  for both her 
bank accounts show that her monthly income  was £927.68, which is £93.34 less than the amount  
relied on by Everyday Lending. Had this figure been used,  Mrs J would have been left with around 
£10 a month disposable  income.
Ref: DRN18687534In addition to this, Ive noted that Everyday Lending used a figure of £203.25 to show the amount 
Mr E wouldve  owed  each month to his existing  creditors. But his bank statements,  show that Mr E 
was paying at least £224.10  a month to repay his credit cards and a loan he had with another 
provider. Hed also transferred an amount  of £375.50  into a second account  he held, using the 
reference [Mr E] Bills, which suggests he had other  outgoings which werent  taken into account  in 
the affordability assessment. I accept that its hard to estimate what Mr Es actual expenses would 
have been, partly because his bank statements show that Mr Es family  relied on him to help pay their 
bills. But, I do think that his bank statements  show that Mr E had a number  of other financial 
commitments, which  Everyday Lending ought to have taken into account  when carrying  out the 
affordability checks.
With regards to Mrs J, I can see the affordability assessment  shows that Everyday Lending used a 
figure of £100.64 to represent her monthly creditor repayments. It also estimated her living  expenses 
to be £500 per month. Looking  at her bank statements for August 2017, I can see that she paid 
£229.60 towards two payday loans and also transferred  an amount of £648.48 to Mr E using the 
reference Bill payment to [Mr E]. This suggests the figures  Everyday Loans used in its affordability 
assessment werent right and were considerably lower than what  Mrs Js actual  monthly  expenses  
would have been.
Finally, a review  of Mrs Js bank  statements  has revealed that she had successfully applied for a 
payday loan in August  2017. The statements also show she had two other payday loans which she 
was in the process  of paying off. I can also see that on six separate occasions  in August 2017, Mrs 
Js bank  account balance was reduced to £0.01, leaving her with little to no disposable  income for 
days at a time. Given Mrs J was relying on payday loans to help supplement her income and meet  her 
monthly expenses, I think this shows she wasnt in a position to cover the loan repayments in her own 
right, should Mr E fall on hard times.
For the reasons  set out above, I think Everyday Lending ought to have known that their assessment 
of Mr Es and Mrs Js financial situation wasnt a true reflection of their actual financial situation and 
that the loan repayments werent sustainable in the circumstances.
So Ive gone on to consider what would  have  happened  had Everyday Lending carried  out further 
checks. In the circumstances  of this complaint, I think that had Everyday Lending carried  out further 
affordability checks using the available  information, I think its unlikely that it would have thought  the 
lending to Mr E and Mrs J was sustainable.
Taking everything Ive said into account, I think  the information Ive seen gives a strong impression 
that Mr E and Mrs J were struggling  to fund their basic day-to-day expenses   despite their regular 
benefit payments. Based on their actual outgoings, this loan would have left them with little to no 
disposable income  each  month, which would have left them in a difficult situation  in the event they 
needed to cover any additional costs which  their household may incur. And so I think  its more likely 
than not that Mr E and Mrs J would need to borrow  again  during the lifetime of this loan in order to 
meet their monthly  repayments.  
For these  reasons, I dont think Mr E and Mrs J were going to be able to repay  this loan in a 
sustainable manner. I think that if Everyday  Lending  had made  proportionate checks  it would have 
realised this. And I think Mr E and Mrs J have lost out because of what Everyday Lending did wrong.
putting things  right
As Im satisfied that Everyday Lending was irresponsible when it approved Mr Es and Mrs Js loan, 
Ive thought about what it should do to put things right.
Mr E and Mrs J have told us that they entered into a debt relief order in 2018.  The moratorium period 
for their debt relief orders has since come to an end, which means theres  no outstanding  balance to 
pay on the loan. 
Ref: DRN18687535In total, Mr E and Mrs J paid a total of £864.96  towards the loan. Given  the capital amount of the loan 
was £2,500  and theyve had the benefit of this money, I dont think  it would be fair or appropriate for 
me to ask Everyday Lending  to refund them  any of the interest  and charges  they paid up until the 
point they defaulted on their loan.
So, to put things right, I recommend that Everyday Lending remove any adverse  entries relating to 
this loan from Mr Es and Mrs Js credit file.
My provisional decision
I currently intend on upholding Mr Es and Mrs Js complaint. 
To put things right, Everyday Lending Limited  should  remove any adverse entries  relating to this loan 
from Mr Es and Mrs Js credit file.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868753