K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Mr D has complained that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL)  provided him with a 
loan that he wasnt  able to afford. 
background
In April 2018 ELL provided  Mr D a loan for £3,000 repayable over two years.  It was a high 
interest loan with an interest rate of 127.1% APR. The total charge for the credit  was 
£3,436.80, which meant  the total amount repayable by Mr D for the £3,000 he was 
borrowing was £6,436.80. The monthly repayments were £268.20. His net of tax salary was 
approximately £3,564 a month. He had several pay day loans. In addition,  he had nine credit 
cards with a total outstanding debt of approximately £23,000. He also had four unsecured  
loans and the total level of his debt was in excess of £29,000. 
In its response to Mr Ds complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out to repay payday loans. 
It also explained that it carried out suitability  and affordability checks  on all loan applications. 
It had found no evidence to suggest  that any necessary checks hadnt  been carried  out. 
As part of that process, it said a credit  search  was performed to establish  his credit history  
and any outstanding debt. It was satisfied  from the affordability calculation carried  out which 
was based on the information provided  by Mr D, that the loan was affordable. 
It also said it had made  an allowance for £500 in respect of rent as this was what was 
recorded on Mr Ds bank  statements.  It allowed £732 a month for general living expenses,  
and it took into account all creditor repayments.  It went on to say that if the funds had been  
utilised as intended, his disposable income went from -£171.90 per month to +£531.55  per 
month. Information about his debts and gambling  were taken into account  as well. 
Mr Ds concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  ELL should have 
realised Mr D was unlikely  to have been  able to sustainably repay the loan. This was 
because the bank statements showed  he was spending a significant  amount of his monthly 
income on gambling in the three  months prior to taking out the loan. 
ELL didnt  agree with the adjudicators assessment. It thought the assessment should have 
been based on the information it had obtained  at the time. It had questioned Mr D about his 
gambling and based on his response  that which  it was happy with, it didnt question him 
about what he had told it. 
ELL went on to say it believed the loan was sustainable based on the checks conducted  at 
the time the loan was agreed. And it said that by consolidating the debt which was the stated 
purpose of the loan,  Mr D would reduce  his monthly loan repayments from 70% of his salary  
to 51%.  
As ELL didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, the case  was passed  to me for 
review. I issued my provisional  decision explaining  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint on 16 February 2021.
Mr D didnt agree with my decision. In summary  he said:
He was a gambling addict  who was in financial hardship when the loan was taken 
out. 
Ref: DRN11256532He had debts  amounting to £70,000 as a result of his gambling.
He used this money  for gambling and told ELL about his gambling  habit. It shouldnt 
have provided  him with this loan. 
He was now in a debt management  plan. 
He agreed that ELL had carried out suitable  checks, but they failed to act on the 
findings and ignored  red flags.
It shouldnt have  concluded that he could  sustainably  have repaid the loan. 
He agreed with the adjudicators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ds complaint. Ive also thought  very 
carefully about what Mr D has said in response  to my provisional decision. Having done  so, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Mr D fairly 
and reasonably when it provided  him with the loan.
1)Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr D could afford to repay the loan he was wanting to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment.  
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  ELL carried out as part of its affordability assessment, needed  to be borrower  
focussed. What I mean  by this is that the checks had to assess  whether paying the loan 
back would  cause Mr D any difficulties or have any adverse consequences for him. It would 
also need to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the term of 
the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being 
charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
Ref: DRN11256533And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr D had a low income.  This would reflect  that it could be more  difficult  for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr Ds ability to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether ELL completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay  his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr D was applying for a high-cost credit product which had an APR of 127.1.%.
Mr D was on a relatively  high income as his net of tax salary  was over £3,500 a month.
The monthly loan repayment was relatively  small, particularly when viewed  as a 
percentage of Mr Ds monthly  income  (around  7.5%); and even more  so considering that 
he would  need to allocate this proportion of his income towards  his loan repayments for 
two years.
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr D borrowed.  He was using the loan to repay other  debts, which suggests he 
was already struggling with existing credit.
ELL has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide  Mr D with the loan. 
And this seems to be based on carrying out a credit check, reviewing his March and April 
2018 bank statements and carrying out an affordability assessment based on this. It said it 
made a deduction  £500  of his monthly  income  for rent, £732 for living expenses and bills 
and payments of approximately £2,504  a month  to creditors. 
It recorded a schedule of his loans.  Its records also show that it discussed Mr Ds gambling 
and various pay day loan activity. Based on its assessment, ELL says that it thought Mr Ds 
loan was affordable  for him. 
It seems  to me from the information ELL gathered about Mr D, that he was quite clearly in a 
very difficult financial position. His bank statements show  his current  account  was 
significantly overdrawn. And as Ive summarised  above, he had significant levels of debt and 
approximately 70% of his monthly income  was servicing that debt.
Mr D was borrowing £3,000 over a relatively short period of time. From what  Ive seen in this 
particular case,  I think  that ELL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr Ds 
financial position. I say this because it looked  at 2 months bank statements and carried out a 
credit check,  which didnt record any defaults. Using the information it had about Mr D, it 
appears that it carried out an affordability assessment taking into account  his income and 
outgoings. 
Ref: DRN11256534The assessment included an analysis of all of his outstanding debts. ELL also discussed 
with Mr D why he wanted to take out the loan. And in the context of his salary and the 
amount being  borrowed, I think the checks it carried out were sufficient in all of the 
circumstances of this particular case.
I do have concerns, that with the level of debt Mr D had, he was intending to borrow more  
money. ELLs analysis  showed that Mr D had had outstanding debts amounting  to 
approximately £52,000. And this level of debt and the proportion of Mr Ds monthly income  
which was being  expended on servicing  that debt,  should have raised concerns with ELL as 
to whether it was appropriate to provide him with more credit. 
Ive also noted  that ELLs case file shows a discussion  about  Mr Ds gambling.  He is 
recorded as saying that he hadnt realised he had spent the amount recorded and that he 
didnt gamble very often. So, I accept that ELL would have been aware from what Mr D told 
it and his bank  statements  that he did gamble. Ive thought about what Mr D has told us 
about his gambling.  And I acknowledge that from what hes told us, this has caused him 
significant financial problems. 
 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. 
And that ELL did carry out an appropriate  affordability assessment on Mr D. I say this 
because ELLs customer  review document shows that the purpose  of the loan was for debt 
consolidation. And another  record from the file provided by ELL, shows  the purpose  of the 
loan as paying off two of his pay day loans and to clear  the arrears  on one of his other  loans. 
In addition, there are screenshots from Mr Ds pay day lending accounts  which  record  the 
outstanding balances on the loans  he intended to consolidate. It also appears that ELL 
reviewed Mr Ds credit file, identifying his debts and the monthly payments he was making to 
his creditors.
ELLs file also records  it carried out an affordability assessment. Mr Ds financial position 
prior to taking out the loan,  showed that he was making repayments  of approximately £2,500 
a month  to his creditors. When allowances for rent and day to day living expenses were  
taken into account,  he had no disposable  income each month. And Im satisfied that this is 
supported by his bank  statements showing his current account as being overdrawn. 
Did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
Notwithstanding the above, I also need to consider what the impact of this additional  
borrowing would be on Mr Ds financial position, and in that context, the appropriateness of 
ELLs lending  decision.
So, with this financial background  for Mr D in mind, Ive thought very carefully about the 
lending decision ELL made to offer him the loan, and the impact  on Mr D of ELL providing 
him with this additional  credit.
 
The analysis ELL carried out, could suggest  that further lending shouldnt  have been made 
to Mr D. And as Ive explained above,  I do have concerns given the financial position Mr D 
found himself in; that ELL provided  him with additional credit. And debt consolidation which 
was the recorded objective  in this case, is often an indicator that someone  such as Mr D isnt 
managing their finances in an effective or sustainable manner. 
In addition, Ive considered what  Mr D has told us about the financial difficulties he was in 
and the impact on him of his gambling.  I do understand that Mr D was in a very difficult  
Ref: DRN11256535position financially  at the time he was provided  with this loan. But, given the information ELL 
had about Mr Ds gambling, I dont think this necessarily indicated in this case, that he had a 
gambling addiction.  Or, that although there was evidence of gambling, that this meant in this 
particular case,  that it was wrong  of ELL to have provided Mr D with the loan. 
I say this because  I think  ELL needed to make an assessment  about  whether Mr D could 
sustainably afford to repay the loan based on all of the information it had. Mr D was making 
monthly repayments of £971 in respect  of the two payday loans that were going  to be repaid  
from the proceeds of the loan. His monthly  repayments for the proposed  loan were  £268.20  
a month. By consolidating the two payday  loans, he would be approximately £703 a month 
better off, taking into account  the new monthly  loan repayment. And as a result, the 
percentage of his income being  utilised to pay his creditors would reduce from 70% to 51%. 
This would leave him with surplus  income each month which  doesnt appear  to have been 
the case prior to taking  out the loan. 
I acknowledge what Mr D has said about  our adjudicators assessment, but Ive reached  a 
different conclusion. I think Mr D would have been  in a better financial position after 
consolidating the two pay day loans, even after taking into account the new loan and 
repayments he was taking on. The analysis  shows  that as a result  of consolidating the loans  
with the additional lending  from ELL, this would have impacted on him in a significantly 
positive way. This is because it would leave  Mr D with an income surplus each  month. And I 
dont think the cash withdrawals that could be seen on his statements were  necessarily 
indicative of a gambling addiction in this case. So, as a result  I dont  agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions. 
Mr D has told us that he used the proceeds from the loan for gambling, not to repay his two 
pay day loans. But I cant see anything which suggests that ELL shouldnt  have relied on 
what Mr D appears  to have told it. The evidence provided by Mr D to ELL about  the loans he 
was planning  to consolidate,  supports what he told ELL, that he was intending to use the 
proceeds of this loan to repay existing debt.  And if he had, he would as Ive explained, have 
been in a much better financial position  than he was before taking out the loan.  
Therefore, whilst I have concerns about  Mr D taking on further borrowing given his difficult 
financial position; for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the loan was 
affordable for Mr D. So, I dont think it was wrong  for ELL in this particular case, to provide 
him with the loan,  or that it acted unfairly  towards  him in some other way. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint.  Under  the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before  29 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1125653