K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited  (AA) unfairly 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy.
Reference to AA includes its agents.
background
Mr B took out a policy with AA. It later said that it had learned  about a windscreen claim he 
hadn't told it about. It said he should  pay an additional premium  of around £16. Mr B didn't 
pay the additional premium and AA cancelled his policy.
Mr B brought his complaint about that to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
7 August 2019.  For ease I've copied  my provisional  findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it.  
did Mr B make a mistake  when applying for the policy?
Mr B initially  applied for the policy through a comparison website. That website  asks:
Have you had any accidents claims or losses in the past 5 years  no matter  who was at fault 
or if a claim was made?
Mr B answered no to that question because he said he didn't realise he had to declare  a 
windscreen claim. But there was a claim made against his policy  because  of damage to his 
car. And its most likely he had to pay an excess.  So he made a claim and in order  to answer 
the question accurately I think  he should  have answered yes to it. If hed done so AA would 
have quoted him a higher  premium. It follows that I think Mr B made a mistake when 
applying for the policy.
assessing risk
Mr Bs said that he can't see how making  a windscreen claim changes the risks he presents 
as a driver. And he doesn't think it's fair that some  insurers will use a windscreen claim as a 
factor when assessing the risk its policyholders present. We're not the industry regulator. 
That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge  for its policies. Neither  
is it my role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account  when assessing the risk 
its policyholders  present.  Different insurers will have different views on what  presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement  and not 
something we would usually think its fair to interfere with. So if AA thinks drivers whove had 
a windscreen claim pose a greater  risk than drivers who haven't,  its entitled to charge a 
higher premium. And as long as it does this consistently, that is its not singling consumers 
out, I don't think thats unfair.
I can understand Mr B might not agree with AAs assessment of risk. And this isn't the 
approach of all insurers.  But this doesn't mean that AAs done anything wrong. Its entitled to 
decide its rating factors (what it bases  its premiums on) in response to its assessment of the 
risks it covers  and the market it operates in. And AAs confirmed that it would consider 
Ref: DRN10420982customers with a similar claim history as presenting  a similar  risk. And, as Ive said above it's 
not for me to tell AA how it should go about that risk assessment.  So I don't think  its 
approach to rating risk is unfair. 
AAs correspondence  
When AA learned about a windscreen claim it sent Mr B an email. That email said it had 
finalised the policy but went on to say that, because of the windscreen claim, hed have to 
pay an additional premium. I think its worth commenting that Id usually say that I don't find it 
fair for an insurer to simply  impose  an additional premium and that it should offer the 
consumer the option of cancelling  the policy themselves. But in this case  Mr B has confirmed 
that if hed noticed AA was asking for a further £16 he would have paid it. So I don't think 
AAs oversight in not giving him the option  to cancel the policy  himself  at the outset  has put 
him into a worse position particularly as Mr B didn't actually read the rest of the email.
Mr B confirmed that he didn't read AAs email beyond where it said the policy  was finalised. 
So he didn't  know  he had to pay an additional  premium. I do have some sympathy with Mr B 
here, on the one hand AA have told him that his policy was finalised but the email then goes 
on to explain that he needs to pay an additional  premium if he wants  to keep it in place.  So I 
think its wording could  have been  better. But I dont find it was so misleading that it was 
reasonable for Mr B not to keep reading it. 
I understand Mr B read the email from his phone. But I don't think that means he shouldn't  
have read it all. Its fairly brief and would have  taken less than a minute  to read.  I appreciate 
that use of the term finalised  certainly gives the impression that his policy was in place but it 
also clearly included extra information below that for a reason. So I would have expected  
Mr B to read that. And, if hed done  so hed have realised that AA was asking him to pay an 
additional premium.  I don't think it was AAs fault that he didn't  read that.
Mr Bs added that he didn't receive  AAs letter, posted to his home address, reminding him 
he had to pay the additional premium  and warning him that it might cancel his policy if he 
didn't do so. He thinks AA should  have used other means to contact him other than post.  
While its very unfortunate that Mr B didn't receive  the reminder letter I don't think AA was 
under any obligation to use other methods to contact him. AA had already sent him an email  
telling him he needed  to pay an additional  premium, but he hadn't  responded to that. So I 
don't think  that makes  email a more  reliable means  of contact. And Mr Bs policy says that in 
a situation where  AA might cancel his policy it would  send a written warning letter to his last 
known address. So I don't think it was unreasonable that it did what his policy says it will do 
and sent the next letter  warning of cancellation  by post. 
Mr Bs also said that prior to AA cancelling his policy hed rang it about  a different matter and 
it didn't warn  him there was an issue with this policy during that call. I've listed  to the 
recording of that call. Its less than three minutes long. AA did confirm that Mr B had two 
policies with it. But Mr B was clear that he was ringing to cancel another policy  for a different 
car. He didn't  ask AA anything  about the status  of this policy and he didn't give it any cause 
to access its details. So I don't think it did anything wrong in not discussing the potential  
policy cancellation during that call.   
developments
Mr B wasn't happy with my provisional decision.  Amongst other things he said the use of the 
word finalised  should never be put before a request for money and that anything that follows 
Ref: DRN10420983it shouldn't overrule  that. He said that having made an initial payment for the policy he feels 
he should have  been afforded further protection. And he asked what  the situation might 
have been if hed paid by direct debit. He repeated that he believed that all insurers  should 
call a customer before cancelling a policy. He said the penalties for driving  while uninsured 
can be severe. And hes repeated that he doesnt think that AA did enough to warn  him that 
his policy  might be cancelled. He said hes found the situation frustrating and its impacted 
on him as he has to declare the cancellation when applying for other  policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to change 
my provisional findings. 
As I said in my provisional decision I think AA could have worded its email to Mr B better. AA 
has told us that it used the word finalised to confirm that it had received proof of Mr Bs no 
claims discount (NCD) and it was that matter  relating to the NCD, which had been finalised. 
And I think thats reasonable. So I don't agree with Mr B that the word  finalised  shouldnt  
ever be used before a request  for money. And, while the wording could have been clearer,  I 
dont think its reasonable to expect that AAs inclusion of the word finalised should mean 
that Mr B should ignore anything that followed it. And I don't think that what  followed 
overruled the use of the term finalised, as UKI intended that to refer to NCD. Also, if Mr B 
had carried on reading, something that would have taken him seconds, he would have 
realised he had an additional sum to pay and would have done  so. But he didn't do that. And 
I dont think it was AAs fault that he decided not to read the rest of the message.
Mr Bs said that he thinks insurers should call their policyholders before they cancel a policy. 
And while I can see how that might be helpful  where  a consumers available  to take the call I 
dont think theres any requirement for insurers to do that. So I dont find it unfair that AA 
didnt do so in these circumstances. Instead it followed the procedures set out in Mr Bs 
policy and wrote to him at his home address  to let him know  his policy  would be cancelled. 
Mr B says he didnt receive  those  letters promptly. But I dont think  thats because of 
anything AA did or didnt do. 
I understand Mr B had already  paid a significant  sum towards the full cost of his premium.  
But he didnt  respond to AAs correspondence about  the additional sums it said he had to 
pay. So AA was again acting within the terms of Mr Bs policy  when it said that if he didnt 
make payment it would  cancel it. Mr Bs asked what the situation would be if hed been 
paying by direct debit.  Its possible that if that had been the case  AA might have taken a 
different approach. But Mr B wasnt paying by direct debit so those circumstances dont  
apply to him.
Im aware that had Mr B been prosecuted  for driving  without insurance the effect  on him 
could have been fairly dramatic. But that didnt happen. And as Ive already said,  AA notified 
him of the cancellation using the method  set out in Mr Bs policy. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong  to follow that practice.  
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that Im not upholding  his complaint because of the 
impact to him from the cancellation  because of a relatively small sum of money  owing. But 
the situation arose because Mr B chose not to read AAs correspondence. If hed done so he 
wouldnt have found himself in this position.  And I dont think  that was AAs fault. And in 
every case  Im required to come to my conclusions based on what I think  is fair and 
Ref: DRN10420984reasonable based upon the specific  circumstances  of that case,  and as thats  the process 
Ive applied in Mr Bs case.
Mr Bs also asked how long he would need  to declare the cancellation for. But that would 
depend on the question the insurers ask. Consumers are required to take reasonable care to 
answer an insurers question accurately. So whether or not Mr B needs to declare the 
cancellation will depend  on the question asked. For example, one insurer  might  ask if hes 
ever had a policy  cancelled but another  might ask if hes had a policy cancelled in the last 
year. So the answer Mr B should give will depend  on the question asked.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1042098