K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK plc recorded a CIFAS marker against  her name 
and wont remove it. CIFAS is a fraud alert service.
background
Miss S has explained that someone  from her school approached her and persuaded her to 
let him have  her bank  card and other details. He said that he could legally add money to her 
account. 
That person  then used Miss Ss account  to receive  funds  that had been transferred  from 
someone elses account without that account holders authority. The bank that had sent the 
money alerted  Barclays to what had happened  and Barclays closed Miss Ss account; it 
logged a CIFAS marker against her name.  Miss S says that, nearly  three years later, shes  
unable to open a bank  account with a different provider; this is preventing  her from 
progressing with her education and career. She asked Barclays  to arrange for the removal of 
the marker.  
Barclays refused to remove the marker.  It said it was obliged  to report  events  such as this. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service  and one of investigators  considered  it. She 
agreed however  that Barclays was entitled to act as it had. Miss S didnt agree and asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to the same  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
It seems  that Miss S initially thought she could make some money from letting someone else 
use her account, although  she says she didnt  in fact gain financially from what happened.  
Instead, shes been left without a bank account and without  any realistic prospect of 
obtaining one. I can understand that this must  have had a huge impact on her; I accept too 
that she was very young at the time and may well have been  nave in allowing someone else 
access to her account. 
As the investigator  explained, a CIFAS marker  shouldnt be logged unless the financial 
business making the report has good reason to think it might suffer loss or it believes it has 
grounds to report the matter to the police.  I think that threshold  was reached here.  
It may well be true that Miss S hasnt personally benefited from these events, but she did 
allow her account  to be used for fraudulent purposes. Again, she may not have  known 
exactly how her account would be used, but I think she must have been aware  even at her 
age at the time  that someone asking for access to her bank account was unlikely to be 
acting entirely innocently. The account terms expressly said that Miss S should keep cards 
and PINs  safe and that Barclays could close the account immediately if she allowed anyone 
else to use it for fraudulent purposes. 
Fraud alert services such as CIFAS rely on members (including  Barclays) reporting incidents 
such as this, so that other members can identify and manage risks. That is, there are mutual 
obligations and benefits to members,  and I believe Barclays was correct  to register  Miss Ss 
information with CIFAS;  it wouldnt be fair to ask it now to remove  that information.  I 
Ref: DRN16550422appreciate that this is likely to cause Miss S continuing difficulty, but I dont believe I can 
properly hold Barclays responsible for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1655042