K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank  Plc have charged  him interest  on his credit  card when he 
was in an interest free period.
Background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2020, explaining the background to the complaint, 
and why I thought it shouldnt  be upheld.
Mr A tells us he signed up to a 20 month  interest  free credit card with TSB in 
November 2017.  He says he started receiving interest charges on his account from 
February 2018 and didnt  believe this to be correct because of the interest free period he 
believed hed signed up to.
Mr A attempted to complain to TSB but didnt receive a response to his complaint  only 
letters to say they were  sorry  they hadnt  replied. So, he contacted us to complain in 
September 2018. 
After we contacted  TSB to explain we had the complaint, they got in touch with us. They 
explained they didnt uphold Mr As case,  and this is because the interest  free offer was for 
up to 20 months. They  explained  there were three different tiers available in this offer,  and 
Mr A was given the offer of three  months interest free. They also provided  internal screen  
shots to demonstrate this. And they provided Mr As December 2017  statement, which  said 
his promotional rate was going to expire from 31 January 2018.
Our investigator considered all this information and felt the complaint should be upheld. He 
said he accepted  TSB had demonstrated  their interest free offer was for up to 20 months.  
But felt it was important  each customer was told long this offer would last for  and he felt 
TSB hadnt properly demonstrated this.
Mr A accepted this, but TSB didnt. They said theyd demonstrated evidence  that the interest 
free offer for Mr A was only three months   and theyd  provided statements showing he was 
told his interest free period  would come to an end. So, the complaints been  passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator felt that TSB had demonstrated  the interest free offer was for up to 
20 months but didnt  feel theyd sufficiently made  Mr A aware  of this.
As part of the original  investigation TSB provided information to show their internal systems  
had recorded  Mr As interest  free period  as three  months. And they also provided a copy of 
Mr As December  2017 statement. This statement  showed Mr As promotional  rate was 
going to expire  from 31 January 2018.
So, like our investigator Im satisfied that TSB did set Mr As 0% promotional rate at three 
months. But we also need to be satisfied  TSB gave  Mr A enough information for him to be 
aware of this.
Ref: DRN18706442Ive asked TSB to provide Mr As application,  and other information they held, to 
demonstrate what he was told about the promotional rate hed get when applying for the 
card.
TSB unfortunately cant provide  this information  because of computer issues theyve  had but 
have provided  samples of what they say Mr A would have  seen. While its unhelpful they 
cant show exactly what Mr A saw, I dont think this should automatically mean, in this case, 
Mr A wasnt  told about the length of time on the promotional rate.
In cases like this where  the evidence is incomplete,  I need  to decide what  I think  is more  
likely than not. And taking  everything  into account  I think its more likely than not TSB made 
Mr A aware of how long his interest  free period was.
I say this because  the sample documents show that Mr A would have been told what 
promotional rate he was getting. Theres a screen  that shows  normal  interest rates and 
explains how long the promotional rate would last. I think this would have been enough for 
Mr A to be aware  and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr A wouldnt have been presented 
with a screen like this.
So, taking into account the screens  I believe Mr A saw, plus the information on his 
statement, and in TSBs internal notes  Im currently satisfied Mr A was originally granted  a 
three month interest free period,  and that he would have been made aware  of this.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt  reply by the deadline  set. 
Mr A replied  and provided additional  information. In summary he said:
Once he was made aware of the issue with the interest  free period, he made  over 
15 calls which werent dealt with by TSB
He then had to get us involved, because TSB didnt answer him
Hes not used the card for two years, and has been charged over £1,000 in interest 
which he shouldnt have  been
The credit  card was sold with a misleading promotional  title Platinum 20 Month 
Purchase Card.
TSB cant  provide  his application, even though he can demonstrate hes tried to solve  
this problem by getting in touch with them repeatedly.
Mr A also provided links to websites which showed issues TSB had with their IT systems.
Because of all this, Mr A has asked me to reconsider the findings Ive come  to, and says 
hes demonstrated that hes acted in good faith, and that TSB havent. Hes also added hes 
one of a large  number  of people being  paid out to because of TSBs negligence.
Ref: DRN18706443My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Although Ive not reflected  everything Mr A gave  me in response to my provisional decision, I 
want him to know I have considered everything  in detail.  Having  done  so, I still dont uphold 
this complaint which I know will come  as a disappointment  to Mr A.
To answer  Mr As points, I think its helpful  to respond in two sections:
Mr As specific information
TSBs  wider IT issues
Mr As specific information
I think its probably helpful to say up front I dont  doubt Mr As integrity  here. Hes said that 
hes spent a long time chasing this up and wouldnt have done so if he didnt genuinely 
believe he was right. Ive seen  nothing to make me doubt that, but the test here is whether 
TSB did everything they should have when  they sold him the card.
The first issue here is whether Mr A was given  a three-month rate. In his response to me 
Mr A hasnt disagreed  with what Ive said. So, for the reasons Ive explained above  Im 
satisfied Mr A was given a three-month interest  free rate.
The key issue here then, that Mr A isnt happy with, is knowing what  hed signed up to. He 
said the promotional  rate was misleading, because its advised  as a 20-month  interest  free 
card. Ive considered this, but I dont agree. On the information Mr A has given me, which 
matches what TSB have  given me, the headline rate is 20 months as Mr A says  but the 
rest of the literature  Mr A has received shows up to written across it. So although the 
headline rate was for 20 months, I think its sufficiently clear  in Mr As case  the rate was for 
up to 20 months.
Turning now to the question of whether TSB did enough to make  Mr A aware of this. As Ive 
explained above, I think they did. Mr A says he didnt receive anything  through the post to 
show what hed got. TSB have said the same thing   so again both parties agree. But as Ive 
explained above, I think Mr A was made  sufficiently aware when signing up for the card, how 
long the promotional rate would last. The sample screen shots Ive seen show  Mr A would 
have been told, and had to agree to, how long itd last.
Whether Mr A saw this screen and just agreed, didnt  read it fully, missed that section its 
obviously not possible to say. But based  on what Ive seen, Im satisfied its more  likely than 
not the information was there  for Mr A to review.
TSBs wider IT issues
A lot of the points Mr A has raised  relate  to the wider  IT issues TSB suffered. Those issues  
have been well documented,  and I can understand why Mr A would want me to factor  those 
issues in. Its clear  that these issues contributed to the customer  service problems Mr A 
faced when trying to raise  these  issues.
Ref: DRN18706444But Im required to consider individual complaints based on all the information I have. I cant, 
for example, just uphold Mr As complaint simply because TSB had IT issues  at the time of 
his application   where Im satisfied the evidence doesnt show  it had any impact  on him
And for the reasons Ive explained above, I am satisfied TSB put Mr A on a three-month 
interest rate and did enough to make  him aware of this when he was signing up to the card. 
Because of this, I wont be ordering TSB to refund Mr A any of the losses  hes claiming.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1870644