K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds trading  at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 2001  and at the same  time took out an MPPI policy 
that covered Mr W only against accidents, sickness and unemployment. They arranged the 
mortgage and insurance in a meeting in one of Lloyds branches. 
Mr and Mrs W believe Lloyds mis-sold  the policy. They say it was their knowledge that the 
MPPI policy was part of the decision  making  process to complete a mortgage application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs W dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs W have said adding the MPPI  policy was part of obtaining  a mortgage but 
their recollections about the meeting are not detailed. This is understandable due to the 
amount of time that has passed  since the date of sale.  So I have needed  to look at the 
sales documentation  provided from that time to obtain an understanding  as to what  
more likely happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mr and Mrs W were advised it was a good 
idea to have the insurance  to protect  their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when the separate application  
form was being  completed and signed  by Mr W (as the sole policy holder), that the 
MPPI policy was presented on this form as an optional requirement. On balance,  when 
considering the information in front of me, I am persuaded  Mr and Mrs W were given a 
choice to have  the MPPI policy (rather than it be a compulsory part of the mortgage).
Ref: DRN11385022Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr W as the sole policy holder, but it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time. He says he had a separate  insurance policy  at the time that covered him, but I 
can see that this was in regards  to critical illness and life assurance cover. So as this 
other policy covered  him for different things to his MPPI policy  I dont think it made it 
unsuitable for him. In addition he says he had access to savings but I can see that these 
were not in his name so I cant be sure how accessible these would be to him in a time of 
need. So I think the benefits provided by the policy  would have been of use to him if he 
was sick or had an accident,  or couldnt find work. I think,  on balance, Mr W would have 
found the cover the policy provided  useful.
Mr W was self employed  at the time of sale but I dont think this would have made the 
policy unsuitable  for him. I dont think the terms given for self employed policy holders are 
restrictive or onerous. I can also see no other  reasons such  as a significant or restrictive 
term that would  make  the policy unsuitable  either.
I cannot be sure if Mr and Mrs W would have received the costs of the policy clearly in 
the meeting but even if they had received all the information  on this, I dont think it would  
have changed  their mind  to have the cover  for the reasons that I have already given. 
The MPPI  policy was reasonably priced  compared  to similar  policies available  at the 
time and to the monthly repayment.  And Mr and Mrs W could  have cancelled  the MPPI if 
it did become unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  been  affected by any of these  based  on what I have already 
concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but on balance,  I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1138502