K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he has been  entered into a credit agreement with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading  as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) without his permission.
 
background
Mr M agreed  to buy a kitchen in October 2018. He says that he was told he could pay a 
deposit and the balance  would be due when he had signed off the kitchen as complete and 
he was happy  with everything. Mr M wasnt happy with the kitchen but he got paperwork in 
January 2018  saying  his credit agreement was live. Mr M thinks  that the kitchen  supplier 
fraudulently entered him into the credit agreement.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint was upheld.  He thought that looking  at 
all the circumstances  it was likely  that Mr M had applied for the credit but couldnt now recall 
the agreement. Mr M didnt agree  and replied to say in summary that he was misled  into the 
credit agreement and that the staff at the kitchen supplier did not tell him that he was taking 
out a credit agreement.
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M agrees that he paid a deposit  for his kitchen  in October 2018. I think  that it is likely that 
it was explained  to him by the kitchen  supplier that he would need to either set up a finance  
agreement or pay for his kitchen in full. The terms and conditions of the kitchen supplier on 
its website are clear that if there is no finance in place then the kitchen would  need  to be 
paid for 28 days before  delivery. This is to ensure that the kitchen is not delivered before it is 
paid for. I have no reason to think that the kitchen supplier would depart from the usual 
arrangements in Mr Ms case.
Mr M says he agreed to a credit check.  I can see from the finance documentation  that Mr M 
provided his driving  license and annual salary and his bank details were entered on to the 
direct debit arrangement. Confirmation that Mr M had applied for finance was sent to Mr Ms 
email address. The finance documentation  was also sent to Mr Ms email address. I dont 
know why the email didnt reach Mr M but I cant say that it wasnt sent. 
Although Mr M didnt physically sign the agreement I can see that the agreement was 
digitally signed.  This often  involves ticking a box on a screen and I can understand  why Mr M 
cant recall doing  this at the time.
After the kitchen was delivered the finance  agreement went live in January 2019. Mr M was 
then sent information in the post.  Mr M says that this was the first he knew  of any credit  
agreement and he wasnt happy because he hadnt signed off the kitchen as satisfactory. 
I dont doubt that Mr M had issues with the delivery  and installation  of his kitchen  and that he 
is unhappy with the supplier. These are issues that he has raised in a complaint elsewhere 
and so I am not considering those.  But I dont think it is likely that Mr M was told he wouldnt 
have to pay anything  other than his deposit  until he was happy with everything. This would 
mean that consumers could withhold  all of a substantial  final balance  payment  even  if a 
minor issue was outstanding.    
Ref: DRN19018302Mr M has provided evidence that he had the money to pay for the kitchen and didnt need to 
apply for finance.  I have  noted that the finance is interest free. Consumers will often take out 
finance on these  terms because of the added protection this gives them  to make a claim  
against the supplier  of credit under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act if the goods  or services 
are not satisfactory. It also means that consumers can spread payments at no cost to them 
and keep savings  or other money  invested  elsewhere. So I am not persuaded that this is a 
reason why Mr M would  not take out finance.   
Overall, on the basis of the evidence I have seen I dont think that Mr M was fraudulently 
entered into finance without his knowledge  or consent. I can appreciate why Mr M thought  
that the arrangements were different but I cant be sure what  was said to him at the 
showroom and so I have looked  at all the other  information.  I think it is unlikely he was told 
he didnt have to pay anything until he had signed off the kitchen given the terms of the 
kitchen supplier. I dont  think  that BPF did anything  wrong as the paperwork sent to Mr M at 
the time makes the position  clear.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
8 July 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1901830