K820x#14complaint
Mr S and his representative complain  that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  has 
declined a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr S car was stolen  from a property he owns. The theft was recorded on a neighbours 
CCTV. Mr S made claim on his Markerstudy policy but it declined  the claim.  Mr S is unhappy 
with this and says it hasnt sufficiently explained  its decision. He wants Markerstudy  to 
correct its decision and deal with his claim.
Markerstudy said in its final response  that it repudiated Mr S claim because hed breached a 
term in his policy that required him to tell it straight  away if changes  occurred  which might 
affect cover and that included a change of address  at which  the vehicle is kept. When 
reporting the incident Mr S had said the vehicle was being kept at a different address for the 
last two months while his home address was being renovated.   And the theft occurred  at this 
new address. If itd been told of this change of address it wouldnt have provided cover  
unless the vehicle was garaged. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Mr S policy said he must tell Markerstudy  of any change  that might affect his cover. 
And that included a change of address at which a vehicle is kept. 
Mr S says this wasnt a permanent change, he only expected it to be for a short  time 
and the new address  was only a few minutes  away from his home address. But 
Markerstudy has shown that in order for it to have continued to cover  the vehicle at 
the new address  it wouldve needed to be kept in a garage.  
The CCTV footage  shows  the vehicle wasnt kept in a garage  and there wasnt  one at 
the new property.  So, although sympathetic to Mr S position,  he cant reasonably ask 
Markerstudy to change its decision.
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Mr S policys terms and conditions made  clear  that he was required to tell Markerstudy 
straight away if changes occurred which might affect cover and it said that an example of 
that was a change of address at which the vehicle is kept.
In this case Mr S had stored his car at the new address, a property he owned, for about two 
months before it was stolen. Although this property was only a short distance away  from his 
home address this was something he shouldve  told Markerstudy.
Ref: DRN11266472When Markerstudy became aware of this change it said it wouldve only provided cover  if the 
vehicle was kept in a garage. This clearly  wasnt  the case  when  the vehicle was stolen and 
the new address  doesnt appear to have a garage.
Although I understand Mr S frustration  I dont think Markerstudy has acted unfairly,  wrongly 
or in breach  of the policy conditions. The simple fact is he breached the policy  terms and 
conditions and if hed told Markerstudy of the change of address it wouldnt have provided  
cover unless the vehicle  was kept in a garage which wasnt possible at the new address.
Consequently I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Markerstudy to do anything 
differently including dealing with Mr S claim as hed like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1126647