K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1993 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc trading as Abbey National 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
The policy only covered  Mr B so I have  mainly considered his circumstances from the time it 
was sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B have said they were told they had 
to take the PPI for their mortgage to be approved. I cant know  for certain  what  was said at 
the time,  but I have looked at the available paperwork.
While there  isnt much paperwork available from the time the mortgage application form 
signed by Mr and Mrs B has a separate section  titled  policies  for your protection. Within this 
section Mr and Mrs B were given the option  to accept or decline the PPI, and the option to 
take the PPI has been selected. So with this in mind I think Santander made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they may not remember this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr B has told us that he was entitled to generous sick pay when  he applied for the PPI and 
had savings. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to Mr Bs sick pay and for longer 
than he would have  received full pay. The PPI would  also have allowed Mr B to keep his 
savings in place  to be used towards  other  essential  expenses he may have had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr and Mrs B seem  to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
Ref: DRN15083592The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
I havent seen  any evidence to show Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  with Santander was still 
running on 6 April 2008. So based  on what Ive said above,  I dont think  the unfair  
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So Santander doesnt need to refund  the cost of the PPI or any of the commission  Mr and 
Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1508359