K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he made a transfer  of £500 to his Virgin  Money plc account card that 
wasnt available when  he tried to use it.
background
Mr H says he had been told by Virgin in 2017  that it can take up to two hours for money to 
be transferred into his Virgin account.  He says he travelled to the United States of America 
(USA) with his family for a holiday and on arrival transferred £500 from another  account to 
his Virgin  account.  But he says on arrival  at his hotel his card was declined which resulted in 
him using  a different card and paying fees of about  £20 to do so. Mr H would like £250 
compensation for whats happened and says he was later told by Virgin staff that payments 
on a weekend can take longer to process.
Virgin says its not responsible for the timeframe for a payment into Mr Hs account  and he 
should take it up with the other  bank.  It says it did speak to Mr H in 2017  about a payment 
but not related to this issue.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He obtained the 
records of the transfer of money which confirmed that Virgin  had received the money after 
Mr H had attempted to use his card in the USA.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and has provided  a letter from the bank he sent the money 
from. The letter says the transfer to Virgin was at 12.31am which was before he tried to use 
his Virgin  card. He says Virgin  declined the payment after it received  his money.
The adjudicator asked Mr Hs other  bank to clarify  the time and it says it wasnt 12.31am but 
12.31pm.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Virgin hasnt  made a mistake  or acted unfairly.  I realise Mr H will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I appreciate Mr H says the information  he received from Virgin in 2017 is relevant as he was 
told a payment is processed within two hours.  But I dont agree that its relevant here and 
think it was about  a different issue. I think the issue here is when  Virgin received the money  
from Mr Hs other account.
Ive looked at the records provided by both Virgin  and the other bank.  And Im satisfied that 
the other bank made the transfer to Mr Hs Virgin account at 12.31 pm on 25 March 2018.  I 
appreciate that Mr H says thats after the time he said he asked it to make  that transfer and I 
also appreciate  thats not the same  time as it told him initially. But Im satisfied that its 
confirmed to us that time. Im also satisfied that having seen Virgins record of failed 
transactions that Mr H attempted to use his Virgin card before the transfer had taken place.
So in those  circumstances  I cant fairly  hold Virgin responsible  for the transfer of money by 
another bank  and if or why there may have been a delay by that bank. And I dont think  
Virgin made a mistake by declining  the transactions as the money hadnt been received.
Ref: DRN10011342As I dont think Virgin has made  a mistake here I cant fairly order it to pay for Mr Hs 
transaction charges of about £20 or pay him the £250 compensation he would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1001134