K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold to him 
by MBNA Limited.
background
Mr M complained to MBNA about a PPI policy sold to him to protect  his credit card 
repayments.
Mr M received a response  to his complaint from MBNA. In its reply  it quoted  account  number 
ending 6336. MBNA  said the credit card account had been acquired by MBNA from another  
credit card provider. It said that since MBNA had been the card provider there  had been no 
PPI policy  attached to the credit card account.  MBNA told Mr M that PPI may have been 
charged by the previous provider and it gave Mr M the contact details for that business.
Mr M then brought his complaint  to this service. He also sent us a credit card statement 
dated 4 July 1999 from an MBNA credit card account ending 0005.  The credit card 
statement showed Mr M had been charged £11.96  for PPI premiums.
Mr M also sent us a complaint form quoting the reference ending 6336  and a questionnaire 
quoting account  ending 0005.
We contacted MBNA with this information. MBNA replied to tell us that these were two 
completely different accounts.
The account  ending  6336 was originally with an another provider and MBNA showed us 
evidence that since it has acquired the account  it had not charged Mr M any PPI premiums.
For account ending  0005 MBNA agreed  that it had mis-sold PPI to Mr M. MBNA said that the 
account had been opened in April 1998 and closed in September 1999.
MBNA did not have  any statements for this account  other than the one supplied by Mr M 
dated 4 July 1999. Because  of this MBNA needed  to estimate  the PPI premiums that it 
charged Mr M in order to calculate an offer of compensation.  In total it offered Mr M £321.94.
Our adjudicator thought the offer was fair. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators findings.   
Mr M felt MBNA had underestimated the amount he had been  charged  for PPI.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
To be clear, in this decision I am only looking at whether the offer of compensation for the 
PPI sold with account ending 0005 is fair.
Mr M already has a complaint about account ending 6336 set up with this service  against the 
other provider given by MBNA. So in this decision I am not making any finding about account 
ending 6336  other  than to say it is a separate account to the one ending 0005.
 
my findings
Ref: DRN18156712Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  MBNA has agreed  to uphold  the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look into how the PPI policy  came to be 
sold to him. Instead  Ive looked to see if the compensation paid by MBNA for the mis-sale of 
the PPI is fair.
Having done so I think MBNA has fairly  compensated Mr M and Ill explain why.
First, I think it would be helpful to explain our approach when we find that a PPI policy has 
been mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect MBNA to refund  the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. Wed  also 
expect MBNA to compensate the consumer  for any periods  where theyd been out of pocket 
as a result  of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case MBNA does  not have many records for the account. This is not surprising as the 
credit card account was opened and closed many  years  ago. But MBNA has been able to 
show us records on its internal systems that indicate the credit card account was opened on 
21 April 1998. The records also show it was closed on 10 September 1999. And I think these 
dates are likely to be correct.
MBNA has no records of its own about how Mr M used the credit  card while it was open, or 
how much  he was charged for PPI. Fortunately  Mr M has been able to show us one 
statement from July 1999.
MBNA has used this statement to make  some assumptions about  how Mr M used his 
account and how much he was charged for PPI. From the statement I can see that the 
balance carried over from June 1999  was £1,958.07. And I can see that the balance  carried 
forward to August 1999 was £1,798.35. MBNA  has estimated  that Mr Ms account opened in 
April 1994 with a zero balance. Its assumed the balance then grew each month to a 
maximum of £2,016.00 in May 1999  before reducing  and being  cleared in September 1999.  
I think these are reasonable  assumptions for MBNA  to make.
From these assumptions MBNA has estimated that Mr M would have paid a total of £127.36 
in PPI premiums. This looks a fair estimate as he paid £11.96  in July 1999 when the balance 
was quite high.  MBNA  has refunded these premiums to Mr M.
MBNA has calculated the interest that Mr M would have  been  charged because of these 
premiums and it has refunded that interest to Mr M. MBNA has also calculated and paid 
compensatory interest  for the time Mr M has been  out of pocket.
So I can see MBNA has calculated the compensation  in the way Id expect it to. And Im 
satisfied it puts Mr M in the financial position  hed be in if the PPI hadnt  been sold to him.
Mr M has told us he thinks the calculation is not correct because  he recalls the balance  on 
the credit  card being over £5,000. I thought about  this but I can see from the statement sent 
in by Mr M that his credit limit was £2,000. So I think it is unlikely he wouldve been able to 
accumulate a balance on this account of over £5,000.
Ref: DRN18156713Mr M has also told us that he has had other PPI complaints that were successful and he has 
received higher compensation. The level of compensation payable for a mis-sold PPI can 
vary enormously. It depends on many factors such as for how long the PPI policy existed, 
the level of premiums and how long ago the sale took place. It could be that Mr Ms other  
complaints concerned policies where  he paid significantly more in PPI premiums and was 
therefore owed  more compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that MBNA  Limited has fairly compensated Mr M for the mis-sale of PPI 
with credit card account ending 0005. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1815671