K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is about the amount of tax free cash  shes entitled  to from her pension  
arrangement with Sterling ISA Managers  Limited (Zurich). 
Mrs Ks financial adviser is representing  her in this complaint. 
background
Ive considered Mrs Ks complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 
30 September 2020. Ive attached it and it forms part of this decision.  
I said that I intended to uphold  the complaint but only in part. In brief I didnt think  it was 
Zurichs fault that Mrs K lost her entitlement to enhanced tax free cash. But Zurich  had made  
errors in trying to get the matter sorted  out for which Zurich  should pay Mrs K £250 as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shed been  caused. 
Zurich accepted my provisional decision.  Mrs Ks representative didnt make any additional  
comments. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments from either  party, my views remain  as set out in my 
attached provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint but in part only. Sterling ISA Managers Limited must pay Mrs K £250 
for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14691612PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 30 September 2020
complaint
Mrs Ks complaint  is about the amount of tax free cash  shes entitled to from her pension arrangement 
with Sterling ISA Managers  Limited (Zurich). 
Mrs Ks financial adviser is representing her in this complaint. 
background
Mrs K had pension policies with two providers. One had an enhanced tax free cash  entitlement. Mrs K 
was advised to consolidate  both policies  into a new arrangement  with Zurich. In order to preserve her 
enhanced tax free cash entitlement, the transfer of that policy had to be carried out as a block 
transfer. Mrs K says Zurich  didnt treat the transfer as a block transfer.  Zurichs position  is that the 
instruction it was given initially was that the transfer wasnt part of a block transfer. 
After the transfer had taken place Mrs Ks adviser contacted Zurich.  As the transfer hadnt been part 
of a block transfer Mrs K wasnt going to receive  the correct (higher) amount of tax free cash. Zurich 
took steps and Mrs K and her adviser understood the matter had been corrected. 
In June 2017  Mrs K decided to take her pension  commencement lump sum (PCLS) from the other 
policy that had been transferred to Zurich. Zurich was unable to calculate  the correct  PCLS so Ms Ks 
adviser had to submit  a manual calculation. Zurich paid that amount. 
In late 2017 Mrs K decided to take the enhanced tax free cash arising from the other policy  that had 
been transferred to Zurich. Zurich said it was 36% which  Mrs Ks adviser  queried, saying  it should  be 
38%. Zurich then said it was only possible  to pay 25%. It had transpired  that the enhanced tax free 
cash had been lost: Under HMCR rules the customer must crystallise  all pension  rights under the 
scheme on the same  day. By taking some tax free cash earlier that year Mrs K had crystallised part of 
her benefits  then which  meant shed lost her scheme specific tax free cash protection. 
A complaint  was made to Zurich. It didnt  uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated 6 
February 2018 Zurich  explained that Mrs Ks two transfer payments  in July 2016 (Zurichs letter said 
July 2017 but I think that should have read July 2016)  and August 2016 had originally been placed  in 
one portfolio. In September 2016 it came to light that Zurich hadnt been told the transfers were  part of 
a block transfer and the enhanced tax free cash hadnt been noted. Zurich  agreed to rewrite the 
portfolio and moved the funds to another portfolio as a block transfer. 
Zurich said it had set up the original portfolio as submitted by the adviser in June 2016 with both 
transfer values in the one account. When Zurich  was notified it hadnt been submitted as a block 
transfer Zurich  agreed to rewrite the portfolio to a new portfolio to ensure Mrs Ks enhanced tax free 
cash entitlement was still available.  This was done under one portfolio and there was no request for 
the funds to be split. 
Zurich pointed out that the same situation had arisen  with another (related) customer. Zurich had 
contacted the adviser in November 2016 to say that the customer needed  to take the full PCLS at that 
point to avoid losing the remainder of his entitlement. His PCLS was rekeyed  at the full sum rather 
than the reduced amount initially requested. Zurich said the adviser was aware of HMRCs ruling  
around entitlement to an enhanced PCLS. It is ultimately  the advisers  responsibility to be aware of 
the customers personal circumstances and current regulations.
Mrs Ks complaint  was referred  to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint but only in part. He didnt 
think Zurich was responsible if Mrs K had lost her enhanced tax free cash  entitlement. But Zurich had 
made errors in trying to get the matter  sorted out. He thought Zurich should pay Mrs K £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. He said it was important  that the matter 
was resolved and that Mrs K received the tax free cash she was entitled to. Zurich should work 
Ref: DRN14691613closely with Mrs Ks adviser to achieve that. It should  be established  what  Mrs Ks entitlement was 
and that should be paid to her as soon  as possible. 
Zurich accepted the investigators view. It said the complexity of the matter had resulted, in times, in 
confusion but the issue had stemmed from the fact that the transfer was incorrectly  submitted to 
Zurich initially by Mrs Ks adviser. Zurich was happy  to pay the £250 the investigator had suggested. 
Mrs K was disappointed.  She said Zurich and her adviser  hadnt been able to agree up until now so 
they still wouldnt  be able to agree. Shed had to pay tax on her drawings  while waiting a decision. Mrs 
Ks representative asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
From what Ive seen it wasnt Zurichs fault that the transfer wasnt treated as a block transfer. The 
cash transfer  authority  forms which Mrs Ks adviser  completed clearly state  that the transfer wasnt 
part of a block  transfer. But once Zurich was alerted  to the problem  it took steps to make sure that 
Mrs Ks enhanced tax free cash entitlement wasnt lost. 
Mrs Ks adviser says Zurich  assured him that two plans were set up. And that the two pensions were 
amalgamated by Zurich  by mistake. The adviser  suggested that, as Zurich hadnt requested a 
certificate from the ceding scheme as to the scheme specific  tax free cash, Zurich  decided not to 
segregate the two transfers so the PCLS  couldnt be taken in insolation, which was why the adviser 
had to undertake manual  calculations and as instructed by Zurich.  
But, as Zurich has said, the platform is an adviser led proposition  and so its the advisers 
responsibility to ensure  any transaction is keyed correctly.  As I understand it there was one portfolio  
reference, which is consistent with the aim to amalgamate the two plans. I havent seen anything  to 
show that the transfers  were to be kept separate and held in different accounts.  I think the adviser 
knew (or ought to have known) that the two transfer values had been consolidated - only one portfolio 
number was given (although  that was different to the original portfolio number  given).   
Further, it isnt the fact that the two transfer payments were amalgamated that caused the problem  
which resulted in Mrs K losing her entitlement to enhanced tax free cash. 
That happened in June 2017 but didnt  come to light until December 2017. Mrs K had taken some tax 
free cash in June 2017. In December 2017 she was looking to access  further tax free cash   
specifically the higher  tax free cash amount that she thought was protected. Although, in the end, the 
transfer had been processed as a block transfer, thereby preserving the scheme specific PCLS  
protection, another condition hadnt  been met: The member has to crystallise all of their pension rights 
under the scheme  on the same day. By taking some  tax free cash  earlier that year Mrs K had 
crystallised part of her benefits then which  meant shed  lost her scheme  specific tax free cash 
protection. 
Unless theres any argument thats wrong  then Mrs K has lost her entitlement  to enhanced tax free 
cash. So in line with HMRC regulations Zurich  will only be able to make a payment of 25%.
The issue is whether Zurich is responsible for Mrs K losing her entitlement  to the higher tax free cash  
amount. If I thought Zurich  was, I could direct  it to redress Mrs K for the extra  tax shell suffer.  There  
was a dispute  about how much extra tax free cash Mrs K was entitled to - Zurich suggested it was 
36% but Mrs Ks adviser said it was 38%. I havent looked into that. Thats  because  I dont think it was 
Zurichs fault that Mrs K lost her entitlement to the enhanced tax free cash. So Im not going  to say 
that Zurich is required to redress Mrs K for the extra  tax shell suffer  is she withdraws  a further lump 
sum. 
Ref: DRN14691614First, as Ive said, I dont think Zurich was required  to set up two separate  plans. Nor did Zurich lead 
Mrs K or her adviser  to believe that there were two separate plans. And it wasnt the fact that there 
werent two separate  plans  that cost Mrs K her enhanced tax free cash. 
I think  the adviser should  have  been aware  that if Mrs K didnt crystallise all of her pension rights on 
the same day shed lose her scheme specific tax free cash  protection. I note what had happened in 
the other case: Zurich  had warned the adviser that taking  less than the full amount of the PCLS 
(including the enhanced  tax free cash amount)  would  compromise the higher protected tax free cash  
amount. I can see why Mrs K and her adviser might say that Zurich should have done the same in her 
case when Zurich was contacted about taking a PCLS in June 2017.  
But I dont think there was any obligation on Zurich to give any advice or consider the possible 
implications. Zurich was the provider  not the adviser. It has a duty to operate the scheme correctly 
and in accordance with instructions given by the member or his or her adviser. It isnt for Zurich to 
advise and I dont think, strictly speaking and even if Zurich had been helpful  in the other case, that 
its for Zurich  to point out any adverse tax consequences which might arise. 
The other  instance  was in November 2016  so before Mrs K wanted to take any PCLS. So the issue 
had arisen  earlier and Mrs Ks adviser should  have  been  aware that taking tax free cash could cause 
problems.
All in all I dont think Zurich is responsible  for Mrs K losing her enhanced tax free cash entitlement. 
Zurich has agreed  to pay the £250 suggested  by the investigator.  I dont think  Zurich  needs to do any 
more.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint but only in part. Zurich must pay Mrs K £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1469161