K820x#14complaint
Miss D has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mis-sold her motor  
insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Miss Ds been helped by her mum. But for ease Ill refer to her 
mums comments as being those of Miss D.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Miss D was looking for a policy online.  Advantage offered a policy for a premium of around 
£860 (before fees and interest). During that process  Miss D said she was a student  living  
away but gave  the address her car would be kept at as her familys home  address. Four 
months later she told Advantage she would be moving the car to her university address. 
Advantage charged her an additional premium  of roughly £612 in order  to cover her car at 
the university address. Miss D brought her complaint about that to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 August 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I wont uphold 
it. 
Miss Ds explained  that she told Advantage she was a student living  away from home when  
she applied  for the policy.  So she doesnt  think its fair that Advantage charged her an 
additional premium  when she moved  her car to her university address. It seems  she thinks  
that Advantage should have realised  that she would want  to keep her car at her university 
address and so ask her questions about  that, so it could tell her what  the full years premium  
would be from that address.  And because it didnt  do that, she thinks the policys  been 
mis-sold. But I dont think thats right.
I understand this was Miss Ds first car and first policy so she might be unfamiliar with the 
manner in which insurance policies work. But when a car will be kept at more than one 
address its usual for insurers  to require potential policyholders, like Miss D, to tell them  
where the car will be kept most of the time. And thats what  happened on this occasion.
Miss D initially  kept her car at her family address for the first four months after she bought  
the policy. So Advantage - quite correctly - insured her car on that basis.  Advantage couldnt 
have known that Miss D would choose  to keep her car at another  address at a later date or 
when that date would be. Its certainly not the case that all students who live away  keep their 
cars at two addresses  during  a policy year. Many will spend the majority of the year at their 
university residence, and so insure their cars as being there. While others will leave their 
cars at their family homes or other addresses away from college,  and use those addresses 
for their policies. So I dont think Advantage could  have known that just because Miss D said 
she was a student living away from home  that at some point during the policy year her 
address would change. So I dont think its reasonable  for it to provide quotes on what  the 
premium might be at the time that Miss D moved  the car, if indeed she did.
Ref: DRN18799742It might help if I explain that insurers will calculate  a premium based  on the risk of their 
policyholders making a claim  and the costs  of such claims. And insurers will assess that risk 
- and calculate the premium - based on the information that the consumer gives  them  at the 
time they apply for the policy.  If that risk fundamentally changes,  and a change of where the 
car is kept overnight  is certainly such a fundamental change, then its usual for an insurer to 
recalculate the risk. If the risk increases the insurer will charge  an additional premium. But if 
the risk reduces  its usual for an insurer  to calculate  a refund. Thats  common practice 
amongst all insurers Im aware  of and I dont find that practice  unfair or unreasonable. So I 
think it was reasonable  that at the point Miss D changed where she kept her car Advantage 
recalculated the premium  based on the change of risk.
I appreciate Miss D might have been unfamiliar with insurance practices. But that doesnt  
mean that Advantage treated her unfairly.  It calculated a premium  based on the information 
she provided when  she took out her policy. And I note that the policy information it sent her 
warned that if she kept her car elsewhere for more than 50% of the time that it may charge 
an additional  premium.  And thats what happened in this case.  So I dont think it treated her 
unfairly.
There was no requirement  for Advantage to calculate what the premium would have been for 
keeping the car for the full year at Miss Ds university address at the outset because the car 
wasnt being kept there. So a risk calculation on that basis wouldnt have reflected the actual 
risk to Advantage.  And if the situation had been the other way round, and Advantage had 
charged Miss D for a higher risk - at her university  address - when  the car wasnt  being kept 
there for the full year, I doubt Miss D would have found that to be fair. Thats because 
Advantage would  have  been charging  a higher premium than the risk warranted.
Miss D might  think that if Admiral  had told her the premium  for her university address at the 
outset shed have  looked for a cheaper  policy. But as Ive already  said,  Advantage had no 
reason to know that Miss D would be looking to change the address  on her policy during its 
term. So it had no reason to ask her further questions and provide additional quotes. And if 
Miss D had any doubts or queries then she could have put those to Advantage before she 
bought the policy. But she didnt do that and I dont think  Admiral  was under any obligation  to 
anticipate that Miss D might have  such queries.  It follows that I dont think Advantage did 
anything wrong.
developments
In response to my provisional decision Miss D made a number of points but I dont intend to 
summarise each of those here. Amongst other  things  she said she had initially intended  to 
take her car with her to university immediately after shed bought the policy. She added that 
shed taken care to answer all the questions from the comparison site, where  she initially 
applied for quotes.  She said she was inexperienced in dealing  with a financial product of this 
nature. And she felt that Advantage   or the comparison site  should  have asked  further 
questions after she said she was a student  living away.  She asked me to expand on what  
elsewhere meant in terms of where  she kept her car. She added that she didnt think Id 
considered that her intent had been  to take the car away to university  with her from the 
outset. 
Ref: DRN18799743my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Miss Ds said that her intention from the outset had been to take her car away to university 
with her immediately after buying  the policy. But Ive noted that she bought the policy after 
shed already travelled to her university  address. So it seems a little unusual  that she didnt 
then move the car to that address for a further  four months.
Also, I accept that Miss D answered the questions from the comparison site with reasonable 
care. So if shed intended to move her car to her university address immediately I think shed 
have answered  the comparison sites questions  differently. Im aware  that the comparison 
site asks where the car will be kept overnight. And by clicking on the appropriate button  it 
provides information  about the detail its asking for. It says that if the car will be kept at two 
or more  locations then it wanted to know where  the car will be kept the majority of the time. 
And it gives the option of saying whether that is at home or elsewhere. And if the answer 
is elsewhere it asks for the address. So if Miss D had initially intended to keep  the car at her 
university address  the majority of the time, she had the opportunity to provide that 
information when  she answered the questions on the comparison site but she didnt do so. 
I understand Miss D was inexperienced in applying for motor  insurance. But I dont think  
shes found herself in the position that shes in because of any failure  in the questions asked. 
As I said in my provisional decision I dont think Advantage  could  have anticipated that 
Miss D would want to move her car to another  address. But, in any event, as Ive said above 
the comparison site would  have allowed her to add a second overnight address  if she 
wished. So I dont think there was any failure by Advantage to ask clear  and appropriate 
questions.
Further at the time that she took out her policy, Miss D had only provided one address; so 
my reference to elsewhere in my provisional  decision was in the context of the address that 
shes provided. And Miss D didnt  say that she intended to keep the car at second address 
so I dont think Advantage could have known that was Miss Ds intention. Indeed Miss Ds 
policy actually said that if the car was kept at a post code other  than the one Miss D had 
given for more than 50% of the time then it could cancel her policy or charge an additional  
premium. And I dont think thats unclear, even if Miss D said that she was a university 
student living away.
It follows that I dont think Advantage did anything wrong when selling or setting up the 
policy. So I dont think it treated Miss D unfairly.
Miss D also commented about the suitability of certain insurance products for students. She 
also referred to information some  of her fellow students had given  when applying  for their 
own policies. But were  not the industry  regulator. That means that I can only comment  on 
the merits of the specific cases before me. And I dont have the power to change  insurance 
company or comparison site policies, procedures or practices. So I dont intend  to comment 
on those points here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN18799744Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1879974