K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mr H says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Capital One has sent us a copy of Mr Hs application form for the credit card. This included a 
question on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to be ticked to show whether he wanted to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
If Mr H didnt want the PPI, I think he couldve ticked the no box, or left the question blank. 
So I think Capital One made it clear  to him that he had a choice about the PPI. And that 
Mr H chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mr H any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means  Capital One didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr H. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant he didnt  need to rely on any other means he had to make his repayments if 
he wasnt earning. So the PPI would have  been useful for Mr H if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr H off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr H has also said he thinks he shouldve been  told about the PPI when he went  into branch 
to try and reduce  his monthly payments.  But this complaint is about  the sale of the PPI. If 
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received at a later date,  or if he is experiencing financial 
difficulty, he should raise  this with Capital One directly.
Ref: DRN13094522my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1309452