K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2006. Mr R and Miss D say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Mr R and Miss D bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) to cover their mortgage in 
2006. TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which  is a form of 
PPI), life cover and critical illness  cover. Ive looked  at the sale of the PPI cover only.  The 
PPI covered both Mr R and Miss D. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R and Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Halifax had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr R and Miss Ds 
consent before adding  the policy. There is not much  paperwork  available from the sale  
but this isnt surprising considering the length of time since the sale.  Ive seen a copy of 
the welcome letter sent to Mr R and Miss D which begins  thank  you for choosing a 
Halifax Total Mortgage Protection  Plan. This implies that they had a choice to take the 
policy, and I think they wouldve  questioned  it if they had been  told they had to have it as 
a condition of the mortgage. Furthermore, Ive seen a copy  of Mr R and Miss Ds 
mortgage offer and on it is a section related to insurance which states  you do not need 
to buy any insurance  through Halifax Plc. So on balance I think its more likely that 
Halifax made it clear that Mr R and Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R and Miss D so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think 
that it was. For example they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover. The PPI wouldve paid out 
for up to 12 months if either Mr R or Miss D were unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So I think Mr R and Miss D wouldve found the policy  useful 
if they found themselves out of work.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R and Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R and Miss D have  said. I know Mr R and Miss D will be 
disappointed  but for the reasons Ive explained  above, I dont think their PPI was mis-sold. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr R and Miss D some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr R and Miss 
Ref: DRN11343772Ds mortgage was a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr R and Miss D paid for the PPI they had 
with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1134377