K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the increases in premiums on their home insurance 
with Hiscox Insurance Company Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs Ds insurance policy with Hiscox started in 2009.  It initially  cost £386 for the year 
(excluding interest charges for paying  monthly). The next year, 2010, Mr and Mrs Ds 
insurance cost £478. 
In 2018, the renewal quote was for £961.  At this time, Mr and Mrs D said the annual  
increase, which  including interest  charges,  was 15% - and they felt this was excessive. This 
prompted Mr and Mrs D to shop  around. They found numerous quotes that were  up to 70% 
cheaper. They cancelled the renewal and complained that Hiscox had been  overcharging  
them for many years. 
Our investigator initially thought the increases from 2015 seemed unfair.  But, after Hiscox 
provided additional information  to explain those increases, our investigator concluded that 
Mr and Mrs D hadnt been treated unfairly,  and that the complaint should not be upheld.
Hiscox said that the premiums charged  were reflective of the information they held about the 
buildings and contents being insured. And that at least since 2015 Mr and Mrs D had been 
paying less than the new customer  price.  Hiscox  pointed out that insurance premium tax 
(IPT) had increased each year from 5% in 2014 to 12% in 2018.  This had contributed  to the 
increases, as well as inflation  including operating  and claims costs, Flood Re scheme  
contributions (since 2017) and abnormal inflation in the cost of escape of water claims 
(2018). 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed,  so Ive been  asked to make a decision. Mr and Mrs D pointed  out 
that since 2018 their premiums with another insurer have increased  by just 4% over three 
years and are still less than they were paying Hiscox  in 2009. They  think  that all the factors  
cited by Hiscox would have affected other  insurers as well, and that the high prices charged  
can only be put down  to Hiscox abusing their loyalty. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Hiscox has treated Mr and Mrs D 
fairly throughout the period they held their insurance policy.
If I find that Hiscox  hasnt  treated Mr and Mrs D fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair. However, in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I appreciate  
that Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed with this, and Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs D took out their policy in 2009,  it cost £386 for the year (excluding  interest  
for paying monthly), and the insurance cost £478  upon renewal in 2010. The overall  
buildings and contents sums  insured increased each year with inflation.
Ref: DRN18850342An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. Mr and Mrs Ds policy  
automatically renewed each year. So, it was possible for the policy  to renew  without them 
engaging with the renewal  or any changes in the premiums. 
Where an insurer knew,  or ought  reasonably to have  known, the consumer wasnt engaging 
with the renewals process,  they should  have taken care to make sure they treated these  
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage with the cost.  So, Ive thought 
about if and when Hiscox  shouldve taken additional  care when setting  Mr and Mrs Ds 
premiums. 
I understand there was an introductory discount in 2009. This isnt uncommon  and policies 
may well initially be priced  lower to attract new customers. I dont  think its unfair for an 
insurer to seek to recoup  that cost over the subsequent years. 
By 2014, it had been many years  since  the start of the policy,  which by then was the only 
time Mr and Mrs D had engaged with the cost of the policy. So, I think that by 2014 Hiscox 
shouldve been  aware of this and taken care not to take advantage of their lack of 
engagement. 
The first few renewals of the policy (2010  to 2012) saw fairly large increases in price,  with 
the 2013 increase being much smaller.  I dont  think Hiscox treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly  in 
those years, given the effect of an introductory discount. In 2014, when I think Hiscox 
shouldve taken care not to take advantage of Mr and Mrs Ds lack of engagement with the 
renewal process, the increase was similar  to in 2013. And this doesnt seem unfair to me.
In 2015, Hiscox offered  renewal with no change in price. So, I dont think it can be suggested  
that it was taking advantage of Mr and Mrs D at that point.  
However, in 2015  Mr and Mrs D did engage with the renewal process.  They doubled the 
sum insured for jewellery and watches and changed  from having specific  sums  insured for 
buildings and contents, to having unlimited cover for both.  This,  as I would expect, resulted 
in a significant increase in the price. Because this increase  was linked to the changes Mr 
and Mrs D made to the policy, and they accepted the price at which  Hiscox offered the 
insurance, I dont think this was unfair.
After 2015, it was only three years before Mr and Mrs D engaged with the price of their 
policy again. At that point, in 2018, the price was affected by them having made a claim for 
damage caused by escape of water during the previous year.  This reduced  their no claims  
discount, which was in large  part why their premium increased so much  that year.  
Mr and Mrs D have found insurance much cheaper elsewhere. So, I fully understand why 
this leads them to think that Hiscox has treated them unfairly.  But given that insurers  often 
include discounts in order to obtain new customers, I dont think the initial price would be a 
fair comparison  even if the cover provided had been identical. 
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same. They have different levels  of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged. And 
each insurers costs  may vary depending on many things  not least  the make-up  of the pool 
of customers they are insuring. 
Ref: DRN18850343It is also worth noting that different insurers view risk differently, as well as how they wish to 
price this, and what profit  they would like to make. So, even if two policies were identical,  
which is unlikely, just because the policy with Hiscox cost a lot more than another provider  
it doesnt mean the amount charged was unfair. Ultimately Hiscox  takes  a view of the risks 
and what it feels it needs to charge to offer insurance for these which  is economical.  From  
the information Ive seen  in this case, there  is no indication that Hiscox did anything wrong 
with how its priced Mr and Mrs Ds policy.
Having considered everything, I dont think Hiscox has treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly when 
setting the price of their home insurance.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1885034