K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly  settled a claim against her taxi 
insurance policy. 
background 
In December 2018 Miss T was driving her taxi. She collided with a third party.  They made a 
claim against her Haven taxi insurance policy. Haven accepted she was at fault for the 
incident. She feels this is unfair as she wasnt to blame.
Miss T complained to Haven. But it didnt change its position. Haven  apologised for the poor 
customer service  Miss T had reported.  It said it had provided feedback to the individual  
involved.  
Our Investigator  didnt think Haven had acted  unfairly by accepting Miss T was at fault for 
the incident. He didnt  recommend it do anything differently.  Miss T didnt accept that. So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.  
Haven charged  Miss T a £500  late notification of claim  excess.  She was unhappy about that 
as well. But after the complaint was referred  to this service  Haven  offered  to refund it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats  the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted  in line with the policy  terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision.  Under Miss Ts policy Haven has the right to defend  or settle  any 
claim on her behalf. That means  it might  make a decision she disagrees with, but the policy  
allows it to do so. I can consider whether its decision to do so was reasonable. Having done 
so, I think it was. 
Miss T says the third party moved  into her way whilst she was reversing.  He says he was 
stationary, waiting at a barrier, when she reversed into him. Haven felt, considering the 
available photos,  the third partys account  was more plausible.  They  said Miss T was parked 
over bays  incorrectly.  It didnt have anything to support claims she made that the third party  
had been negligent. 
Haven concluded  that based  on its experience  a court would find her at fault. So it accepted 
liability for the incident. It chose not to defend  the claim in court. Havens solicitor agreed 
with its assessment and decision. I understand Miss T feels  the third party  is lying. But 
based on what Ive seen I cant say Havens decision was unreasonable  or wasnt made in 
line with the terms  of her policy.
Havens apologised  for the customer service  issue. Its given feedback to the person 
involved. I think thats a reasonable response. Im not going to make  it do anything  more. 
Haven has offered to refund the £500 excess.  So I havent considered if it was fairly  
charged. If it hasnt already, Haven should  refund that money.
Ref: DRN19253102my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Haven  Insurance Company Limiteds decision  to 
accept Miss T being at fault was unreasonable. Its offered to refund her £500. Thats  fair 
and reasonable so it should pay her £500  if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1925310