K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
with a loan in 2007.
background
Mrs W took out a loan with Black  Horse in September 2007. At the same time,  it sold her a 
single premium PPI policy  protecting her loan repayments if she was unable to work due to 
disability and unemployment. It also provided  life and critical illness  cover. The cost of the 
PPI was added to the loan and attracted interest.
Black Horse  also sold two other  PPI policies to Mrs W with loans she took at different times. 
Black Horse  has already  offered to compensate  her for those sales,  and Mrs Ws accepted 
those offers,  so I dont  need to address them in detail in this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs W says about  being mis-led into believing  the PPI 
wasnt optional and that she had to take it if she wanted the loan.  Black  Horse has, among 
other things,  provided  a copy  of the loan agreement Mrs W signed  which  shows  she ticked 
to say she wanted PPI. We also have a copy of a demands and needs questionnaire Mrs W 
signed. It sets out Black  Horses personal recommendation  which  Mrs W apparently 
accepted  that she should buy disability, unemployment, life and critical illness  cover. 
This all indicates to me that the PPI was discussed  and that Mrs W was aware she didnt 
have to follow Black Horses advice. On balance, I think  she chose to take it knowing she 
didnt have to, although I can understand if she cant remember this now.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances in 2007, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And she seems  
to have had a need for the cover selected.  Although she had some  sick pay entitlement 
through her employer,  the PPI would  have paid out for longer. The PPI benefits  were also 
guaranteed, whereas there was no way of knowing  if her parents would have been in a 
position to help her when  she needed it. 
It doesnt appear that the PPI was flexible in that, if Mrs W settled the loan early,  she 
wouldnt have got a proportional refund of the premium. But I cant  see that it was likely 
Mrs W intended to pay the loan off early  when she took it out, so I dont think the PPI was 
unsuitable for her on that basis.
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied  she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
Ref: DRN17326842also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But 
Black Horse  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because  Black  Horse didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
what Black Horse needs to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. Black Horse  should also pay back  
to Mrs W any extra  interest she paid because  of that.
Black Horse  should pay back to Mrs W the extra she paid each month on the loan because 
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium   including any 
extra Mrs W paid if the loan was paid off early. Black  Horse should also pay Mrs W 8%* 
simple interest on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs W.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1732684