K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that although she has returned  goods to Studio Retail Limited  the items 
havent been credited to her account.  
background
Mrs A has a catalogue account  with Studio Retail Limited. In the months from November 
2017, she ordered several items, but when they arrived they were unsuitable or faulty and so 
she returned them. However, her statements havent been credited with all the returns she 
made. Outstanding items are:
Two packs  of boxer shorts at £14.99  each
A pair of trousers at £9.99
Two pairs of curtains  at £56.99 each
Tow cardigans at £19.99 each
A bath mat at £14.99
A laundry hamper  at £29.99
A duvet  set at £29.99
Mrs A complained about this to Studio but never  received a response. She asked  us to get 
involved. Our investigator ultimately concluded the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded this as although  invoices  showed  the items being  charged,  and Studios system 
showing credits had been made, this wasnt reflected in the statements Mrs A had been 
sent; there  was a difference  of £268.90, the amount of the goods set out above. 
Studio didnt agree it had done anything wrong.  It said items arent charged to an account 
until they are dispatched. These goods  werent dispatched and so not charged to the 
account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall outcome  as the investigator, and for much  the same  reason.
Mrs A has provided some  of the invoices she has been sent. These show that some of the 
items listed above have  been invoiced to her  they are recorded  as being in parcels  due to 
be delivered. 
I have also considered all of the information  provided by Studio, which includes an invoice 
record of 97 pages.  This record  shows that all of the items referred to above were  charged to 
Mrs As account. Im satisfied,  therefore, that the items were dispatched in accordance with 
Studios own submissions about  its processes.  
I have also considered that this same record shows the above items  have been credited to 
her account.  And for at least  some  of these (as full screen information hasnt been  provided) 
the records show they were returned items.  I would  question  why its own system  would 
record an item as returned, if, in fact, it had never been sent in the first place. And the items  
being returned is consistent with Mrs As testimony.  I have no reason to doubt  what  she has 
said, particularly as other items she says she returned at the same  time have been credited 
on the statement  balance.  
Ref: DRN15384992Overall, I dont  find Studios argument persuasive;  it isnt supported  by its own records.  In the 
absence of persuasive evidence Mrs As statement  balance is correct, I find it is too high by 
£268.90 and so Studio needs  to put matters right.
how to put matters right
As Im satisfied Studio  hasnt properly  adjusted Mrs As statement balance to account for the 
returned items listed above, I require Studio Retail Limited to:
Rework the statement  balance so it correctly reflects the above items have been 
returned and credited  to the account.  
If any interest and charges have been  applied  to the statement balance as a result of 
these items, they also need to be removed from the outstanding balance.   
If as a result of either  of these the account  is in credit, that sum should be repaid to 
Mrs A. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Studio Retail  Limited to put 
matters right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1538499