K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Killik & Co LLP (Killik) failed to treat him fairly in relation to a proposed 
property purchase via his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He believes he should 
have been told earlier in the process that the purchase would not be allowed to proceed. 
background
In February 2018  Mr C held pension investments through a Killik SIPP. He also held other 
pension investments in a SIPP with another provider. He started discussions with Killik to 
use his SIPP  for the purchase a piece of land. The application form he completed noted that 
the property was land formerly an agricultural nursery adjacent to [Mr Cs home residence].
Killik used a third party company to manage property and land purchases  within  the SIPP.  
I will call that company  B. Initially it appeared to Mr C that the purchase was proceeding 
smoothly. So, he arranged to make a pension contribution of £32,000  to his SIPP and for the 
transfer of a further £211,000 from the SIPP he held with another provider.
In May 2018  B got back in touch with Mr C. It told him that, after reviewing all the 
documentation he had submitted, it no longer considered that the land that was being  
purchased was appropriate to hold with his SIPP. It considered it likely that holding this land 
in the SIPP  would breach  HMRC rules.
Mr C complained to Killik about the time it had taken B to make that decision. Killik did not 
uphold the complaint and it was therefore referred  to this Service.  An adjudicator considered  
the complaint  and didnt think it should  be upheld. She said that in her view neither Killik nor 
B had confirmed to Mr C that the land purchase  had been approved  to go ahead, and all of 
the correspondence confirmed that further  information was needed. She also said that Mr C 
had signed to confirm that he understood he could not hold Killik responsible if the purchase  
did not go ahead, and that it was his decision to pay the monies into his pension policy 
before it had been explicitly confirmed  that the purchase would proceed. 
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of 
our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr C and by Killik.  Where  the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts,  I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.  
Ref: DRN14682072I appreciate that Mr C feels let down  by what happened on this transaction. He incurred 
costs in terms of the valuation and environmental reports that he needed  to provide to B. 
And he also says that he lost out on investment returns  when  he moved a significant sum of 
money from the SIPP he held with another  provider to the SIPP he held with Killik in 
anticipation of the land purchase going  ahead. 
Ive looked carefully  at whether it was reasonable for Killik to decide not to allow Mr C to 
purchase the land through his SIPP. And in doing  so Ive borne in mind the regulations  that 
HMRC place on purchases of this nature.  My conclusion is that it was reasonable for Killik to 
decide that allowing this purchase  would most likely  place Mr Cs SIPP outside the relevant 
HMRC regulations. And I think that Mr C generally accepts that it is reasonable for Killik to 
make that judgement.
So the matter  that I need  to decide  here is whether Killik reasonably made  Mr C aware that it 
might refuse to allow the purchase of the land via his SIPP   and whether  the decision to 
reject the transaction was communicated to Mr C at the earliest opportunity and so helped 
prevent any costs that he might incur later.
When he first asked  to purchase  the land via his SIPP Mr C signed the following declaration;
I/We acknowledge that Killik & Co Trustees  Limited  may, in its discretion, choose not to proceed  
with or complete  the purchase  of, the property, that I/we will have no right,  remedy  or claim 
against Killik & Co Trustees Limited, Killik & Co LLP or [B] if Killik & Co Trustees Limited chooses 
not to proceed  and that the exercise  of such  discretion  by Killik & Co Trustees Limited shall not 
relieve me/us of any liability  or obligation  that I/we will have  hereunder. Any fees incurred  up to 
the point the decision is made not to proceed  will be due in full from the applicant(s).
So I think that statement  made it clear to Mr C that there was a possibility that, at some 
stage of the process, Killik might decide  to not allow him to continue  with the purchase of the 
land via his SIPP.
In March 2018 B wrote to Mr C to update him on the progress of his request. In that email B said;
I have now received  the property purchase questionnaire and confirm  that there will be no 
issue in proceeding with the purchase. There are a few points which  will need to be seen 
to/confirmed in order to complete: -
As per the property  purchase questionnaire  a valuation of the land will need to be 
obtained by a RICs chartered surveyor ()
()
The only further  requirement at this stage  will be for environmental reports to be 
completed to assess the site and confirm that there are no further  issues.
Ive thought carefully about what it is reasonable to conclude that B meant when it said there 
was no issue in proceeding with the purchase. On its own I could agree with Mr C that 
statement might  have  been taken to be an indication  that the transaction had been agreed. 
But it was caveated by the need for some further information. So I think  that email,  whilst 
reasonably letting Mr C know that his application  was in progress, didnt give any guarantees 
that ultimately the transaction  would be authorised.
Ref: DRN14682073The valuation was completed on 26 March 2018 and B emailed Mr C on 5 April 2018 to say 
As we now have the valuation, I believe everything is in place  to proceed subject to 
environmental reports being completed.
Mr C then paid a contribution of £32,000  into the SIPP,  and transferred £211,000 into it from 
his SIPP  with the other provider. 
On 14 May 2018 B emailed Mr C to confirm  that it believed the purchase of the land would 
fall outside of HMRC  rules  and that it could  therefore not proceed.  B has told us that a 
number of factors lead to it reaching  that conclusion at that time. It says that the information 
contained in the property  purchase questionnaire wasnt sufficient to cause it concerns about 
the nature  of the land that was being purchased   it says this only became clear  once it had 
received the valuation and environmental reports.  And B says that on receipt of all the 
information Mr Cs request was considered by its specialist investment committee. It was 
that committee that reached the decision to not allow the purchase  to proceed.
Mr C has said that he is disappointed  that B didnt clearly lay out the approval process to him 
before he entered the transaction. He says that if he had fully understood the different steps 
of authorisation  he might  have delayed moving his funds from his other SIPP.
I dont think it was necessary for B to lay out each of the approval steps for Mr C. I think it 
was sufficient for B to tell Mr C that his transaction would need  approval. And I dont  think 
that at any stage B could reasonably have been  said to have led Mr C to believe that the 
purchase had been  approved. Ultimately, until it had considered  all the evidence  B wasnt in 
a position to advise Mr C whether or not the purchase  would be approved.  So I dont think 
that not providing Mr C with an early indication of the problems was unreasonable   those 
problems werent identified until all the evidence had been supplied and it had been 
considered by the investment committee.
So I dont  think B, and therefore  Killik since  B was acting on its behalf in the transaction,  has 
done anything  wrong here. It follows that I dont  think  Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Killik & Co LLP. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr C to accept  or reject  my decision before  5 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1468207