K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy how Fairmead Insurance Limited  (formerly known as Legal & 
General Insurance Limited) handled a claim on their home insurance policy.
background
Mr M and Mrs M suffered  an escape  of water from a bathroom pipe. The water  passed 
through the kitchen ceiling causing  further damage. So they contacted  Fairmead to register a 
claim. They were told by Fairmeads  assessor  there was no need to strip out any of the 
bathroom. So the insurer only offered to pay for the ceiling to be fixed and part of a damaged 
work surface  in the kitchen. 
Mr M and Mrs M were worried about possible damage they couldnt see between the 
bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling. They got their own plumbers report which  said the 
bathroom needed stripping out, drying  and then putting back.  So theyd like Fairmead to pay 
for the whole  area to be dried and reinstated and for the kitchen ceiling and work surface to 
be repaired. 
Fairmead said itd appointed  a firm to assess the damage on its behalf. The assessor said 
he felt the damp would dry out naturally. He disagreed with the need  to replace all the floor 
and wall tiles in the bathroom as there  was no evidence of any damage behind  them.  
Fairmead asked Mr M and Mrs M to provide  evidence and costs of any new damage for it to 
review. And it offered to send a drying  specialist to complete an independent report. But 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  want that. So Fairmead  said it wouldnt be responsible for any further  
damage in the interim.  
Mr M and Mrs M werent satisfied with Fairmeads  response. So they contacted our service 
and our investigator looked  into the matter. She could see the home insurance policy didnt 
include trace  and access cover. So any damage caused while inspecting the leak wouldnt 
be covered. Itd been agreed that Mr M and Mrs M would hire a plumber  to fix the leak so 
Fairmead could continue the claim. Our investigator  recognised that Mr M and Mrs M were  
unhappy with the work  carried out by Fairmeads  assessor. But she felt Fairmead  was 
entitled to rely on the information  provided  by them. And she felt Fairmead had followed its 
procedures correctly so she couldnt fairly ask it to do more.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt  agree.  So theyve  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. Theyve 
had a large quote for work  including drying  and removing  the entire bathroom as well as the 
floor and wall tiles. They feel if Fairmead  had sent the damp specialist  when theyd 
requested it, the repair work couldve happened  much sooner.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This mustve been a very stressful time for Mr M and Mrs M. They returned from holiday to 
find the kitchen  ceiling  had partially  collapsed due to a water leak in the bathroom above. 
When their insurer sent an assessor  to look at the damage they were  told the damp areas  
would dry out naturally. But Mr M and Mrs Ms own plumber  said the whole bathroom 
needed removing  and the area needed drying  properly. So Ive looked  very carefully at 
whats happened to see if Fairmead has done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN18575622Mr M and Mrs Ms home insurance  policy doesnt  cover for the cost of tracing or repairing a 
leak. And Fairmead has explained its assessor would only consider the damage they could 
see during the visit. They  wouldnt remove anything to check  for further problems as that 
might cause other damage that wouldnt be covered by the insurance policy. 
Fairmeads assessor said they didnt think there  was any need to install specialist drying  
equipment. They thought  the area would dry naturally  now the leak had been repaired.  But if 
anything else was found during the reinstatement works a further  assessment would be 
carried out. And it would  reconsider the claim to take into account any additional damage.  
Fairmead noted the policy excess  was quite large. So it suggested Mr M and Mrs M might 
want to get some independent  quotes as the cost might be less than the excess. 
I realise Mr M and Mrs M were unhappy  Fairmead  didnt send anyone out to dry out the 
property at the beginning.  But I cant really say the insurer acted unreasonably when it relied 
on the assessors report which suggested the area would dry naturally.
Having considered the plumbers report Fairmead  did offer to send a specialist drying 
company to review  the bathroom area. And I think its reasonable for Fairmead to want  to 
use its preferred company. I understand Mr M and Mrs M dont want  any more  people 
coming into the property.  But Fairmead explained the visit was necessary if Mr M and Mrs M 
wanted it to progress and validate  their claim. 
I understand Mr M and Mrs M have now got an independent firm to carry out the repair 
works. And Fairmead has offered a cash settlement from which the excess would have to be 
deducted. But now another  firm has started the repairs  there is no opportunity  for Fairmeads 
assessors or its drying  specialist to confirm  the plumbers report. So it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Fairmead to cover the drying costs  incurred by Mr M and Mrs M when they havent had the 
opportunity to investigate  themselves and put things right if necessary. 
I know this has been a stressful time for Mr M and Mrs M. And they wanted Fairmead to 
send the drying  specialist  at the beginning of the claim. But the home insurance policy  
doesnt cover the cost of investigating for further damage. And based on what theyd seen 
the assessor felt it was okay  to let the area dry naturally. If Mr M and Mrs M submit a copy  of 
the works  theyve had carried out with supporting evidence Fairmead may be able to 
reconsider the claim and the cash settlement offered.
I realise Mr M and Mrs M will be disappointed  with this outcome. But I dont think  its unfair 
for Fairmead  to choose which specialist firms to use when assessing  a claim. Or for 
Fairmead to rely on the information they provide.
Based on what Ive seen  I think Fairmead  has acted properly in line with the terms of the 
home insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 July 2020.
Ref: DRN18575623Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857562