K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Paymentsense Limited  did not initially arrange  for the next day 
settlement of card payments from his customers.
background
A sales representative of Paymentsense arranged for Mr O to enter into a hire agreement  
and merchant services agreement for his business.  Mr O started to process card payments 
on 1 March 2019. On 4 March 2019 Mr O contacted Paymentsense as he had not received 
any settlements. He was told that he would need to apply  for next day settlement as his 
current agreement said this would  be in three  to five working days.  He started receiving  next 
day settlement of payments in this way from 18 March 2019. He says that as a result  he had 
to borrow on overdraft  and could not pay his business rent on time. Paymentsense offered 
him six months free terminal rental.
Our investigator recommended that in addition it pay Mr O £250. He said that he was 
persuaded by what Mr O had told him. He thought it most likely that Mr O had been told he 
would receive next day settlement and that this was a key reason why he had switched from 
another provider.  The terms of settlement  were  not prominent in the agreement.  Mr O had to 
borrow money from family  there were related credits of £2,200  to manage his bank 
account within the overdraft limit. And he had been  able to pay the rent for his business  
although about five days late. Our investigator noted  that the value of the offer of free 
terminal rental was £108  and he took this into account in deciding on appropriate 
compensation.
Paymentsense did not agree. The agreement did not state that settlement would be made 
on the next day. It said that it understood that Mr Os bank account was overdrawn before 1 
March 2019. So it did not think that this overdraft was the result of what happened.  And it 
thought that Mr O was aware of the need  to send  it information for the next day settlement 
arrangement and so knew  he had to apply for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted that Paymentsense said in its final response  to Mr O that it was not able to 
evidence the discussion regarding the crediting time   I asked it to provide me with details 
of the process  it went through to establish  this. And for copies of any notes or statements  
from the sales representative involved.  If there were no such  copies then I asked it for a 
written response now from that representative.
I received a copy of an exchange of emails between  the complaints  team  and that 
representative dated 16 July 2019. These  set out that the next day settlement was not on the 
original application  and was added when  the trading history was provided. The 
representative accepts  that he told Mr O that this would be a quick  process and would only 
take three to five days not four weeks. The representative said he did apologise to Mr O 
about this and said that this was his mistake.
Mr O signed the agreements on 21 February 2019. From all the evidence I can see I dont 
think it was in doubt he wanted  to receive  next day settlement. And the timescale he was 
Ref: DRN14638252told would  have made it possible for this to have been set up by the time he had switched 
from his existing provider  on 1 March 2019.  The trading history  he provided was 12 months 
of bank statements. He provided those on the day he was asked for them on 7 March 2019.  
Im struggling to see why he would  not have been  easily able to provide this information 
when he signed  the application form. And hes told our investigator that he provided this 
information more  than once. Mr O contacted Paymentsense on 4 March  2019 asking why he 
had not received next day settlements. Thats entirely consistent  with him expecting  that this 
would have been set up within the timescales that the representative accepts he was told.
So I find on balance that Mr O was told that the next day settlement would be established by 
the time he started  to process payments.  For reasons which are not totally clear  such  an 
application was not made  until after he contacted  Paymentsense again. And I note that there 
is no internal documentation from Paymentsense  about its investigation into this at the time. 
Mr O has been clear  from the start about what he expected.
I appreciate Paymentsense had not seen Mr Os bank statement. And it has said that if he 
was already overdrawn then this was not caused by the delay in settlement. The point is that 
had he not received the credits I can see of £1,000  on 7 March  2019 and £1,200  on 18 
March 2019 from a family member he would not have  been able to operate  within  his 
overdraft limit and pay his rent. And I dont think him knowing he needed to provide trading 
information for an application for next day settlement  now makes any difference.  As I said 
above I find he thought based on what the representative says that next day settlement 
would be established  before he started  to process  payments. 
Mr O has been able to mitigate his loss and help manage any reputational impact for his 
business. But he has been caused  inconvenience  and distress. The amount of 
compensation is a matter  for my judgement  and I take into account  our published guidance 
about this. Having done so, I agree with our investigators assessment that a payment of 
£250 in addition to the credit for six months  terminal hire is the appropriate settlement here. 
Should Mr O already have  paid this rental  which is by now most likely  then he should receive 
the equivalent payment as a refund.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Paymentsense Limited to:
1)Arrange for the equivalent of six months terminal hire including  VAT to be paid back 
to Mr O as set out above.
2)Pay Mr O £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1463825