K822xComplaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let him 
reject a van.
Background 
In July 2017 Mr G acquired a new van funded  with a hire purchase agreement  and deposit  of 
£9,000. He says he was told by the dealer he would receive a 12% discount on the new van 
and this was confirmed in the negotiations,  however, only 10% was added, and 2% was put 
towards the part exchange.
He said he was told he could have 20 inch alloys fitted, but later discovered these may have 
voided his warranty.  He added that a promised service plan didnt materialise.
Later he told the dealer the alarm system wasnt working correctly and was subsequently  
sent in for repairs but these werent successful. Also a rattling  noise coming from the 
speaker had to be repaired, but this resulted  in cosmetic damage due to felt tape being used 
to repair  it. He also provided photos  of damage to the central console and a heat mark on 
the internal vent after the repair work had been  undertaken.
VFS said the rattle from the speaker  was investigated and repaired in October 2017. 
However, the problem  was due to be inspected in October 2018; however Mr G didnt turn 
up. VFS rejected Mr Gs complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended it be upheld
He said that under the Consumer Credit  Act VFS was responsible along with the dealer. He 
said there was clear evidence of a poor repair and this not improved after the van was taken 
back to have the repair work tidied up. He also said that it seemed VFS hadnt  given proper 
consideration to the claim that false representations  had been  made  by the dealer.
He concluded  that Mr G should be allowed to reject the van. Mr G agreed and after some 
time VFS also agreed. However, in the meantime, Mr G sought a replacement  van rather 
than rejection. BFS took the view that this was something for the dealer to resolve. It seems  
that no resolution has been  made  and so the matter has been referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN12222192The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It seems  that all concerned have  accepted  that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality and I 
dont intend to explore this further  save to say I am in agreement. The remaining issue is for 
me to finalise the redress and settle  this complaint  formally.
Mr G has expressed  a wish to have a replacement van from the dealer, but as I understand 
it that hasnt materialised.  Therefore  in order to finalise matters I think  it best if I confirm  the 
proposed redress  put forward  by our adjudicator. I believe one of Mr Gs concerns was that 
this would leave  him without  the van for a period of time. However,  it should  be possible to 
avoid or minimise that risk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay and collect the van at no cost to 
Mr G and at a time of his convenience.
Refund the deposit paid by Mr G plus 8% interest (simple) from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Refund 10% of all rental payments  to reflect the time he was without it.
Pay him compensation  of £250  for the distress  and inconvenience  he has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222219