K820x#14complaint
G complains, through its director Miss O, that New Wave Capital Limited agreed to a credit
facility without its authority.
background
Miss O was, at the relevant time, the sole director of G. Shes  explained though that she
handed control of the company to her partner,  Mr B. He then applied  to New Wave  Capital
for a credit facility. Miss O says that she neither knew about  nor agreed to this, and that New
Wave Capital didnt  therefore have Gs authority to set up the facility.
Mr B used the credit facility and ran up a debt of nearly £15,000. Miss O says that Mr B
developed alcohol  and drug issues, and they separated. It was only then that she found out
about the facility and the extent of the companys borrowing. She says that New Wave
Capital is pursuing  her personally  for the companys debt under personal guarantee which,
she says, Mr B took out in her name - again  without her knowledge or permission.
New Wave Capital said however that it believed  Miss O did know  about the facility and
agreed to it. She had signed the application; she was also the main signatory  of the
company account  to which  the money  had been transferred.
Miss O referred the case to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He
indicated that, in his view.  New Wave Capital  should not pursue Miss O for the debt. He
wasnt persuaded that Miss O (and therefore G) had agreed to the facility. He noted that the
application had been completed online and that it was likely that Mr B would have been able
to do that without Miss Os knowledge or authority.
New Wave Capital didnt  accept the investigators findings and asked that they be reviewed
by an ombudsman.
I reviewed the case but, provisionally at least, reached a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator. I noted that, whilst  Miss O had said that she hadnt  signed the 
personal guarantee, I was considering only her complaint about the loan to G. She and G 
are separate legal entities, and so I couldnt address both their complaints here. 
I said too that I thought it likely that Mr B would  have had sufficient knowledge about Miss O 
to set up the loan,  if he had wanted  to do so. He was also in a position to receive the card 
and any documentation  associated with the account.  Because the loan application  had been  
made and approved remotely,  there  would have  been no requirement for Miss O to attend in 
person. I accepted  that it was possible that Mr B had indeed  applied for the loan without 
Miss Bs knowledge. 
I noted however  that Miss O had in effect handed  control of G over to Mr B. She had no 
involvement in its day-to-day operations, even though she was a director of it. And it wasnt  
necessary for Mr B to be a director (he wasnt) to act on the companys  behalf. He might  
have been able to do so, even if Miss O didnt know about or agree to his actions. 
I commented too on the fact that the loan money  had been paid into Gs account with a 
different provider. Miss O said that Mr B then removed  that money to his own account.  I 
thought though that this was really a matter for G to take up with its own bank. 
Ref: DRN14744132Overall, I wasnt persuaded that G hadnt applied  for the loan, because Miss O had given 
control of the company to Mr B. 
Miss O didnt  accept my provisional  findings. She said that she hadnt  authorised  Mr B to 
apply for credit on behalf of the company. He had used  his own contact details, such  as his 
mobile phone number, to do so. She said too that New Wave Capital should  have contacted  
her directly  when it received the application for credit and that Mr B was guilty from the 
company.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I havent  
changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision. 
Theres little to add by way of reasoning  to what I said in my provisional  decision, and which  
Ive summarised above. I accept that Miss O probably didnt give Mr B express permission to 
apply for a loan.  She did, however, allow him to run G. So, if he was acting in a way that 
wasnt in the interests  of the company, thats really a matter between  the company  (acting  
through its director, Miss O) and him. Thats not something with which  I can get involved.  
I note what Miss O says about New Wave Capital  contacting her before it agreed the loan to 
G. But Mr B had day-to-day control of the company. There was no reason for New Wave  
Capital to think that he wasnt acting other than in the companys interests  he had been 
handed day-to-day control of it. In any event, the companys losses were  caused primarily by 
the transfer of the loan funds from its bank  account,  not by New Wave Capitals decision to 
transfer that money to its account.        
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  my final decision is 
that I dont  require New Wave Capital Limited  to take any further steps to resolve Gs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G 
(through Miss O) to accept or reject  my decision before 8 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1474413