K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about how Acromas  Insurance Company Limited  handled a claim for an 
electrical problem, that he made on his home emergency policy.
background
Mr W had a home emergency policy underwritten by Acromas.  He has complained to our 
service about claims he made  for problems with his bathroom sink, and for problems with his 
electricity supply. This complaint deals with the electrical problems he told Acromas about  in 
November 2017.  I will complete a separate decision about the problems with Mr Ws blocked  
sink.
Mr W told us that he contacted Acromas at the end of November 2017, to tell it that he had 
no power in his home. He made  a number of calls to Acromas, to find out when it could send 
someone out. 
Acromas said that its electricians were all busy,  and it said that Mr W had agreed to get his 
own electrician. Mr W said that he never  had his own electrician attend. He says all the 
electricians who worked  in the house  were the responsibility of Acromas. 
Mr W said that the first electrician who attended removed the residual current device (RCD) 
from his home. He said that this left his home in a dangerous, indeed  life-threatening, state. 
He said that this was negligence  on the part of Acromas. 
Acromas said that Mr W hired this electrician, and it isnt responsible for the work he did, 
although it accepts  that it paid the electrician directly. It said that it doesnt  usually do this, 
but it agreed to do this as an exception in Mr Ws case. 
There was then some discussion as to whether Mr W was covered under his policy, as the 
electrician who attended had apparently told Acromas that Mr W was renting out part of his 
home, and Acromas took the view that Mr W wasnt covered as a result.  Mr W firmly  denied  
this, and Acromas proceeded with the claim.  
Acromas said it then sent its own electrician to the property. An electrician attended on 
6 December. Acromas sent us the report that this electrician compiled, which said that the 
electricity installation in Mr Ws home was unsatisfactory for continued use, and noted  a 
number of areas which were in need  of remedial  works, or potentially  dangerous.  This 
electrician also apparently said that Mr Ws own electrician had disconnected the RCD.
Mr W said that the problem was then worse.  He said he had no heating or hot water.  Mr W 
said that he rang Acromas repeatedly to complain  about this, but it wouldnt talk to him. 
Acromas sent an electrician to Mr Ws home  again on 8 December. It said that electrician got 
75% of power  back on in the house. Acromas sent another  electrician on 11 December,  and 
the report of that visit states all power reinstated with the exception  of one plug socket 
which is damp and corroded. 
Mr W then said that the problem had been caused  by damp.  He has told us that this was all 
one claim,  and was linked to his previous claims for a blocked sink. 
Mr W said that he expected compensation of £2,500 for this issue.
Ref: DRN14295032Acromas didnt agree that it had done anything wrong, and it didnt think it should have to 
pay compensation.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  in part. He said that when Mr W rang Acromas on 
28 November, it said it would try to get someone out the same  day. But our investigator  said 
that Mr W had been  left with no heating or hot water.  The temperatures in the area were 
close to freezing at the time. So he said that Mr Ws home was no longer in a habitable 
condition. He didnt  think that trying to get someone  out in 24 hours constituted the 
immediate assistance  that the policy was supposed  to provide. 
Our investigator said that Acromas agreed to allow someone else to do the work,  but this 
took even longer. So our investigator said he didnt  understand why Mr W had decided  to get 
the work  done  somewhere else,  if Acromas electrician wouldve been there sooner. Our 
investigator said that Mr W hiring  his own electrician  meant that Acromas wasnt  responsible 
for the work  that Mr W then had done. That was Mr Ws responsibility.  But our investigator  
said that Acromas should pay £100  for not being able to provide immediate assistance in an 
emergency. 
Our investigator said that it had been suggested  that the electricity problem was actually due 
to an earlier  water claim causing damp. And that would mean that Acromas  shouldnt charge 
the policy excess again. But our investigator said that Acromas  hadnt charged the excess  
for this claim anyway.
Our investigator said that he appreciated that Mr W had concerns over how the property was 
left, when there was no RCD in place. But he could only think  about the impact of what  did 
happen, not what could happen.  He said he was relieved that nothing came  of this. 
Our investigator noted that Mr Ws home  was still left without power after Acromas  
electrician left, because  he forgot  to put a fuse back. Acromas wouldnt talk to Mr W when he 
rang about this, but it said that this was because of the behaviours  Mr W had previously 
shown to staff. Our investigator said that he had listened to the calls between  Mr W and 
Acromas, and he thought that Acromas  decision on this was reasonable. But he didnt think  
that Mr W shouldve been left without hot water and heating,  so he said Acromas should pay 
£50 more because  of this. 
Acromas didnt agree with that. It said that it does have times  of peak demand,  when it cant 
always provide an electrician or other  engineer immediately. It said that it had agreed  with 
Mr W that he would source his own electrician and it would pay for this. And it said that the 
problems with Mr Ws home were made  worse  by the work that electrician did. It said that its 
electrician had noted the difficult  position  that Acromas was left in, after Mr Ws electrician 
had removed the RCD. 
Acromas didnt think the points that our investigator  had identified were its fault, so it didnt 
think it should have  to pay £150 in compensation. 
Mr W sent a detailed reply. He said he was glad we had recognised that Acromas  had a duty 
to get someone  out extremely quickly to help with an emergency  like this one. But he said 
that wed made a mistake  by referring  to his contractor. He said he didnt have a contractor. 
He said hed objected  to Acromas requiring him to find an electrician  himself,  and had then 
spent a huge amount of time trying to find someone. 
Ref: DRN14295033But although  Mr W told us hed found  the electrician  who first attended  his home,  Mr W said 
that these were contractors provided and administered by Acromas.  Mr W said that if they 
were his contractors, he wouldve paid them, but he didnt, Acromas did. He said that he 
wasnt responsible  for what they did in his home, Acromas was. And Mr W said that the 
decision to remove an RCD protector from his home  was professional  negligence by 
Acromas.
Mr W also said that we hadnt  done anything about  the fact that hed been  trying for months 
to get Acromas to fix the damp that eventually caused the electricity  problems. He said wed 
only looked at whether  he shouldve been  charged  the excess  for a claim,  when we 
shouldve considered the danger caused  in the interim.
Mr W said that our investigator had commented that the missing fuse was the last straw. So 
he said of course he got angry. And he said that he was proved right when he contacted the 
electrician who admitted his mistake  and eventually came to fix it. Mr W also said that our 
investigator had found  that Acromas was justified  in its decision not to speak directly to him 
while it was waiting for a report from the electrician. Mr W said that hed only had to call it 
because of its incompetence.  He said we were allowing  Acromas  to rely on its own 
professional negligence as reason for not talking to him. 
Mr W said that we had to look at matters as a whole. He said that he thought that what  had 
happened demonstrated chronic professional negligence across  an entire year.  He said he 
still wanted Acromas to pay him £2,500  for this problem, but he now also wanted Acromas  to 
return the premium of £500 that hed paid Acromas too.
Because Mr W and Acromas didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed  to me 
for a final decision.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr W had home  emergency cover with Acromas. That covered him for emergency  work 
to restore power  to his home.  Acromas treated Mr Ws claim, made in November 2017, 
as covered under his policy.
-Mr W said that when he contacted Acromas to report that the electricity  was off in his 
home, it said that it would try to have  someone with him within 24 hours. I had listened 
to the two calls that Mr W made  about  this issue on 28 November. 
-I could hear, on the first call that Mr W made,  he was concerned that Acromas couldnt 
give a definite  commitment to get someone out to the property before that evening.  The 
call handler said it would try to get someone out within 24 hours,  and explained this was 
a 24-hour service. She seemed to me to be suggesting that Acromas only obligation  
was to get someone out within 24 hours. I checked  Mr Ws policy, and I didnt think  that 
was right. It is a 24 hour policy, but I thought  that meant that the policy operates all hours 
of the day or night.  Not that Mr W must wait 24 hours for an appointment. 
-I thought that, because Acromas couldnt  tell Mr W when an electrician could attend, that 
it provided him with poor service on this call.
Ref: DRN14295034-Id listened  to the second call too. It seemed as if Mr W hadnt received a promised call 
back, so he rang Acromas  again. On that call, the call handler  confirmed that notes from 
the earlier call just said that Mr W didnt  want to pay the excess, not that his concern was 
when someone  could get to him. There didnt  appear to have been any claim opened for 
him. Again, I thought  that demonstrated  poor service, which delayed the resolution of this 
claim. Our investigator  suggested  that Acromas should pay Mr W £100  to make up for 
this. I thought that provided a reasonable resolution to this part of his complaint. 
-In deciding how much  compensation  Acromas should pay Mr W for this issue,  Id also 
considered the remainder of this call. Mr W became  quite angry.  I could understand how 
frustrating this was for Mr W, but I thought this call stopped being constructive because 
Mr W started to make personal and derogatory comments about the call handler. The 
call was eventually terminated by the call handler. I thought that must have delayed  
Mr Ws claim further. But, having listened to this call, I didnt think  that this was an 
unreasonable response by Acromas call handler. 
-We didnt have  a recording of the call where it was decided that Mr W would call an 
electrician himself.  I knew that Mr W said that he had no choice about this, because  
Acromas couldnt  attend urgently. But I didnt think it was unreasonable  for Acromas to 
say that it is sometimes more busy than at other  periods. I thought it was reasonable, 
when Acromas is busy, for it to offer its customers the option  to find their own contractor. 
-I knew that Mr W said he didnt have any choice  but to contact an electrician himself, and 
I appreciated that without any power or heating in his home, he may have  felt under 
considerable pressure to resolve the issue quickly. But I did still think  that he exercised a 
choice to call his own electrician. He had the option to wait for Acromas electrician, 
possibly combined  with other options  like alternative accommodation. 
-Mr W doesnt accept though that the electrician he sourced was his electrician. He said 
that this was a contractor  that Acromas hired. But I didnt think  that was right.  Mr W told 
us that he selected  this electrician.  He got Acromas to tell the electrician that he would 
be paid, after Mr W had found  him. And he then got Acromas  to agree, exceptionally, 
that it would  pay the electrician directly. But I didnt think  that changed the fact that Mr W 
selected the electrician and engaged him. I thought this was Mr Ws electrician. I didnt 
think that Acromas was responsible for what  this electrician  did.
-That distinction was important in this case,  because both Mr W and Acromas agreed  that 
this electrician removed an RCD device, which is an important  part of electrical safety in 
the home. I understood why Mr W viewed this as a serious issue. But I didnt think that 
Acromas was responsible  for what that electrician did.
-This did, as Acromas noted,  leave it in a difficult position. Someone else had already 
started work on Mr Ws home. In certain  circumstances,  Acromas  would be able to say 
that it wouldnt fix the damage  that Mr Ws electrician  had done,  as long as it had 
explained that to Mr W before he rang the electrician. In this case, Id said that we didnt 
have a recording of the call where  this was discussed. So I couldnt tell if that was 
explained to Mr W or not. But in fact I said that didnt  make a difference  to this case,  
because Acromas still made repairs to Mr Ws home, and ensured power was restored. 
As part of that, it fixed the problem caused by the electrician Mr W had hired.
Ref: DRN14295035-There was some confusion over whether Mr W was renting out part of his home.  Mr W 
was adamant  that he was not renting  out a self-contained  part of his home.  I didnt think  
that it was Acromas fault that this issue was raised.
-Acromas sent an electrician to Mr Ws home  on 6 December. It wasnt clear, but it seems 
as if it was this electrician that Mr W says forgot to put a fuse back, and left him without 
heat and hot water again. Mr W said that when he tried to ring Acromas about  this, it was 
repeatedly ending calls. Like our investigator, I thought that this was done as a result of 
earlier, difficult calls that Acromas had experienced with Mr W. Whilst it was unfortunate 
that this may have  resulted in a delay to fixing  a mistake over a missing  fuse,  I didnt 
think that Acromas stance on this, that it would wait until it had received the report  from 
its electricians  before  engaging with Mr W, was unreasonable. 
-Our investigator suggested that Acromas  should  pay Mr W £50 for being  left without 
power, by mistake,  and I thought that provided a reasonable  outcome  to this part of 
Mr Ws complaint.
-Acromas electrician  attended again on 8 December, and provided power to 75% of the 
property. On 11 December, Acromas restored power to all but one socket.  Given  the 
extent of the problems noted on the electrical report that Acromas  has sent us, I thought 
this was a reasonable timescale to solve the problems with the electricity  installation in 
Mr Ws home. 
-Mr W said that this was all linked to an earlier claim  for damp, that he had been trying to 
get Acromas to sort out for months. Id asked Acromas to supply details of any related 
claims that Mr W made.  I could see that he did claim, after the electricity  was restored, 
for a leak which he said was related to the problems with the electricity.  But I couldnt 
see anything that suggested to me, either in the notes from that claim or the other notes 
that Acromas had supplied, that Mr W had alerted Acromas to this problem before the 
claim he made for a loss of power to his home. And I didnt think  this was related  to the 
problems Mr W had experienced with a blocked sink. So I didnt think that Acromas had 
let Mr W down somehow, before the problems with power in his home, which  then led to 
an avoidable  loss of power in his home.
-For those reasons, I thought that the overall  payment of £150 that our investigator  
suggested provided a fair and reasonable outcome  to this complaint. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Acromas contacted us to say it agreed  with the provisional decision, and had nothing to add. 
Mr W sent a detailed objection.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr W was very unhappy with my provisional decision. He said that Acromas had always sent 
a mix of directly employed  technicians and subcontractors to his house. He said that this 
instance was no different.  He said that hed been given a choice, either to wait for Acromas 
directly employed technician, which he couldnt  do because it was winter, or it offered to pay 
for a subcontractor if he would find one online and give his details to them.  He said that 
Acromas paid the contractor directly.  He didnt agree that this was his contractor. 
Ref: DRN14295036I said in my provisional decision that I understood that Mr W had found this contractor. He 
has told us that he called  a number of companies  before  he found someone who could do 
the work.  I realise  that Mr W is firmly of the view that he was engaging this contractor on 
behalf of Acromas when  he arranged this. But Ive explained that I dont  agree  with this. 
Acromas didnt choose the contractor. Mr W did. I know  that Acromas later agreed to pay the 
contractor directly. But Ive checked  Acromas  notes from this time, and the conversations 
its summarised with Mr W dont  seem to me to be consistent with Acromas having agreed 
that Mr W had engaged this contractor on its behalf. So I still dont  think  Acromas is 
responsible for what this contractor did while carrying out repairs  to Mr Ws home. 
Mr W is very upset  that the RCD was removed from his home electrical system, leaving it in 
a potentially dangerous position. I do understand that concern. But Ive explained why I dont 
think that Acromas is responsible for that. And our service cant  take action against the 
electrician concerned. 
I noted in my provisional decision  that Acromas did replace  the RCD that this contractor 
removed. 
Mr W also felt that I hadnt understood that Acromas  had told him that there were no 
electricians available  for days, and that his only option was to call other companies to see if 
they would  do the work.  He felt that Acromas should be better  resourced  to provide a 
service, whether by directly employed  persons or contractors. He said he shouldnt have to 
find someone to do the work. 
I understand Mr Ws point on this. My provisional decision was that Acromas  wasnt  wrong to 
make this offer. I still think that, practically, if an insurer finds  its not able to attend to an 
emergency promptly, then its not wrong for that insurer to offer a cash settlement to the 
customer if they can find someone to do the work  themselves.  And I appreciate the situation  
that Mr W was in, when this offer was made. But I still think it was an offer.  Mr W didnt have 
to take it. 
I would also note that, although Acromas  wasnt able to confirm on the calls Ive heard that it 
would have someone out within 24 hours, it said that it would try to do that. Ive not heard 
Acromas say that it wouldnt have any electricians  available for days. 
Mr W also said that hed called Acromas  repeatedly for a whole evening  and a morning, after 
a contractor failed  to replace a fuse.  Id noted  in my provisional decision that Acromas 
wouldnt talk to Mr W then, but said that was because  of the behaviours  that Mr W had 
previously shown to staff. Mr W said that by the time hed rung, repeatedly,  he felt that this 
was beyond the confines of acceptable conduct by Acromas, and it was unreasonable of me 
to suggest otherwise. 
Mr W seems to accept  that he became angry  at some  point  during  this series of calls. But Id 
noted in my provisional decision  another example  of him becoming angry with Acromas staff,  
before this. I think it was unfortunate  that Acromas decision to manage calls with Mr W in a 
particular way occurred  at a point when  Mr W did need to arrange for a contractor to return, 
but I still think that, given  the content of calls Ive listened to which predated  this, that was 
not an unreasonable response by Acromas.
Ref: DRN14295037Mr W also said that there was evidence that the damp problem in his home was related to 
the electricity problem. He said that an electrician, whom  he named, had written in his report 
that the damp may have  caused the electrical problem. 
I was aware when I produced my provisional  decision that Mr W reported a damp problem to 
Acromas, and that there  was then work  done  on his home after the electrical problem was 
fixed, to fix this damp problem too. I dont  know whether the electrical problem, and the 
subsequent repairs  to solve a damp problem, were related. But what I decided in my 
provisional decision was that there was no evidence that Mr W had alerted Acromas  to this 
damp problem before the claim he made  for a loss of power to his home.  And I didnt think 
this was related  to the problems Mr W had experienced with a blocked sink. 
So, damp may or may not have caused  the electrical fault. But even if it did, if Mr W hadnt 
told Acromas  about the damp problem, then its not Acromas fault that this wasnt fixed 
before the electrical problem occurred.
Mr W also said that he still thought that £2,500 was the appropriate  amount of compensation 
in this case. He said hed spent weeks and weeks of his time on this issue, and Acromas  
had caused a year of stress that was bordering easily  on criminal negligence. And he said 
that my proposal for compensation was absurd, because our service had already paid him 
more than this in compensation for his complaint about us. 
Ive explained  that Mr Ws complaint about  our service is separate  to my consideration of the 
merits of his complaint.  I have to make sure that awards made against businesses  for the 
merits of a complaint  are comparable to other awards that this service  makes for the same 
issues. I cant compare the award  that Im suggesting here that the business pays to Mr W to 
any amount that Mr W has received from our service directly.
I do realise how strongly Mr W feels about  this complaint, and how disappointed  he will be 
that Ive not changed my mind, but I have set out why my view in this case  remains the 
same. I still think that a payment  of £150 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. Mr W has said that he will not accept that, and of course that is his decision to 
make. However, I remain of the opinion that the award  I initially  proposed remains  fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Acromas Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr W £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1429503