K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr S says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr S aware that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. I cant be certain  what was said when Mr S applied for his credit  card 
and PPI policy but Lloyds has sent us a copy of the available paperwork.  Mr Ss credit card 
application form had a separate section for PPI where the option  to take the policy has been  
selected. The application form has also been signed in acceptance  with the selections  made  
on it. So I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr S 
has told us that he would  have received sick pay from his employer at the time he took the 
PPI, he had other insurance,  and he could have relied on family help if he was unable to 
make his repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ss sick pay and 
covered circumstances that his other  insurance wouldnt have. And while  Mr Ss family 
would have wanted to help, their ability to would have been  dependent on their 
circumstances at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN12424362Ive thought about everything Mr S has said including that he felt pressured  into taking out 
the PPI. But pressure can be subjective so Id need persuasive evidence to uphold his 
complaint on this basis, which I havent  seen.  And as Ive explained  above,  I think the PPI 
was presented to him as optional. So overall,  I havent seen enough  to make me think 
Lloyds put pressure on Mr S to take the policy, and Mr Ss points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr S the difference between 
what Mr S owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1242436