K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM). Hed 
made lump sum payments to his mortgage  some  years earlier,  but the bank wouldnt let him 
use those previous payments instead of making future monthly  payments.
background
In 2005, Mr S took out a 25 year interest only mortgage for £161,999, on a variable interest  
rate. He had a serious road accident in 2007  and wasnt able to work afterwards. In May 
2008 he made two lump  sum mortgage  payments totalling £8,456.13. This was taken off his 
mortgage balance.  
In September  2018, Mr S contacted BM. He said that benefits of £217.53  were  being paid to 
his mortgage,  but the monthly payments were  going  up to £312.06. That would mean  a 
shortfall of £94.53 a month, which he couldnt pay. He said his mortgage balance  had been 
£151,076 at the end of June 2018.
Mr S complained because  BM wouldnt agree to let the £94.53 monthly shortfall  increase  
until his balance went up to the amount of the original loan. 
BMs final response didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that Mr Ss request had been 
refused because his mortgage didnt allow overpayment sums to be refunded. And the 
payments had also been made some years  earlier. BM recognised  that Mr S would be 
disappointed, but it pointed out that doing as Mr S wanted would have  negative  effects for 
him. The lump sums hed paid off had reduced  the balance.  So if BM let Mr S use these 
amounts, the balance  would increase again.  That would mean his monthly payments due 
would go up. And when  the funds from the overpayments had been  used up, Mr S would be 
left with a higher mortgage balance than he now had  and higher monthly payments.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He wanted BM to accept just the 
benefits payment,  and let the balance  increase  back to its original level. He said an 
alternative would be for BM to refund the £8,456.13 overpayments to him. He also told us he 
was in negative  equity.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that when Mr S had made  his 
overpayments, theyd been applied  to the mortgage  in the way set out in the terms and 
conditions of his mortgage. This meant  the interest  Mr S was being charged reduced.  
The adjudicator didnt think BM was unreasonable to refuse Mr Ss request to use the 
overpayments to cover the shortfall  for the next few years. It wasnt  a facility that was 
available for Mr Ss type of mortgage. BM had acted responsibly by making Mr S aware  of 
the next steps  but there was no evidence Mr S had tried to contact BMs collections team  
as the bank had suggested.  The adjudicator  recognised  that Mr S had said he was worried  
that the bank might  start legal  proceedings,  and he urged Mr S to get in touch with the bank 
to sort out what could  happen in the longer term. He also gave  Mr S contact details for some  
debt charities.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators view. He said he needed BM to refund his 
overpayments, and accept just the benefits payments, until his mortgage reached the initial  
loan amount. He said his mortgage was currently one month in arrears,  but actually it should  
be £10,000 in credit.
Ref: DRN18891242 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ss mortgage offer, to see what it said about making  overpayments. 
Section 11 of the offer said:
You are free to make lump sum or regular overpayments to this mortgage, however the 
early repayment charges  detailed in Section 10 will apply if you make  lump sum or regular 
overpayments within the period that these early  repayment charges apply. 
If you do make a lump sum payment  or overpayment then the amount  you owe, and the 
amount of interest  you are charged, is reduced  immediately.  This means  that you will get the 
benefit straightaway.
Mr Ss mortgage only had an early repayment  charge for any extra payments during the first 
two years,  so that no longer applied when he made his payments in 2008. But this section of 
the mortgage makes  it clear that lump  sum payments would be used to reduce the balance   
and therefore  the interest  payable  straightaway. Thats  what  was done  when  Mr S made 
his lump sum payments totalling £8,456.13.  Theres no evidence  that any different 
agreement was made when Mr S made  his lump  sum payments. 
And the mortgage  offer makes no provision for a borrower to have  the right to ask for any 
such repayment back, a few years later. So BM didnt  have  to allow  this. I dont find that his 
account should be £8,456.13 in credit, as Mr S claims.  
Financially, as BM explained to Mr S, what hes requested wouldnt be to his long-term 
advantage, because hes been  charged  less interest  ever since  he reduced the balance in 
2008. Letting the balance  go up would increase the mortgage balance, and therefore 
increase how much  interest  Mr S would be charged.
BMs final response letter recommended speaking to the banks collections team to try to 
find a plan for Mr S to pay his mortgage  in a way that would work for both Mr S and the 
bank. I havent  seen any evidence that Mr S has contacted the collections team since  the 
final response letter. Hes told us that hes worried about legal action to possess  his property 
if he doesnt meet the monthly payments due. Id suggest that it would be wise for Mr S to 
talk to BM to try to find a way forward, and also to talk to the debt charities whose contact 
details the adjudicator provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019
Belinda Knight
Ref: DRN18891243ombudsman
Ref: DRN1889124