K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society unnecessarily delayed  the 
completion of their house purchase.  Mr and Mrs W would like appropriate compensation and 
Mrs W to be reimbursed for the unpaid leave  she had to take.
background
Mr and Mrs W were moving to another part of the country and buying a property with a 
Nationwide mortgage  at the end of 2018.  The valuation dated  25 September  required  a full 
retention because  of concerns that the standard  of the wall construction was below the 
lenders requirements. Despite this Nationwide issued a mortgage offer on 15 October for 
the purchase price  of £451,000. Mr and Mrs W got a structural survey  done  and were able to 
negotiate a price reduction  to £445,000. When Nationwide got this information  on 7 
November, it seems  to have been  alerted  to the full retention. So, Nationwide  requested  the 
structural engineers  report and on 15 November informed Mr and Mrs W that it had 
rescinded the existing  mortgage offer. Completion was expected to take place on 26 
November.
Mr and Mrs W provided a structural engineers report but this was rejected  as it wasnt in joint 
names. The revised report that Mr and Mrs W submitted wasnt acceptable  as it didnt 
include a quotation  for the upgrading of the walls.  Nationwide didnt send the correct  report 
to the valuer and it was rejected. It was resent and the valuation report was amended to 
£431,000 with retention of £20,000. It seems that then the mortgage offer couldnt issue  
because of a technical issue but eventually Nationwide sent the mortgage funds for 
completion on 28 November 2018.
Nationwide offered Mr and Mrs W £750  for their inconvenience and distress  and offered  to 
pay for Mrs Ws unpaid  leave  from work  subject to an employers letter. Our adjudicator  felt 
that this was fair. Mr and Mrs W asked for a review,
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seem  to have been a series of errors here by Nationwide. The original valuation report 
with a nil valuation should have raised the issue of the requirement for a structural  engineers  
report earlier if proper attention had been  paid to it. Following on, the mortgage  offer was 
premature but would unfortunately  have given Mr and Mrs W the impression that everything 
was fine when there was still the hurdle of the structural survey  to be crossed. There 
appears to have been further difficulties as Nationwide didnt make clear  to Mr and Mrs W 
that the report should contain quotes for the work  to be done to the walls. Then it seems that 
Nationwide didnt transmit  the amended report to the valuers.  Mr W clearly spent a lot of time 
in the week after 23 November trying to sort all this out. Mr and Mrs W hoped  to complete on 
26 November but completion was delayed.
I have read carefully  Mr Ws submissions and can understand entirely  Mr and Mrs Ws 
annoyance. They obviously planned  this move  carefully and everything should have fallen 
into place but for the errors  from Nationwide. I also understand how frustrating it must have 
Ref: DRN11827062seemed at the lack of direction they were getting  from Nationwide.  Thankfully they had 
alternative accommodation at this time and their sale had completed before this purchase.  I 
am also conscious that apart from wanting  into the house with their young child,  Mr and Mrs 
W would have been under some  pressure to complete  as their lack of a mortgage was 
holding up completion  which  their seller wouldnt have appreciated. This was not the position  
Mr and Mrs W intended to be in.
On the other hand, Mr and Mrs W did get their mortgage although  a week  later than intended  
and Nationwide  has offered to reimburse Mrs Ws loss of her weeks pay which I approve.  I 
have to put a figure on what compensation would be due for Mr and Mrs Ws for the trouble 
and upset they undoubtedly suffered. I have  given this careful consideration but believe that 
the offer made by Nationwide of £750  is appropriate for that. As Nationwide has already 
offered this I wont be making any further  award and so I cant  fairly uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1182706