K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  call centre staff provided 
incorrect information regarding how long it would take for two cheques to become cleared 
funds (£12,384.52 each, totalling  £24,769.04).
background 
On 18 December 2018, Mr L deposited two cheques in his local Santander branch and was 
informed that they would clear by 20 December. 
Later that day he called  the Santander call centre to find out if a transfer  he actioned earlier 
had been made. Mr L explained that he had been out, so he was unsure if any attempts had 
been made to call him, if additional security checks were needed.  He was informed the funds 
had left his account, but in order to find out if the funds had left Santander or if an attempt 
had been made to call Mr L, the security team would need to be contacted. Mr L was placed 
on hold for almost an hour before someone  from that team was available  to take his call. 
During this time, the call handler returned  to Mr L to make sure he was still ok to hold a 
number of times. Each time the call handler  returned  to Mr L, he expressed his 
dissatisfaction with being on hold for so long, especially given the simplicity of his question. It 
was explained  to him that only the security team could say if they had tried to call him. 
Mr L explained that he wasnt happy with the length of time this was taking, and stated he 
wanted to raise a complaint. He also wanted  to confirm what he was told whilst in branch, 
with reference  to when the cheques would be in cleared funds. The call handler  had to place 
Mr L on hold to find this out. Unhappy with being  placed on hold again, for something he felt 
was a simple question,  Mr L queried this. It was then explained  to him that due to the bank  
holidays approaching  this needed  to be checked.  Mr L was then informed that he was given 
incorrect information in branch,  and that the funds would not clear until 24 December. 
The call handler insisted  this was the right information after being  asked if they were  sure 
more than once,  and Mr L specifically stated that he wanted to move the funds. 
Consequently, Mr L stated he wanted his complaint  to include that he was given the wrong 
information whilst in branch. The call handler then made a note of this and explained that 
someone from the complaints team would call him within  48 hours. Mr L was then 
transferred to the security team to deal with the transfer request he had originally called  
about.
As part of Santanders investigation into this complaint, it was identified that the call handler 
had given Mr L the wrong information with reference to when the cheques  would  be in 
cleared funds; and how long it may be before the complaints team  made contact with him. 
The final response  letter stated that the two cheques did in fact clear  on Thursday 20 
December and that the correct timescale  for the complaints team to make  contact  should  
have been three working days.  With reference  to the length of time Mr L was on the call for 
(the majority of which was spent on hold for the security  team),  Santander apologised for this 
and explained  that they cannot control the volume  of calls they receive. An overall apology 
was made  for the service  Mr L had received,  and an offer of £25 was made for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. 
Ref: DRN13007182Unhappy with this, Mr L brought  this complaint to us and set out the reasons  why he felt 
£100 would  be a more appropriate compensation payment.  
Santander contacted us whilst our investigator  was carrying out their investigation, to 
increase their offer of compensation  to £50.
Our investigator explained why they felt this was a fair offer, however Mr and Mrs L do not 
agree and explained that they had to take extra  steps by returning to their local Santander 
branch to get the right information. This has therefore been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is undeniable  that Mr Ls call to Santander  was lengthy given he was only checking  two 
points. And I appreciate  his annoyance at the time it took to get through to someone in the 
first instance  and the additional time taken to get through to the security  team.  Given the 
time of year (and consequently  the likely increased annual leave taken by staff),  it is more 
likely than not, that the waiting times  experienced is not typical of Mr and Mrs Ls experience 
with Santander.  I would  agree that Santander  cannot control the volume of calls they 
receive, and it is not for the Financial Ombudsman  Service to direct  any organisation to 
increase their staffing  levels.   
As part of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, they state they have been promised an enhanced  level 
of service because they are Select  Account customers. According to their website, 
Santander provide  24 hour dedicated  call centre support to their Select Current  Account 
holders. I do not think the service Mr and Mrs L received  was adequate in this instance and I 
understand why they feel this has fallen short of the level of service theyd expect. 
I have considered the impact of Mr L receiving conflicting information regarding  when the 
cheques would be in cleared funds.  It is without question that Mr L was given  incorrect 
information when  he called Santander.  And I can understand the frustration this would have 
caused and the immediate disappointment, as Mr and Mrs L have informed us that they had 
planned to purchase a specific  Bond product with these cleared funds. However,  the 
cheques did clear as per the information received in branch, and Mr and Mrs L were able to 
purchase the specific Bond product, if they still wanted to do so. Therefore, there has not 
been any financial loss. 
They have clearly  experienced some  inconvenience  however, as a result  of the incorrect  
information receive during the phone  call. My understanding is that further  steps were taken 
by Mr and Mrs L in order to ascertain with certainty,  whether  the cheques  would clear  in time 
for their plans. And having listened  to the call, I do not doubt  that Mr L was frustrated by the 
conflicting information. I am also sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs L have  health  problems, and I 
believe the extra steps taken were an inconvenience. I must balance  all of this with what 
Santander did, and consider a proportionate sum in acknowledgement of Mr and Mrs Ls 
overall distress and inconvenience.  
Mr and Mrs L have described  Santanders  actions as negligent.  I have to consider what is 
fair, reasonable and proportionate to the circumstances.  I have taken into consideration the 
length of time the incorrect information  was thought  to be true; coupled with the overall 
duration of the call and the points I have discussed pertaining to that, and the extra steps 
Ref: DRN13007183Mr and Mrs L took to ensure they had the right information regarding the cheques.  As a 
result, I think the new offer made by Santander  is more appropriate and proportionate given 
the circumstances, than the original offer. And so, I will not be directing them  to pay a 
greater amount than what has been offered.  
my final decision
I am aware  that Santander  UK Plc has made an offer to pay £50. I conclude that such  an 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Santander UK Plc 
should pay Mr and Mrs L £50 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Chantelle Sayles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1300718