K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by Blue Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality. She wants to reject the vehicle 
and end the agreement.
background
Mrs T tells us at the end of May 2018, she entered into the finance agreement  through a 
dealer Ill refer to as C. She says faults  with the vehicle  had to be repaired before  she was 
able to collect it on or around  14 June 2018.  On 18 June, Mrs T says she took the vehicle to 
a local garage  Ill call N. N reported that there was an air intake leak. On or about 28 June 
she says C took the vehicle  back in for repairs. Mrs T subsequently reported  further  faults 
and told us she had the vehicle examined by N at various  times  between July and October 
2018. She says that other faults  were identified  including  with the steering rack, a slipping 
clutch and a repeat of the air intake leak. And she says a vehicle health  check in November  
2018 revealed more faults with the vehicle including loose steering and a leak from a shock  
absorber. By December  Mrs T reports the vehicle as no longer able to be driven.
BMF told us it had issued a final response  letter in July 2018. At that time it said it had 
upheld Mrs Ts complaint about the faults  reported to it in June 2018. And it indicated  the 
vehicle had been taken by C for repairs. It said it had then received a further  complaint  from 
Mrs T on 20 August 2018. This had referred  to a fault with the clutch  and clips missing from 
underneath the vehicle. BMF told us it had requested evidence  from Mrs T about the faults - 
but said shed  not supplied this. It also noted  that Mrs T had informed it that the fault with the 
clutch happens when  she was driving the vehicle at around 87 mph - which  it said was 
considerably above  the legal speed limit. BMF said it had told Mrs T it was willing to pay for 
an inspection of the vehicle but she had declined to accept this. And it pointed to her having 
covered over 5,791 miles between June and November 2018. As it said it had not been  
provided with evidence of the most  recent faults  it had closed the complaint.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said the issues 
which Mrs T had raised were likely to be wear and tears issues.  He found the vehicle  was 
about nine years old with over 87,000  miles covered when it was supplied to Mrs T. And that 
by November 2018 the mileage had increased  to almost 93,000 miles. In the absence of a 
report to show the faults  were present  at the point of supply he didnt think  he could say the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs T has experienced  some issues with this vehicle. And Im aware  this has also 
come when shes been experiencing health  concerns.  So I understand this has been a 
difficult time for her. 
Mrs Ts hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN10538032Where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make a decision on a balance of probabilities. That is I decide what I think  is the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened.
This vehicle  was nine years old when supplied to Mrs T and at its latest  MOT, in May 2018, 
the recorded mileage was 87,233.  So its to be expected a vehicle of this age and with this 
amount of use will be liable to more faults  and require more  maintenance than a less well 
used model. Its also the case  that numerous  advisories were  recorded which  indicated  the 
vehicle would probably soon need maintenance to several areas, including  brakes, tyres and 
exhaust.
Its not disputed  that the vehicle encountered problems with the air intake system in June 
2018. This is acknowledged by BMF. Although the vehicle appears to have been taken in by 
C for repairs Ive not seen  information about what, if any, repairs were  carried  out. And as C 
has now gone into liquidation its unlikely any further information will become available.
Mrs T took the vehicle  back  but she raised  another  complaint with BMF, on 20 August, about 
a slipping  clutch and clips missing from underneath  the vehicle. BMF asked for evidence  of 
these faults but I cant see this was supplied at the time. 
It also appears BMF offered Mrs T the opportunity  to have the vehicle independently 
inspected but she seems to have  declined.
Subsequently, Mrs T has provided information about the condition of the vehicle from N who 
examined the vehicle on 7 October  2018.  And shes also supplied  details of a vehicle health  
check carried out by a firm Ill call D.
In a letter dated 11 November 2018 N reports it inspected the vehicle on 7 October  2018  and 
found the same air intake problem. But it also made reference to two earlier occasions when 
it had examined the vehicle  including  issues with the steering in July and the clutch slipping 
in August.
Ds health check, dated 12 November,  identified problems with loose steering; slight  leak 
from shock absorber; oil leaks from engine gearbox area; radiator fan loose and various 
tyres being worn  and/or damaged. But it made no mention of any fault with the air intake.
Ive previously referred to the CRA which  requires  goods to be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. And satisfactory quality  is defined as being what  a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. Normally, if goods  dont  conform to contract within  six months of 
supply its presumed  they did not comply at the point of supply.
But I think all the issues which have been identified with this vehicle can reasonably  be 
described as being  the result of wear  and tear - which  is to be expected in a vehicle of this 
age and usage - rather than any inherent defect at the time of supply.
Its also fair to say that Mrs T has covered an above average mileage in the time shes  had 
the vehicle. In the five months between  the May MOT and the vehicle health  check  in 
November the vehicle covered over 5,000 miles.  This is despite Mrs T being  aware  of some 
of the faults. And its a reasonable inference from the information Ive seen about  the type of 
usage this included - relating to speeds  attained and the transporting of heavy  water  carriers 
- that the vehicle  was being pushed  up to and seemingly beyond its limits.
Ref: DRN10538033Ive come to the conclusion that theres  insufficient persuasive information to show the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. The issues which  have been 
identified are more  likely to be the result  of expected wear  and tear and relate to serviceable 
items which would  usually require replacing  at some point. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to say that BMF  should  be responsible for repairing the vehicle.
So whilst I know my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mrs T, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1053803