K820x#14complaint
Mr O, Director of Company T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC for short)  has 
treated the Company unfairly  in relation to notifying  him of its intention  to close  its account.
background
Mr O says HSBC  should  have done more  to tell him that it planned to close his Company 
business account than send a letter. He says this caused a great deal of inconvenience 
because he had to have the company restored after being dissolved to get the money back 
from the government  body where  the balance of the account at closure  was paid.
HSBC says it was notified  that Mr Os company  was to be dissolved. So it wrote to him to 
say it would close his account also. It then wrote  to him just after his company dissolved so 
it. But receiving no contact from Mr O it sent the balance to the government  body that it is 
meant to. So it doesnt feel its done  anything wrong.
Mr O complained on behalf of Company T. HSBC felt that its position with regard to this 
complaint was fair in the circumstances.  Mr O didnt  agree. So he brought the Companys 
complaint to this service.  The investigator did not agree with Mr O and said HSBC position 
was reasonable.  As Mr O remains  unhappy  his complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
HSBC wrote to Mr O at the address it held for him in April 2017 about the imminent  
dissolution of his company  and told it what its process for such situations was. Mr O didnt 
respond. So it wrote again in June 2017 a couple of days  after Company T dissolved 
explaining what it was to do. The address it used for its letters is that which  it had on its 
records so there is no mistake there. This was the same address on Companies  House  so I 
dont think it was on notice that the address it held was wrong.
Mr O says he told HSBC in June  2016 that hed moved address. But hes not been able to 
provide any evidence to support this from that time. HSBC has no record  of being informed 
of any change at that time. It appears that Mr O didnt change his address with Companies 
House at this time. So all in all Im not persuaded that HSBC  has made a mistake  here.
Mr O has made substantial arguments  about HSBCs advertising of how many forms of 
media account holders can communicate with it through.  And I do have some sympathy with 
his standpoint.  However  it is not for this service to comment on the commercial positions of 
businesses and this would include how it chooses  to communicate with its customers. For 
me to uphold this complaint I have to be persuaded on balance of probabilities that HSBC 
had made  a mistake  and that Mr O suffered as a consequence. But HSBC  sent the letter to 
the address it had on file and it hadnt  agreed with Mr O to communicate  in any specific 
manner. So I dont  think it did anything wrong  in writing to the address of the company  that 
held the account.
Ref: DRN17847752So all in all I think HSBCs position on the matter is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So I wont  be asking it to do anything  further  on this matter. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc by 
Mr O a director of Company T. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O on behalf of 
Company T to accept  or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1784775