K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt  got copies of all the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by 
since the sale took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account  the evidence available,  
what  both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
From experience I think the type of form used at the time of the sale would  have given       
Mr and Mrs H a choice about  whether to tale the PPI and the level of cover  they required.  
Ive also seen copies  of documents and letters addressed to Mr and Mrs H that confirmed 
the cover  that had been put in place. And I note the policy remained in place for some  time 
until 2005. It was paid by direct  debit separately to the mortgage. If it was something that 
had not been discussed or that Mr and Mrs H didnt want, Id expect them to have 
questioned the premiums  at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that they did so.
Mr and Mrs H have told us they were pressured  into taking the PPI, being told that the PPI 
would help their mortgage application to be approved. Pressure  is a subjective issue  and if 
Mr and Mrs H only agreed to the PPI to obtain the mortgage, it seems unlikely theyd have 
continued to pay the premiums  for almost  three  years after the mortgage completed.  
Santander advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy.  So I do think it is likely the advisor  
told them  they should apply for the policy, but thats not the same  as telling them they had to. 
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs H were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
Mr H was the main wage-earner, and the policy was set up to provide  cover for him only.   
So the policy  was set up correctly.
Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
There seems  to have been  a need for the cover. Mr H has told us his employer would only 
have paid full sick pay for three months, followed  by a further three  months half pay. But the 
PPI sold by Santander couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr H was too 
unwell to work. So it would have been useful for Mr H, particularly if he became too unwell to 
work for a prolonged period. 
Ref: DRN14238912Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.         
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to                     
Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what theyve said about 
trying to make a claim  in 2005 and being told they couldnt. 
Mr H has told us he became unemployed in 2005 and went  to a Santander branch to find out 
about making an unemployment  claim. Mr H has told us a member of staff said he could not 
make a claim on the policy. Santander has said it has no records  of a visit and it has 
checked with the policy insurer who also has said they have no records.
I have checked  the policy  terms and conditions,  and the policy did cover  Mr H for involuntary  
unemployment. And it looks like Mr H was eligible for the policy and wasnt caught by any of 
the exclusions or limitations.  So if Mr H had become  involuntarily unemployed he should 
have been able to make a claim.
I have no doubt  Mr H visited the branch when he became unemployed but after so many 
years I cant  know  what was said or discussed. But Ive seen copies of the welcome pack  
sent to Mr and Mrs H in 2002 which gave details  of how to contact the insurer directly to 
make a claim.
But in any event in this decision Ive looked at whether the policy  was mis-sold in 2002,  and 
for the reasons Ive given  I dont think it was. But Mr and Mrs H may still be able to make a 
backdated claim on the policy. If they wish to do this they should  contact the policy insurer.    
I can see Santander has given Mr and Mrs H contact details for the insurer  in its letter  from 
November 2017.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN14238913Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1423891