K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Society  of Lloyds  has declined  their park home buildings  
insurance claim for damage  to their wardrobes.  
background
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim under  their park home buildings policy in April 2017 following 
their discovery that there was damp in their wardrobes.  Mrs D had been cleaning  out the 
cupboards in their static  caravan when she found  damp patches in two corners  of the 
wardrobe. Mrs D thought there might have been  a leak from the roof. 
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to validate  the claim  who in turn sent a contractor to 
inspect the damage  and identify what had caused  it. The contractor reported that the 
damage wasnt caused by one of the insured events covered by Mr and Mrs Ds policy. He 
said there was no evidence of any water  ingress.  Instead he thought it was most likely  to 
have been caused by condensation and had nothing to do with an insured event. 
The loss adjuster notified Mr and Mrs D that their claim  wasnt  covered because the damage 
theyd reported  wasnt the result  of one of the insured events their policy covered them for. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  that Lloyds said their claim wasnt  covered. They said theyd 
had their downpipes moved  in 2016  by their own contractor who had made new holes for the 
fixings without filling the old ones. So they thought the old downpipe fixing  holes  couldve  
been the source of the water ingress. 
Lloyds contractor looked at the claim again.  He said the damage caused  by Mr and Mrs Ds 
contractor was in a different area of the home so he remained of the view that the damage 
reported by Mr and Mrs D was the result  of condensation which  wasnt  covered by the 
policy. The contractor reported to Lloyds that the corners  of the wardrobe suffered from poor 
ventilation so were  susceptible to condensation build up. But he said the only area that the 
mould was growing on was on the mastic  sealant.  So he recommended Mr and Mrs D had it 
changed to anti-mould  resistant sealant and to have small  vents installed. 
The contractor also said that, whilst  he didnt think the amount and position of mould  growth 
could be related to an escape of water, he couldnt  be 100% certain without removing  all the 
cladding to the home to complete a trace and access. The loss adjuster tried to arrange with 
Mr and Mrs D for the contractor to re-attend  to provide a quote  for doing so but Mrs D said 
she didnt want them to come back. So the contractor provided a quote based on the 
photographs and details  available  from his previous visit. 
In January 2018, Mrs D told the contractor she didnt want  any further investigations  carried  
out. The loss adjuster  told Mr and Mrs D it was closing its file but Mrs D told it she didnt 
want the claim closed. The loss adjuster said the claim  couldnt  be progressed  without  
further investigation. Mrs D said that the park home maintenance team had told her the 
damage was caused when  the downpipes  were  moved and the screw holes for the previous 
pipes were left unsealed.  The loss adjuster requested further details from the park home  site 
office and when it was unable to obtain any further information it rejected  the claim based on 
the available  information. 
Ref: DRN14766562Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied with Lloyds  decision so they complained to this service.  
They said the mould wasnt just on the sealant and they said there were unhappy with the 
delays on their claim. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt think  their claim had been unfairly 
declined by Lloyds  so he didnt recommend that it was upheld.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with our investigators  findings. They said theyd never said the 
contractors couldnt  come out again.  They said the old downpipe fixing  holes had now been  
filled and there was no longer any damp.  So they said the damp had clearly  been caused by 
the old open holes and not as a result  of condensation. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, Im unable to uphold  their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a homeowners  home insurance policy.  
Only damage caused by one of the insured  events  listed  in the policy  (fire, theft, escape of 
water, flood,  storm, accidental damage etc.) will be covered. If a policyholder is able to show 
that the damage has been caused  by one of the events listed  then the insurer must pay the 
claim unless  it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. Here, Lloyds says 
that the damage Mr and Mrs D have  claimed  for hasnt  been  caused by one of the insured 
events listed in the policy. So, it says, the claim isnt covered. 
Lloyds sent its expert  out to investigate the cause of damage and, having inspected  it, it was 
the experts view that it was likely  to have been  the result of condensation. I cant  reasonably  
ignore the experts view. Even if I were to ignore it, I would need  to be persuaded that the 
damage was covered  by the policy terms. 
Having reviewed the photographs, I agree with Mr and Mrs D that the damp/mould isnt 
confined to the sealant. But looking at the insured events listed  in the policy,  Im unable  to 
see which one of them couldve caused the reported damage.  There  is no report of a storm 
nor of any water leaking from a fixed tank, appliance or pipe. Mr and Mrs D also have 
accidental damage  cover on their policy. But for the damage to be covered by the accidental 
damage event it mustve occurred suddenly  by external means which  is not expected and 
not deliberate.  The nature of the reported damage   damp  and mould  isnt something that 
happens suddenly  and unexpectedly. So I dont  think it would be covered by the accidental 
damage event either. 
So I dont  think,  in the absence of any evidence to indicate otherwise, that Lloyds has 
unfairly said the reported damage isnt covered by the policy.  
Even if I were to accept  that the damage mayve been caused by water  getting  into the 
insulation as a result of the old fixing holes being left unfilled, I still remain of the view the 
damage isnt covered  by Mr and Mrs Ds policy. Thats because  damage  even accidental  
damage  thats  caused gradually and/or is the result of poor workmanship (such as this is) 
is excluded from cover. So even if the unfilled holes, rather than the condensation, were the 
cause of the damage, the claim still wouldnt be covered. Indeed  I can see that the loss 
Ref: DRN14766563adjuster mentioned this in its letter to Mr and Mrs D notifying them  that the claim was 
declined. 
Mr and Mrs D also complained that Lloyds took a long while  (13 months) to finally  notify 
them that their claim was declined. Having reviewed  the evidence however I cant  say that 
Lloyds caused  any un-necessary delays. I can see that Lloyds waited to communicate its 
final claims decision to Mr and Mrs D so it could complete  further investigations because 
they had disagreed with its initial findings.  The further investigations,  and the time they took, 
werent unreasonable in the circumstances.  
I have to decide if Lloyds has unfairly  declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim and I have to say that I 
dont think it has. Unfortunately  for Mr and Mrs D the damage their caravan sustained  wasnt 
caused by something  that was covered by their policy so I dont think  Lloyds treated them 
unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476656