K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim for 
subsidence under  his buildings  insurance policy.
Mr M is being  represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr M.
Any reference to AXA also includes  its contractors.  
background
In 2015 Mr M noticed some damage to an extension on his property and he contacted AXA 
to make a claim. AXA investigated and said the damage had been caused by subsidence. It 
investigated some nearby  trees  and concluded  these had been the cause of the subsidence. 
The trees were removed  a few months later.
Following the removal  of the trees,  the property was monitored for around seven months and 
finished in August 2016. AXA said the monitoring had shown there  were  no significant 
changes in movement,  so it said the property  was stable. AXA produced a schedule of 
repairs it intended to carry out to fix the damage.
Mr M didnt  agree with the schedule of repairs. He said it wouldnt make the extension level.  
He hired his own surveyor to inspect the damage  in late 2017. Mr Ms surveyor 
recommended the extension  be demolished and rebuilt.  So Mr M wanted  AXA to cover the 
cost of this. AXA didnt agree, as it said Mr Ms surveyor  hadnt  undertaken any further 
monitoring to reach  their conclusions. 
Mr M went ahead  and had the extension demolished and rebuilt  around  May 2018. He also 
extended his property further when  it was rebuilt.
Mr M complained that AXA hasnt  agreed  to cover  the cost of demolishing  and rebuilding the 
extension. He said AXA underestimated the damage that had occurred to the property and 
didnt think the repairs could have adequately reinstated the extension.  He said the 
extension wasnt vertical  and so it wasnt level with the rest of the building. He complained  
AXA wouldnt give a guarantee for any work  it would  have carried out. AXA said it would 
cash settle the claim for what  it would have cost them  to carry out the repairs. But it didnt 
agree to do anything  more.
Our investigator thought AXAs report was more persuasive in its recommendations for 
repair works. She thought AXA had acted reasonably in saying the property was stable and 
she didnt think it had been shown that the repair works recommended by AXA were 
inadequate. So she didnt think AXA needed  to pay for the extension  to be demolished and 
rebuilt. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He responded with a number of points, but in summary said the proposed 
repairs would have  left the extension with a lack of verticality. He said this was shown by the 
conservatory door, which wouldnt close properly. He also didnt agree that the property was 
stable in August  2016 when the monitoring  had finished. He said further cracks had 
appeared which showed the property was still moving.  
Ref: DRN15477802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA accepts  Mr Ms property  had suffered subsidence. So the only thing for me to consider 
in this decision is whether AXA provided  a reasonable repair schedule and whether it was 
reasonable for AXA to say the property was stable in 2016. 
AXA has produced  a monitoring report carried out from January to August 2016.  And it said 
the results of the monitoring showed  very little movement at the property. So it noted  the 
property was stable.  Ive looked at the results  of the monitoring  of three  separate  cracks in 
the dining room.  And I can see these  do show  very little movement. Monitoring was carried  
out over a reasonable period of time, including over different seasons. The monitoring was 
carried out from the winter  months into the summer  months. I find it likely that if there  were  
still issues being caused by vegetation, this would have affected  the widths  of the cracks 
over this period.  Because it didnt I think AXA came to a fair conclusion  here.
After AXA proposed its repair schedule in December  2016, Mr M said a new 5mm crack had 
appeared in the conservatory  that had previously been repaired. It seems  this was 
previously repaired at the start of 2018. Unfortunately  AXA didnt arrange to come  out and 
undertake any further investigations in relation to this. And by the time our investigator 
contacted AXA, the extension had been  demolished.
Its unfortunate AXA didnt take any further  action following this correspondence; I think it 
should have arranged for another site visit to take place.  But having looked  at everything I 
dont think there is enough to say the property  was moving in early 2018 when the new crack  
was reported.  Mr Ms report from his surveyor didnt include  any further monitoring results, 
either of the new crack or the ones monitored  during 2016. And its difficult to know  what has 
caused this crack or when it appeared. So on balance I dont think Mr M has shown the 
property was still moving or that any new damage was so extensive that demolishing the 
conservatory was the only way forward.
Mr M has said the subsidence had caused the extension to be around 30mm  from being 
vertical. And this distortion had meant the French doors wouldnt close properly.  He didnt 
think the repairs proposed by AXA would  fix the issue of the extension not being vertical or 
the French doors being able to close. He provided  his own report which said the most 
appropriate course of action  would be to demolish the extension  as it couldnt be repaired.
Ref: DRN15477803Ive looked carefully  at the repair schedule provided  by AXA. In this, it included  an amount 
for repairs to the door from a UPVC  specialist. The schedule says this is to adjust the door 
and renew the lock, given Mr M said there  were problems with securing the door.  Mr Ms 
own report dated October 2017 notes issues with the door not sliding properly. But it doesnt 
provide any commentary  on the repair proposed by AXA and why it wouldnt be possible for 
a UPVC specialist  to repair it. So I dont think Mr M has shown the repair schedule in relation 
to the door was inadequate.  
I accept the repairs  were unlikely to have restored the property to being  vertical as Mr M 
wanted. AXA has said this is an aesthetic issue only and the lean was minimal. Mr M was 
concerned the slant of the extension would still be visible  and could impact a future  sale of 
the property. Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ms policy,  this says where a valid claim is made 
it will decide  whether  to repair or replace.  In this instance it has decided a repair  would be 
sufficient, and based on what Ive seen I dont  think this is unreasonable.  And Im not 
persuaded that the conservatory  not being  vertical means it was more  appropriate for AXA to 
have agreed for it to be demolished. From  what Ive seen this was a minimal  difference, so 
this alone is not enough to for me to conclude the repairs proposed were inadequate.
Whilst I can understand why Mr M thought demolishing the extension  and rebuilding  was the 
best course of action  for him, this doesnt  mean  it should be covered as part of the policy.  
Overall Mr Ms comments havent persuaded me that a demolition of the extension  was 
necessary to repair the damage caused by the subsidence.
AXA has said it will pay Mr M what it would  have paid to carry out the repairs  to the property; 
based on everything Ive seen  I find this is reasonable. So Im not going to ask AXA to do 
anything differently.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1547780