K821x#15complaint
Miss P and Mr S have complained about repairs  carried out by Aviva  Insurance  Limited after 
they made a flood  claim under their home  insurance policy.
background
Miss P and Mr S made a claim to Aviva because water was coming up from the ground into 
their property.
Aviva accepted the claim and carried out repairs. These included putting  in a concrete  
slab to the lounge, hallway and dining room and replacing concrete slabs in the driveway 
and carport.
Miss P and Mr A complained to Aviva  after they had moved back  home.  They said 
theyd noticed  a number of defects in the repair works and their kitchen had been  left in 
a dirty condition after the works. Aviva agreed  to some of the repairs. But it said it 
wouldnt repair/replace  the following:
   hallway and bay window skirting  boards;
   soakaway drain  above  level of concrete in the carport causing water to pool by their 
front entrance;
   the slanted  and damaged carport roof;
   damage caused by foam;
   damage to the porch;
   damage to under stairs cupboard;
   doors  and frames;
   the stained  stair carpet;
   the kitchen and hall floors not being  level where  they adjoin  each  other;
   damaged kitchen drawer and shelves;
   kitchen floor;
   the damage to bay windows in the lounge;  and
   damaged conservatory window.
Aviva previously agreed to re-turf  or reseed the lawn.  It said it hadnt done  this since 
Miss P and Mr S hadnt raised this as an issue after the works and so it had assumed the 
lawn had recovered  in the meantime.
Miss P and Mr S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator recommended  that 
Aviva should  carry out repairs to the front lawn, the hallway and the bay window skirting 
boards and make good the finish to the under  stairs cupboard. She also thought  the kitchen 
required cleaning. Lastly she recommended that Aviva should pay compensation of £150 
for the trouble and upset  it had caused Miss P and Mr S by not completing  the repairs  
properly.
Apart from the damage to the under stairs  cupboard (which it didnt comment  on) Aviva 
agreed to the recommendations. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
Ill deal in turn with each of the alleged  defects that Aviva hasnt agreed to make good.
Ref: DRN18108412water pooling on concrete  in carport
Where an insurer chooses to settle  a claim by carrying  out repairs,  I expect it to indemnify  
the consumer  by carrying out an effective  and lasting repair.  In this case it doesnt appear to 
be in dispute that the soak  away  drainage  is above the level of the concrete on the carport  
and that means water doesnt drain away  properly. I dont think thats an effective repair.
Avivas surveyor  said the water might have  been draining away  through  the cracks 
previously and the new concrete was the same thickness as the original.  Miss P and Mr S 
have provided  evidence from their surveyor that there was no mention of this being a 
problem when they had a survey carried out before they bought the property  in 1999. Aviva 
said there was very little that could be done other  than to put in some channels  to prevent 
the pooling from occurring. I accept that if this were to be done, Miss P and Mr S would end 
up with a better carport than they had prior to the flooding. But if thats the only way to 
prevent the water  pooling, then it seems to me the only fair solution.
carport roof
Again its not disputed  that the car port roof is slanted. I need to decide whether or not this is 
as a result  of poor workmanship by Avivas  contractors.
The carport  roof was propped up when the concrete  slab was replaced. Miss P and Mr Ss 
surveyor reported:
The steel  supports to the car port roof have not been correctly re-located  after temporary  
supports to the roof were  removed  to facilitate the building works. These are clearly  out of 
true resulting  in pooling on the roof.
The car port roof doesnt appear  to have slanted  previously  and the bottom of the steel  
supports werent  buried in concrete  before the repair works. So I think  its likely that Aviva 
has caused the roof to slant  and in order to treat Miss P and Mr S fairly, it should  put this 
right.
Miss P and Mr S also say that the felt roof has been  damaged as a result of the works. 
From photos  taken before the works started  I can see that the felt wasnt in a very good 
condition then and it appears to be much the same now. So Im not persuaded that Aviva  
damaged the felt.
insulation foam
Miss P and Mr S say that a large  amount of foam came onto their property  from their 
neighbours property which blocked  their drains  and gutters.  They think  Aviva  should 
have taken steps to stop this. I dont think that was Avivas responsibility. But I can 
understand that Miss P and Mr S might  have expected Aviva to tell them about this since 
they werent living in the property at the time. Even  so that might  not have  enabled them 
to prevent it from happening. Ive taken the failure to notify into account when looking at 
compensation.
porch
Miss P and Mr S say that Avivas contractor damaged their sill and glued  it back  into 
place. Aviva says that it was cracked before the repair  works  started  and glued back  into 
place at the request of Miss P and Mr S. From what I can see, there was damage in this 
area in 2015.  So Im not persuaded that Aviva caused this damage.
Ref: DRN18108413under stairs cupboard
Miss P and Mr S say that the cupboard door is warped and the door stops  need  finishing. 
I havent seen  evidence that the door is warped but agree that Aviva should make good  
the finishing in this area.
doors and frames
Miss P and Mr Ss surveyor reported:
Previous flood damage has caused some  door frames and possibly the doors  to 
warp slightly.  Some  of the door stops  have not been  adjusted to allow for this.
Aviva agrees  that some doors  and frames are warped  but doesnt think  this damage  was 
caused by the flood.  In view of the ground  water coming into the property and the 
dampness it caused, I think  its likely that the downstairs doors  and frames  have warped as 
a result of the flood  damage. So in order to treat Miss P and Mr S fairly  I think  Aviva  should 
adjust the door stops where necessary on the ground floor of the property.
stair carpet
Aviva has said the carpet was worn and marked before the works started. Looking at 
photos of before and after the works I cant see much difference  in the state  of the carpet. 
I dont  think it would be fair to require Aviva to replace it.
kitchen and hall floors  not being level where they adjoin each other
Although these floors arent level where they meet, it appears from photos that this was 
the case with the original  flooring. I dont think Aviva treated  Miss P and Mr S 
unreasonably by replacing  the flooring at the original levels.
damaged kitchen drawer and shelves
The kitchen drawer slopes on an angle when its opened. Miss P and Mr S also say some  
shelves have been replaced  with shelves of a different colour. I havent  seen any 
evidence to show that Avivas responsible for this. It didnt carry out any work to the 
kitchen units.  I dont think it would be fair to require  it to make good these defects.
kitchen floor
Miss P and Mr S think Aviva should  have replaced  this. Aviva said it didnt  because  unlike 
the timber ground  floor in the rest of the property this was a solid concrete floor. Miss P and 
Mr Ss surveyor hasnt  suggested that this should  have been  done. I also havent seen any 
evidence that this floor was affected by damp. So I think  it was reasonable for Aviva  not to 
replace it.
bay windows in the lounge
The framework and seal to this window  are damaged. Aviva says it didnt carry out any work  
in this area. Some damage to the framework can be seen in a photo taken before the works. 
In the absence of any evidence that Avivas contractor caused this damage,  I dont intend  to 
require Aviva to make this good.
conservatory window
Miss P and Mr S say that Avivas contractor left a window open  in the conservatory, allowing 
a neighbours  ivy plant  to spread into it. They think the window became  jammed when the 
contractor removed the ivy. I havent seen any evidence to support this. I also note it wasnt 
included on the consumers original snagging list. So I dont propose to require Aviva  to do 
anything about  it.
Ref: DRN18108414other repairs
Since Aviva has agreed to the other  repairs and works recommended by our investigator, 
I dont need to consider  those further.
compensation for trouble and upset
Aviva has caused a degree  of trouble and upset  to Miss P and Mr S by the defects in its 
repair works. I think its right that Aviva  should compensate  them for that. Taking  into 
account the impact  on them I think £150  is appropriate in the circumstances.
Neither party made any comment in response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comment  on my provisional findings,  I see no reason to change 
them and they now form the findings  of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
           returf or reseed  the lawn;
           repair the hallway and the bay window skirting boards;
           clean the kitchen;
           repair the carport to prevent water pooling;
           adjust the supports of the car port roof to make the roof level;
           make good the finishing to the under stairs  cupboard;
           adjust the door stops where  necessary on the ground floor of the property; and
           pay Miss P and Mr S compensation of £150 for trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1810841