K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 2000  at the same time as taking out a store card.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold  the complaint. Neither 
Mrs L nor FICL had anything further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because:
Mrs L signed  on the application  form to show she wanted PPI, separately to where she 
signed to apply for the card. So I think FICL made her aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs L doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based  on what  I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying it.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ls comments, including  what  shes said about her level of sick 
pay and savings. But these points dont change my conclusion. Before issuing my 
provisional decision I contacted Mrs Ls representatives and her directly by email to ask for 
more details (specifically her salary  in April 2000  and how much she had in easily 
accessible savings at that time), but she didnt  provide any further information. Nor has she 
done so in response to my provisional  decision. So I cant  say that her level of sick pay and 
savings wouldve caused her to think the PPI wasnt worthwhile if shed been given clearer 
information about its cost and benefits.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1133953