K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a personal loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI in 1999 at the same time as she arranged  the loan over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she arranged the loan in a branch of Nationwide and that PPI wasnt spoken 
about and that she was unaware that it had been attached  to the loan.  Therefore  it was 
added without her knowledge  or consent.  However,  Nationwide has provided evidence that 
the loan and PPI were  arranged over the phone.  Therefore  Im not persuaded that Mrs C has 
any clear recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it took place.
Theres no recording of the phone call. But I have seen a copy  of the loan agreement  that 
was sent out to Mrs C to sign following  the phone call. I can see that the policy  is described  
as optional credit  insurance . The full cost of the policy, including interest,  is then set out in a 
separate column. Mrs C has signed  the form at the bottom.
From what  we know of Nationwides sales process, there would have a discussion about PPI 
and then the loan agreement was printed  out afterwards. If someone didnt want PPI then 
there would be no mention of it on the loan agreement. So I think Mrs C would  have queried  
why the loan agreement included PPI if it hadnt  been mentioned  previously or if, as she 
says, she didnt want it.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs C has said. But on balance  I think that she would have 
known that the policy  was optional.  It seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that 
she didnt have to. But, as Ive already mentioned, Im not surprised if Mrs C cant  remember 
this as the sale happened so long ago.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mrs C to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
her needs.  But it still had to give Mrs C enough  information about the PPI so she could make 
an informed choice about whether or not it was right for her.
Mrs C would have received between three and six months sick pay from her job. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs C would  
have received full pay for. Mrs C said she had some other means  of making  the repayments 
if she couldnt work, although she hasnt  explained to us what these were. She told 
Nationwide that family  would  have  helped. But other  people cant always be relied  upon  as 
Ref: DRN15175732their circumstances can change. So overall  I think Mrs C had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted  from it. 
As Ive already  mentioned,  the full cost of the policy was set out in the credit agreement. So I 
think Mrs C would have known what she was paying  for the insurance.
The cancellation terms meant that Mrs C would have received a proportionate refund, so she 
wouldnt have been disadvantaged if shed wanted to settle the loan and cancel the PPI 
early (which in fact she did do). So I dont think more information  about the cancellation  
terms would  have made a difference.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided clearer information about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs C wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mrs C had an interest in the PPI and decided  to buy it, I dont think 
more information  would  have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs C isnt any worse off 
as a result  of anything  Nationwide  may have done  wrong, so theres  nothing  Nationwide 
needs to do to put things  right.. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1517573