K820x#14complaint
Mr T feels that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
massage machine he purchased from abroad  through a marketplace  trading website which  
he says was defective. 
Background
In December 2019 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to not uphold  the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Barclays Bank UK Plc has agreed  with the position  set out in my provisional decision.  Mr T 
has said hes received  the decision and has no further comments  to make.
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional decision and having considered 
the matter again I see no persuasive  reason to change my position.  Consequently, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I do not 
uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14578962COPY OF DECISION
complaint
Mr T feels that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) has treated him unfairly in relation to a massage 
machine he purchased from abroad through a marketplace trading website  which he says was 
defective. 
background
Mr T purchased a massage  machine from a vendor in a different country through  a website which  
acts as a trading website.  On receiving the goods,  he says it didnt work properly  and had bits 
missing. So, he complained to the website  and didnt  get what  he wanted in terms of a solution from 
the website.
So, he complained to Barclays and wanted to pursue a solution  to his problem through  either the 
chargeback process  or under Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
Barclays investigated  the matter but didnt  agree with him. It says he didnt provide what it needed to 
be able to raise a chargeback (which may or may not have been successful) and that the type of 
transaction he was complaining  about didnt  fall under Section 75. Mr T didnt  agree so he complained 
here.
The investigator didnt feel any part of Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Mr T doesnt agree. So, this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered  the matter, I broadly agree with the investigator at this stage but for different 
reasons. So, in the interests of fairness to both parties I am issuing  this provisional decision  to allow 
both parties  to fully understand my position so that they have a fair opportunity to understand and 
respond to points which I think are key to this complaint that, so far, theyve  not had opportunity to 
address.
There are two possible  avenues  for this complaint  to follow, namely a Section 75 claim under the 
relevant legislation  or via the credit card chargeback  process which  is under the chargeback scheme  
rules administered  by the card scheme provider.
The general  effect  of section 75 is that if Mr T has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of
contract against a supplier of goods or services he can also bring  that claim against Barclays provided  
certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there  must be a debtor creditor-supplier (d-
c-s) relationship.
This means  there needs to be pre-existing  arrangements  between  Mr T, Barclays and the vendor that 
sold the machine. Mr T used his Barclays credit card to pay the trading  website. The website then 
paid the vendor  of the machine. This means there was no pre-existing arrangement between  Barclays 
and the vendor  only between Barclays and the trading website. Therefore, there is no d-c-s 
relationship in relation to the massage machine that didnt work/wasnt complete because  Mr T didnt 
pay the vendor  directly.
If there  was a relationship - known as an associate relationship - in place
between the website and the supplier  then there would  still be a d-c-s  link. The relationships which 
qualify as associates are clearly defined in the Consumer  Credit Act. Ive investigated the relationship 
between the parties. And whilst they did have some form of relationship since the website took money  
on behalf of the supplier,  they are not associates as defined  by the Consumer  Credit  Act.
Ref: DRN14578963Mr T may well argue that he shouldnt be expected to understand  the implications of paying a third 
party. And I can well understand his frustration both with the technicality  which means hes not getting  
his money back. But that doesnt mean I can say Barclays should  refund him, or that its done 
something wrong by not telling him about the d-c-s implications  of paying a third party. Barclays 
wasnt under  any obligation to do this. All in all, Ive not seen enough to make me think  that Barclays 
was wrong to turn down Mr Ts section 75 claim.  The conditions required to make  a claim under 
section 75 were not met.
The chargeback process is administered by the scheme provider and provides  a process  for banks to 
recover funds for its account holders in certain situations.  Broadly speaking banks should decide 
whether to make a chargeback or not. But wed generally consider it good practice  for a chargeback 
to be attempted where there  was a reasonable  prospect  of success. If they do, then they must  do so 
properly. The vendor then receives that chargeback and may agree  to refund the payment  or may 
contest the chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Barclays here) should consider this and then if it 
still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback to the scheme provider  who will 
then make an independent determination on the matter.
In this case Barclays has decided not to raise a chargeback. It has said that it considered Mr Ts 
correspondence with the website about this issue. But it notes that it doesnt  have any supporting  
evidence to show the goods were faulty. And Mr T hasnt returned the goods due to what he says is 
the high cost of doing so. 
As it stands if a chargeback was successful, hed have the goods and the money  and neither the 
supplier nor Barclays would have evidence  to show there was something wrong with the goods. 
Barclays then says:
I can confirm that we did request proof via an Independent Assessment report, that the goods were  
faulty and the cost of repair. This was done both via telephone and in writing to Mr T. We asked Mr T 
for a quotation  for repair  on 7 September via telephone, which  Mr T confirmed he would get to us over 
the weekend. After  nothing was received, we called  Mr T on 11 September  chasing this request, 
which Mr T told us he hadnt given it much  thought. We advised at this time we would send  a letter  to 
remind him for this but if we did not receive  the information we would  issue a final response letter 
without it. I can confirm that despite Mr T stating we didnt,  we did send a letter dated 11 September  
confirming we did require  this information. As nothing was received,  we issued our final response 
letter confirming our position on 26 September 2018.
So, its clear  to me that Barclays has tried to get the evidence it needs to support a chargeback in the 
situation where  the goods  arent returned. But Barclays isnt obliged  to raise  a chargeback.  It can 
consider the merits  of the chargeback request  from the consumer (Mr T in this case) and if it 
considers it doesnt have  a realistic prospect of success then it can decide  not to make a chargeback. 
Bearing in mind  that the goods havent been  returned and there is no persuasive  supporting evidence  
to back  up Mr Ts position  then I dont consider Barclays has treated Mr T unfairly by not raising a 
chargeback at this time.  Ultimately Barclays  asked  Mr T to provide an independent  assessment  report 
and Mr T hasnt done so. And even if he had Barclays could fairly decide  not to make a chargeback 
(even though  wed generally expect businesses to try a chargeback). And even if Barclays had raised 
a chargeback it could easily not be successful as the process is as Ive described earlier.
In short, Ive considered everything  that Mr T has said. I appreciate how Mr T feels  about  the whole 
situation. However,  all in all I currently dont  think  Barclays has treated him unfairly with regard to the 
Section 75 issue or the chargeback. So, I currently think this complaint shouldnt succeed.
Ref: DRN14578964My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to not uphold  the complaint  against Barclays 
Bank UK Plc.
I now invite  both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within  the timeline described  
above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1457896