K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  as a director of S, a limited company.  She is unhappy Santander UK Plc 
authorised a payment from her business  account after she cancelled the direct debit.
background
In mid-February 2019, Miss S cancelled a direct debit that was in place on her business 
account. She did this online after watching  an instructional video on Santanders website. 
However, the direct debit  payment  was taken from her account  around two weeks  later.  
Miss S was unhappy  this happened and called Santander about  it.
Santanders adviser explained  the direct debit should  have  also been cancelled  with the 
business taking  the payment. Thats to prevent the business setting up the direct debit again.  
Miss S said she hadnt been told she needed  to do this. She also said that under the direct 
debit scheme it was Santanders responsibility to get her money back.  
Miss S said she wasnt able to contact  the business  that took the payment from her business  
account. So Santander said it would start an indemnity claim. It agreed to refund the 
payment back to Miss S business account.  And explained that it would need to send the 
money back if the business that took the payment said the money  was still owed.
Miss S remained unhappy. She said she wasnt required to cancel the direct debit with the 
business who took the payment. Santander explained the terms and conditions of her 
business account required Miss S to do this. As Miss S remained unhappy she brought  her 
complaint to our service. Miss S wanted  the video she watched removed from Santanders  
website. She also wanted  to be compensated for the inconvenience this problem caused.
Our investigator looked into Miss S complaint.  He explained the terms and conditions of 
Miss S business account required customer to notify the relevant business when cancelling  
a direct debit. He said Santander  had refunded the direct debit payment. And he couldnt see 
that her business hadnt suffered a financial loss. So he didnt  think Santander needed  to do 
any more.
Miss S disagreed with our investigator. So her complaint was passed to me to look into. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, so Ill explain my reasoning  
below.
When investigating this complaint, I first looked at the terms and conditions of Miss S 
business account. Thats because they set out how the account should be managed  by 
Miss S and Santander.  This document has a section about cancelling direct debits. And it 
says Santanders  customers  should contact the business who collects  the direct debit if they 
want to cancel it. Contacting the business you have an agreement with is also recommended 
under the direct debit guarantee. So I cant fairly say Santander  has acted unfairly  by relying 
on this particular term.
Ref: DRN14782332Miss S says this term wasnt in the terms and conditions  when she first opened her business 
account. But its not unusual for terms and conditions to be updated over the lifetime of an 
account. Ive not seen  any information to suggest  Miss S has problems receiving 
correspondence from Santander. So I think its most  likely she would have received updated 
terms and conditions as and when they were sent out.
Ive watched the video  about cancelling direct debits  on Santanders  website. And theres no 
mention of contacting the business collecting the direct debit. It would have been helpful if 
the video included this step. But I cant ignore  the fact its most  likely Miss S would have  had 
a copy of the terms and conditions  for her business account. So she had the relevant 
information she needed before she cancelled the direct debit.
Santander was sent instructions to reinstate the direct debit shortly  after it was cancelled. 
I appreciate Miss S says she couldnt  contact the relevant  business.  But that wasnt 
Santanders fault  or something  it could  solve. Santander wasnt aware of the issue  
between Miss S and the business  collecting payment.  So, I dont consider Santander was 
wrong for acting on the instructions to reinstate the direct debit.  
The direct debit guarantee  is intended  to protect  consumers if the wrong payment is taken 
from their account. Its not a means  to settle  disputes between consumers and the relevant 
business they have an agreement with. Santander credited Miss S account on the same day 
it was made  aware  the direct debit  payment  shouldnt have been taken. This is in line with 
what I would  have  expected Santander  to do under the direct  debit guarantee.
I understand that it would  have been  inconvenient  for Miss S to contact Santander to get this 
matter sorted. However, I cant  ignore the fact Santanders customer  is Miss S business. 
And that business  is its own legal entity. Ive not seen any evidence  that shows Miss S 
business suffered  following the direct debit payment. I also cant ignore  the fact the funds 
were refunded five days after they were taken. And thats because that was the time it took 
for Santander to be told about the problem.  So Im satisfied Santander took the correct steps 
to resolve this problem.  And it did so quickly.
From the evidence Ive seen, it seems no further direct debits were taken by the business  in 
question. Santander gave  Miss S the correct information when she contacted it. And it has 
acknowledged the video on its website could have provided clearer information. But the 
terms and conditions of Miss S business account clearly  explain what customers  need to do 
when cancelling  a direct debit. And our service doesnt have  the power to make  Santander  
change its website. 
Ive taken everything into consideration. And I wont be asking Santander  to do anything  
more to put things  right.
Ref: DRN14782333my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1478233