K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint against Commsave  Credit  Union Limited (Commsave) is that it continued to 
irresponsibly lend to him after he told it about  his gambling addiction. 
background
Mr M had a loan with Commsave. On 17 February 2015, he notified it that he had a 
gambling addiction;  was in financial difficulties; and wanted to agree an affordable 
repayment plan to pay off his borrowings.
Despite this, Commsave continued to provide him with further/additional borrowing. He says 
this made  his position worse, given his vulnerability.  He didnt think it had acted fairly or 
responsibly towards him. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Commsave responded saying it didnt believe it had done anything  wrong. It explained  that it 
conducted credit checks, and ran full affordability  assessments, each time a customer 
borrowed. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Commsave hadnt treated Mr F 
fairly. She noted  Mr F had told it he had a gambling addiction, and asked for agreement  on a 
repayment plan so he could pay back his existing  debt in 2015.  But that it had kept on 
lending more to him.
She acknowledged that Mr F had the benefit of the money he borrowed,  but she didnt think  
Commsave should have  given it to him. So she upheld  the complaint and recommended  that 
Commsave refund Mr F all interest and expenses  it had charged him on new borrowing  
since 17 February 2015.
Commsave didnt agree with this. It said it was a responsible lender, and conducted full 
credit checks and affordability assessments each time it issued a loan to a customer. It 
asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Im in agreement with our Investigator.  I dont think Commsave did enough  
to help Mr F. Indeed,  I can see how it contributed in making matters  worse for him.
Commsaves told us, generally,  that it carries out full affordability checks on all loans before 
granting them. This may well be true. It may also be true that this was done for Mr F. 
However, doing these  checks  was only part of Mr Fs story. Commsave also had the 
knowledge that he had a gambling addiction, and was therefore vulnerable. So even if the 
affordability assessments showed that Mr F could afford the repayments, thats not enough 
to satisfy me that the lending  was affordable.  I think  Commsave  should have looked at the 
full circumstances,  and taken Mr Fs vulnerability  into account. Had it done so, I think it 
would have made different lending decisions.  Instead, it doesnt  seem to have been  
mentioned.
Ref: DRN14038592I also agree  with our Investigators  suggested  redress. Mr F borrowed,  and spent,  the money 
 so I wont be asking  for any capital  sums  to be refunded. But I do think Commsave  should 
refund all interest and charges from any new borrowing from 17 February 2015 to date. And, 
in the circumstances, if Mr F still has existing borrowing with it, this money  should  be 
credited against  that. Any fund left over can be paid directly to Mr F.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve matters, Im asking 
Commsave Credit  Union Limited to refund all interest and charges applied to any additional 
borrowing by Mr F after 17 February  2015.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1403859