K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined his home  insurance  
claim after he discovered water damage.
The policy is held in Mr Fs name, but he brings  his complaint with Mrs F.
background
Mr F made a claim for water damage to the ground  floor of his home.  He says the damage 
was discovered when removing flooring and skirting  boards ready to lay a new floor. Mr F 
provided Lloyds  with a report  from his surveyor:
-When carpets in the lounge area were removed,  skirting boards were found  to be 
saturated and several severe cracks  in the concrete floor were  revealed.
-Water  has been coming  through the floor where the cracks have sheared through  the 
damp proof membrane, and its been  soaking into the skirting boards.
-The cause of the dampness is an excessively  high water table, which will become a 
continuous problem  seasonally.
-The skirting boards, kitchen units,  and doors should be removed  and the concrete 
and hard-core should be dug-out,  and replaced,  along with a new damp proof  
membrane. The works  were  estimated to cost £14,000.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to assess  the claim, and he met Mr Fs surveyor  on site. All 
the flooring, and some of the skirting, had already been disposed of before  his visit. The loss 
adjuster noted  the concrete floor slab appeared dry, but the readings showed signs of damp. 
He also reported  all the walls were showing signs of damp up to one meter high, and certain 
areas showed signs that this had been happening over time  such  as salting and rusting  on 
corner beading. The loss adjuster commented  that he and Mr Fs surveyor agreed the 
damage was being  caused by a rise in the water table, and not a one-off flood event.
The loss adjuster declined the claim,  and Mr F complained. But Lloyds maintained  the claim 
decision on the basis the damage was consistent  with a gradually operating cause that had 
been ongoing over time,  rather than a one-off insured  event.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service.  It was considered by one of our investigators,  and 
she initially  thought  it should be upheld. She was persuaded that a high water table could be 
considered a flood;  and based on the photos  she concluded although water may have built-
up gradually, she didnt  think  Mr F could reasonably have known about  it, until water came  
up through the flooring.  So, she thought the damage  should  be considered under Mr Fs 
flood cover and it wouldnt be fair for the gradual damage policy exclusion to apply.
Ref: DRN13478862Lloyds then pointed  towards a claim  in 2011, when Mrs F reported four floor tiles had lifted  in 
their kitchen and water  damage  to a skirting  board.  In 2011, Mrs F told Lloyds that a builder 
suspected water could  be entering through cracks in the floor, but this couldnt be confirmed 
until their flooring had been taken up. At that time,  Lloyds asked Mrs F to provide a cause of 
damage report, but Mr and Mrs F didnt follow this up. Lloyds also said the photos from the 
recent claim  showed the damage had been there  for a long-time and it highlighted what it 
believed to be water  stains,  damp, and rotten skirting boards. It also said its position had 
been prejudiced, in terms of being able to assess the recent claim, by the disposal of the 
flooring and the skirting boards. So, in view of the previous  claim and the recent photos, 
Lloyds thought Mr F had known there  was a problem for years. 
Furthermore, Lloyds didnt agree there  had been  a specific  incident  of flooding. It said it had 
checked the weather for a month  before the claim and there wasnt much  rainfall,  and the 
post code has a very low risk of flooding. It also said a rise in the water table isnt a flood. 
Lloyds commented  that the cracks  in the floor were more than likely from the original 
settlement of the house. 
Our investigator considered Lloyds comments and changed her outcome   she didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld. She was persuaded the damage had occurred gradually 
and Mr F ought to have  been aware of the problem in 2011. So, she thought the gradual 
damage policy exclusion could be fairly  applied. 
Mr F disagreed with our investigators outcome, so his complaint has been  passed to me for 
a final decision.  Hes explained that when  the affected kitchen tiles were removed in 2011, 
there wasnt any indication of a problem. Mr F said if there  had been  a problem, damage 
would have been noticed before now; and it was never established that what the builder 
assumed in 2011, about the cracks,  was correct.  
Mrs F has since clarified that a tiler simply refitted the lifted  tiles in 2011. She said they were  
told the tiles had lifted because they hadnt  been  fitted properly, and the skirting board had 
been damaged  from washing machine condensation.  She also said all the flooring in the 
now affected areas was replaced with laminate in around 2013, and no cracks in the 
concrete floor, or water  damage,  was identified at that time.  She explained they had 
assumed the more  recent wall staining  was also being caused  by condensation.  
Mrs F has also confirmed  they discovered  the cracks to the concrete floor and water damage 
when they were recently having their laminate flooring  and skirting  replaced throughout their 
lounge, hallway, kitchen  and dining room. She clarified they arent  claiming for their laminate 
flooring, skirting, or decorations as this work was being done anyway. Mr Fs recent claim is 
only for the concrete floor below.
Ive spoken to Mr Fs surveyor. He explained the damp proof  membrane is painted  on, so its 
immediately compromised  once  the floor cracks.  He said it could have cracked  as a result of 
pressure caused  by a high water  table; or over time, the water  could have caused the hard-
core to become  soft and to drop, causing  the floor above to drop and crack. He said there  
had been lots of rainfall  in the preceding  summer  months, and there werent any signs of 
settlement in other areas  of the property. He also considered it plausible  that the damage 
wasnt noticed until the flooring was lifted, due to water being absorbed by materials  and 
underlay, which would have fluctuated between dry and wet.
I shared the surveyors comments with Lloyds, and it responded with its own chartered 
engineers observations:
Ref: DRN13478863-There isnt any evidence of a high water table  at Mr and Mrs Fs property, and theres  
a difference between  a high water table  and rising damp. The engineer believed that 
rising damp was the issue here,  i.e. moisture  from the earth following rainfall,  being  
drawn up through building materials.
 
-In his experience  of digging bore-holes, unless the area is hit by extensive and 
prominent flooding,  the water table isnt usually beneath the surface.
-Theres been no testing or analysis by excavation to show  the water table level, or its 
usual location.  A presence of a water  table at some depth doesnt  mean  it will cause 
damage. The water table would need  to be directly beneath the building  and higher  
than the foundation or floor.
-He didnt consider  a high water table could  exert  enough pressure on a floor to cause  
it to crack, or cause the hard-core  to become soft and to drop. He said even if ground 
water was to saturate  up to floor level, the water would simply overwhelm the ground  
bearing slab, rather than physically lifting it up until it cracked.  He also said the hard-
core material  is generally an igneous type of crushed rock which is impermeable to 
water, so it wouldnt absorb water and change  state to become soft.
-The damage and crack patterns were the common  symptoms associated with long-
term differential floor slab settlement, caused  by the inevitable slightly different  rates  
of hard-core consolidation across  areas  of flooring. He said this is a process that 
goes on for years  and is very common in ground bearing floor slabs  of this type.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained that based on the arguments 
presented, I was more  persuaded  the concrete floor had cracked due to settlement (which  
isnt covered), than high water table flooding.  So, I said I didnt intend to uphold  Mr Fs 
complaint. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mr F is covered for flood damage. Lloyds initially accepted the damage had been caused by 
a rise in the water table, but it didnt consider this to be a flood. It said a water table rises 
naturally, over a long period of time,  rather than being a sudden  one-off event.
Mr Fs policy terms dont  define a flood, and damage  caused  by a rise in the water table isnt 
specifically excluded. This service usually follows  the approach taken  by the courts, and the 
Court of Appeal established  a flood could occur  gradually, and through a slow and steady 
build-up of water  regardless  of the source. So, Im satisfied damage  caused by a high 
water table could be considered a flood.  
However, Lloyds is now of the opinion that the damage has been caused by settlement. The 
policy excludes settlement, which the terms define  as: downward movement of the ground 
beneath the buildings due to the weight of the buildings. So, what I need to decide here is 
whether the damage was more likely caused by a high water table as described  by Mr Fs 
surveyor, or by settlement  as described  by Lloyds engineer.
Ref: DRN13478864This service is generally reliant on the technical expertise of others. When  theres  a dispute 
about damage, we consider the submissions of those involved to decide  what,  on balance, 
we are more persuaded by. We generally  place more weight on the submissions of those 
considered to be industry experts. But here, we have opposing views from two suitably 
qualified individuals.  Nonetheless, Im more persuaded by the comments  from Lloyds 
engineer, than Mr Fs surveyor. Ill explain why.
Mr Fs surveyor explained the concrete floor could have cracked  due to a build-up of water 
lifting the floor, or due to the hard-core becoming  soft causing the floor to drop. But in my 
view, neither scenario has been  shown,  on balance, to be the likely cause. There  hasnt 
been any testing  or analysis  to show the depth  or location of the water  table, or how its 
impacted the materials in question.
In any event, Im not persuaded  that a gradual  build-up of water  would  cause concrete to lift 
and crack.  I consider  it more likely that the water would have found  a less resistant path, as 
it generally does. Ive also seen information that supports what Lloyds engineer says about  
hard-core being  of low absorbency. Therefore, Im not persuaded the hard-core would have 
become soft from the water and caused  the floor to drop. So, on balance, I consider it more  
likely the concrete floor cracked due to settlement  of the ground  or materials below, than 
high water table flooding.
I note Mr Fs surveyor said there were no other signs of settlement  at the property. However, 
Lloyds has provided  information which explains its unlikely that external walls, or those  built 
off independent foundations, would be affected by floor settlement. So, Im not persuaded 
settlement isnt the cause of the damage  to the floor simply because there arent signs of 
settlement in other areas  of the property.
The onus is on Mr F to show  the concrete floor damage was caused by an insured event, 
and Im not persuaded hes done that. Therefore, I intend to decide Lloyds hasnt unfairly  
declined his claim.
Lloyds also made  arguments  about  gradual damage being excluded  by the policy  terms, and 
Mr and Mrs Fs awareness of a problem long before  they acted.  However, because  Im not 
persuaded the damage was caused  by one of the insured events listed  in the policy,  
I dont need to go on to consider those arguments here.
Both parties  have since confirmed they have nothing  further  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided further comments  for me to consider. But having reconsidered 
the information we already held, I have  reached  the same  outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F. But for the reasons  Ive set out above, and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN13478865Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1347886