K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt  with their request 
for assistance under their travel insurance  policy. 
My references to UKI include its assistance company.
background
Mr and Mrs R have travel insurance linked to their current account. UKI is the insurer.  While  
on a European  holiday Mrs R tripped and fractured  her pelvis  and three ribs. 
Mr R asked UKI for assistance. Initially it looked as thought Mrs R might be able to return 
home as planned,  but due to her level of pain this proved  impossible. They were staying in a 
family villa at the time, and the local doctor said she wouldnt  be fit to fly for around one 
month after her accident. In the end Mr R arranged their trip home.
Mr and Mrs R complained  about the service theyd received. UKI upheld  the complaint in 
part and offered £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. They rejected this and 
returned UKIs cheque. They came to us.
Our investigator thought UKIs service had been  poor in several  areas and he recommended 
it increase the compensation to £400  in total.  Mr and Mrs R said theyd accept that amount 
as the matter had caused them a lot of distress  and they wanted it finalised.  UKI didnt agree 
£400 was fair. So the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs Rs injuries  meant that she was in a lot of pain and there was a concern about  her being 
fit to fly. She struggled both to sit and to walk. Mr and Mrs R looked  to UKI to help them with 
their return  journey as they were unsure about  what to do. They felt very let down by UKIs 
response.
UKI itself has accepted  that its service could have been better, but it says £200 
compensation is fair. I dont think it goes far enough.  I broadly agree  with our investigators 
findings and I think £400 compensation, in total, is fair and reasonable for their distress and 
inconvenience. Ill focus on the issues with which UKI disagrees.
Our investigator found that UKI should have  explained  why a road ambulance wasnt  a 
suitable option, given Mr R had raised  this shortly after Mrs Rs accident. UKI says that 
matters had moved on and Mr R had discussed coming home by air. Also hed not raised it 
again. I accept  that but I agree that UKI could helpfully  have  explained that this wasnt  an 
option it would consider  to manage Mr and Mrs Rs expectations. They  wouldnt have 
realised how the process would work  and I think part of the overall problem was that UKIs 
communications werent always  clear.  
Our investigator mentioned the distress caused  when UKI emailed and then called Mr R late 
at night to arrange a taxi to the airport the following day. UKI accepted this wasnt 
appropriate and had been in error   it had called them instead of a different consumer. UKI 
Ref: DRN13619772says this issue was quickly resolved  and wouldnt materially have added to the distress.  But 
I think that it added to Mr and Mrs Rs lack of confidence in UKI and caused them additional 
distress at a time Mrs R was in pain and worried about how shed get home. So it is correct 
to take it into account when  reviewing  compensation. 
Ive also read UKIs comments  in response to the concern that Mr and Mrs R felt under 
pressure to come home. UKI says it will make the repatriation decision, in consultation with 
treating doctors.  It says there  was no justification for Mrs R to remain  abroad for one month 
after her accident.  
Mrs R had been advised by her doctor  that it wouldnt be safe for her to fly. UKI has referred 
to its medical notes which say that, as at 24 September, Mrs R was fit to fly by stretcher with 
a doctor  escort. A stretcher repatriation with medical escort would  likely  have been much 
more expensive for UKI than its agreement that she fly home  later in line with her doctors 
advice, not least  as she and Mr R were staying in a family members villa. So I dont think 
UKI was prejudiced  by Mrs Rs decision to remain abroad even if it was entitled under the 
strict policy terms  to say it wouldnt cover her any further unless she returned  home.  
As UKI accepts there were periods of a few days when Mr and Mrs R werent contacted.  
When they did call they didnt always receive a good  service.  Most assistance companies 
use different staff across  a 24/7 shift pattern but Mr and Mrs R were told theyd have  a 
nominated person. This raised their expectations  of the service theyd receive. 
Overall I think  Mr and Mrs R were caused  additional  distress and inconvenience at a time 
Mrs R was in severe  pain that wasnt initially  being controlled by medication. Taking into 
account all the evidence I think a fair outcome is for UKI to pay compensation for this and 
I assess £400, in total,  to be a fair and reasonable amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part. 
Within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs R accept my final decision I require  
U K Insurance Limited to pay them  total compensation of £400 for distress  and 
inconvenience. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest*  on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  until the date of payment at 8% per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs R a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1361977