K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs S in 1996  in 
connection with a joint mortgage.  The policy provided cover for Mr S if he couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs S the information they needed  to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs S say PPI wasnt discussed when  they took out their mortgage  with Halifax,  and 
they didnt know  it had been  added  to their account.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs S and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful  that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
So without anything  else to support  what Mr and Mrs S have told me, I havent been  able to 
safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware  that the PPI was optional. 
Ref: DRN11640002Halifax advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mr S was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr S says he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because  of 
sickness or accident. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his employer benefits and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think Mr and Mrs S would have had some use for the 
policies despite  their existing arrangements.  
-Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs S needed  
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs S before they agreed  to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs S would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1164000