K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited has recorded a claim on 
his motor insurance record.
background
A claim  was made against Mr M for an accident in which a car was damaged.  LV dealt with 
third partys  claim  and settled it on the basis that it couldnt defend it without clear evidence 
Mr Ms vehicle  wasnt involved. 
Mr M isnt happy about this. He says he wasnt the driver and his car wasnt  involved.  No 
one else had permission  to drive his car and it wasnt damaged.  He believes a neighbour 
cloned his cars registration plates. Hes unhappy that his premium has increased as a result 
and he wants the accident removed from his record.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The third party has evidence their car was damaged with red paint  that matched that 
on Mr Ms car. And the driver of Mr Ms car was at the scene, admitted liability  and 
gave an address. But Mr Ms car has subsequently been written off and wasnt  
available for LV to inspect. LV has also investigated Mr Ms suggestion that his car 
was cloned by a neighbour who has moved. 
Mr M says he wasnt at the accident scene. But the question  is whether it was his 
car. Based on the available evidence it would  be hard for LV to defend  the third 
partys claim  and show Mr Ms vehicle wasnt involved. LV has therefore agreed to 
accept liability and settle the third partys claim.
Its not for us to determine issues of liability. Thats for a court. Mr Ms policy says LV 
is entitled to take over and settle  a claim.  And here Mr M is unable to show  his car 
wasnt involved in the accident. As result LV has acted reasonably by accepting  
liability. And she will not be asking  it to do anymore.
Mr M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says he cannot 
understand how someone can just decide he is guilty without proving a case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms frustration at whats happened  as he says neither he nor his car was 
involved in the accident. 
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only a court can 
consider. We can only look into whether the underwriter of the policy,  in this case LV, has 
conducted a reasonable  investigation into a claim, when making its own decision on liability 
and settlement.
Under the terms of the policy LV is entitled to defend  and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also 
doesnt need Mr Ms approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a 
Ref: DRN10972212payment to a third party. LV also isnt obliged to take a case  to court  even if the policy holder 
would like it to do so. Its entitled to consider the chances of success, the economics and 
potential costs and risks of proceeding to defend  the case.
In this case I think LV has investigated  matters reasonably. It considered  what the parties 
said. Its unfortunate that Mr Ms car wasnt available for inspection as itd been written  off 
but the third partys  description of the car involved and the traces of red paint  appear  to 
match Mr Ms car. LV has also investigated  the possible  identity of the driver and the 
suggestion Mr Ms car was cloned.
Having considered all the available evidence LV didnt think  it could successfully prove that 
Mr Ms car wasnt  involved. And it decided to accept liability  and settle the third partys claim.
Mr M may disagree  with LVs interpretation  of the evidence and decision to settle the claim 
on this basis but I dont think its failed to comply  with the policy terms or exercised its 
discretion unfairly  or unreasonably when deciding to settle the case  as its done. 
Mr M says he cannot understand how someone  can just decide he is guilty  without proving a 
case. But that isnt what LV has done. Guilt is something only the criminal courts can find. 
Here LV has made  its decision based  on what it thinks would most likely happen on the 
balance of probabilities if the case was progressed in a civil court. And it has concluded that 
the available  evidence wouldnt prove  that it was more likely Mr Ms car wasnt  involved, than 
not. I dont  think thats an unreasonable conclusion.
I understand Mr Ms frustration and strength of feeling. But taking everything  into account I 
dont think LV has done anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably  require it 
to do anything more  including removing this claim from Mr Ms record as hed like.
Overall I dont see a compelling  reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1097221