K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited shared information about him 
with third parties without  his consent. And in doing  so breached  his data protection  rights.  He 
wants the information removed from his credit  file and compensation.
background 
Mr H tells us that BMW  shared his personal  information with third parties without his 
permission. And he states that this was a breach  of General Data  Protection Regulations 
(GDPR). He also complains that some  of the information it supplied was incorrect  to the 
point of being libellous. Mr H explains  that the circumstances started  around  late 2018, early  
January 2019.  He states that he acquired a vehicle  from a dealer Ill refer to as DL. It 
proved to be unsatisfactory and it was agreed that hed exchange that vehicle for a new 
vehicle. Mr H says there  was a delay  in the processing of the new finance application. But 
when this was actioned around  11 February  2019, he was surprised to learn that hed been  
declined finance.  On checking  his credit file, he says he discovered that BMW  had made 
three submissions including to a fraud  prevention agency Ill refer to as N". Mr H complains 
that these submissions contained  incorrect and misleading information about him.
BMW told us that prior to proposing a customer to a prospective lender, dealers were  
required to inform a customer  how their personal information would be used by credit 
reference agencies  and fraud  prevention agencies. It said that the two dealers - DL and 
another business Ill refer to as EH which were involved  in applications relating to Mr H, 
had said hed been made aware of this. It denied that any information  it had supplied  to the 
agencies was false, defamatory or misleading.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 July 2020. I said I was intending to 
uphold the complaint but only in part. As BMW had already agreed to remove  details of the 
application processed by EH I didnt think I needed  to make any further comment about this.
I indicated that I would uphold that part of the complaint that related to the first application  
made by DL. But I found, on a balance of probabilities,  that Mr H had been provided with the 
required information and had given consent  for its use prior to the second application. I also 
said that I was satisfied that BMW  had paid the award into an account in Mr Hs name. And it 
didnt need to make any further payment.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  decision. BMW  accepted it and didnt wish to add 
anything. Mr H disagreed  and said that knowledge and consent of a data processing 
application should never be assumed. He also insisted he was unable to access the bank 
account into which the award had been paid. 
I thank both parties for their replies  and where  required  Ill deal with the issues  raised in my 
findings which appear below. As no new information  has been provided, I see no reason to 
change the view I expressed in my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12825672I can see that Mr H feels  very strongly about the subject matter of this complaint. Its 
understandable hed be upset if information  was shared with third parties  without his 
permission.
I acknowledge that since Mr H first brought this complaint to this service  in May 2019 theres 
been various changes in circumstances.  This has resulted  in a delay in the matter  being 
referred to an ombudsman.
I should also acknowledge  that Mr H may find some  of the contents of this decision to be 
familiar. Thats due to me recently issuing a decision on a separate complaint  of his which 
bore some similarities  to this matter. The phraseology Ive used is in parts the same.  Thats 
because of the common factors. As a service we try to take a consistent approach whilst 
recognising that each  complaint is to be determined upon its own merits. I can assure him 
that Ive viewed both matters  entirely independently  of each other. And this complaint wasnt 
allocated to me until the earlier decision had been written.
At the outset I need to explain that its not for me to determine if a breach of GDPR has 
occurred. I dont apply  the law - directly  - but I do take it into account.
In summary,  Mr H complains that his personal  information was passed to third parties 
without his consent during the process of his applying for finance  for a motor  vehicle.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
As its been  agreed by BMW to have the details of the application  processed  by EH removed 
from Mr Hs credit record, I shant comment further.
The two applications  processed by DL were, I believe, sent on 30 December 2018 and 13 
February 2019. Although BMW has sent a copy of the fair processing notice I cant  see that 
theres sufficient information to show it was discussed with Mr H prior to the 30 December 
2018 application. BMW  accepted my provisional  decision, so I neednt go into any further 
detail. Im upholding the complaint in respect  of that application.
The position  with the February  application  is different.
Ive seen a finance agreement which bears Mr Hs signature, and which is dated 2 January 
2019. This relates to the vehicle which proved  to be unsatisfactory. And presumably followed 
the search conducted on 30 December 2018.  It was financed by BMW  and DL acted as 
credit broker. On pages 2,3 and 4 of this agreement under the heading Use of information" 
is a detailed explanation of how information is used and for what  purpose.
Ref: DRN12825673In the light of Hs response to my provisional  decision I think I couldve expressed myself  
more clearly in explaining my findings relating to the February application. I accept that its 
necessary for a business  to follow its GDPR process  in relation to each individual 
application. And not assume a consumers  knowledge and consent.
In reaching my decision I have to look at all the circumstances.  And in the context of this 
complaint that means looking at the process  which DL adopted. Ive already  found  that prior 
to the first application  theres insufficient  information to show that the fair processing  notice 
was discussed  with Mr H. But as Ive indicated it did it later identify the purposes for which 
his data would be processed in the first agreement.
This indicates that although here may have been an initial failure in respect of the first 
application, Mr Hs attention had been quickly drawn  to the relevant items within  a couple of 
days. 
The relevance of this to the second application  is that it demonstrates that BMW  has a 
process in place for use by its agents  and credit brokers. This suggest its aware of its 
obligations relating to data processing.  
Credit brokers  such  as DL regularly process  finance applications. And are familiar with the 
requirements of the individual prospective lenders to whom  applications are referred. GDPR 
requirements are an essential  part of such processes. Given  the evidence  that the 
agreement Mr H signed in January  2019 contained the required information about the use to 
which his information  would be put I find there was a proper process in place. Of course, any 
process is subject to human error and that may account for the earlier apparent  omission.
BMW has advised that DL has specifically provided written confirmation  that Mr H was made 
aware of how his personal information  would be used in the second application. And that 
electronic confirmation  of this was provided  as part of the application process.  I see no 
reason to doubt this. Ive already found that any initial error in the processing of the first 
application was quickly followed by evidence that the agreement itself contained the relevant 
information.
I find on a balance of probabilities, that he was given the required information in respect  of 
the February application. And that he consented to his personal information being used for 
that later application.
For completeness, I should add that I dont find that Mr H experienced any specific  detriment 
or financial loss as a result of the two instances  on which  this complaint has been  upheld. Its 
apparent that Mr H has a broad knowledge  of the GDPR requirements to which  businesses  
are subject. Im satisfied that whilst  on those  occasions he might not have been separately 
advised of the use to which his personal  information  would  be used he was nonetheless 
aware of this.
Ref: DRN12825674Mr H also complained about comments which were attached to the enquires made to the 
relevant agencies when his applications  were being considered. Specifically, he complains 
that these comments  related to details of his address, employment  history and bank 
statements. Ive insufficient  information to say if these  comments  were false or misleading. 
Accordingly, I make no finding  on this aspect. But its fair for any business involved in 
processing and / or providing information in relation  to a potential finance  agreement to 
mention any reasonable doubts it might  have about  the accuracy of information given by a 
prospective borrower.
When BMW didnt agree with all the findings  of our investigators the matter  was as usual put 
in a queue  to await an ombudsmans decision. During the delay to which  Ive referred Mr H 
indicated hed accept  the recommended award  of £300 compensation. It may be this was 
partly prompted by the fact that credit  searches usually drop off a credit record after 12 
months.
After Mr Hs acceptance had been notified to BMW it paid the money  into a bank account  for 
which it held his details.  Unfortunately,  due to a dispute between  Mr H and the bank which  
provides that account, Mr H hasnt been able to withdraw the money.  As a result,  he 
withdrew his acceptance of the investigators recommended  award of £300.
I mention this as my provisional decision acknowledged that as BMW had paid the original 
recommended award, I didnt require it to make the payment a second time.
Mr H doesnt consider that payment  to what he describes as an old, defunct  and 
inaccessible account satisfies the outcome of this complaint.
Firstly, I should mention that  notwithstanding  its already  paid the money  BMW wouldnt 
be legally  obliged to pay any award I make unless  Mr H accepts my final decision.
Ive been provided  with information to show that the account into which  BMW paid the 
money remains open. It seems the reason that Mr H is unable to access this account is that 
the relevant bank does not know his current address. And that there is an ongoing dispute  
between Mr H and that bank about issues which do not concern this complaint.
I dont agree with his assertion that he hasnt received his compensation. It appears  that it 
remains within his own control  to gain access to that account by resuming contact with the 
relevant account  provider.  I shant require BMW to take any further action in respect of this 
payment.
In summary,  I intend to uphold this complaint but only to the extent that Ive indicated  above. 
Had it not already  made a payment of £300, I wouldve required BMW to pay £100 for each 
of the two searches (£200) for which I find insufficient information to show that Mr H was 
made aware  of the privacy policy. And the use which would be made of his personal 
information. 
As its already made the payment, Ill formally make it part of my decision. But BMW  wont  be 
required to make the payment again. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but only in 
part.
Ref: DRN12825675I now require BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited to take the following action in full and 
final settlement of this complaint:
1.Pay £200 to Mr H for distress and inconvenience*.  
*As a sum of £300 has already been  paid into a bank account in Mr Hs name, BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited doesnt need  to take any further action on this;
2.Arrange to have  records of searches  removed  (if not already deleted) from Mr Hs 
credit record  and fraud prevention agency  record in relation to the application 
processed on 30 December 2018;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1282567