K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc declined two applications to upgrade her basic  
current account to a 123 current account. Mrs S says Santander didnt give her a clear  
enough explanation of why her applications were  declined.  
background
Mrs S has a basic  current account with Santander and applied to upgrade  it on two 
occasions in 2018. Both applications  were  declined but Santander didnt say why. 
Mrs S complained and Santander explained that the applications didnt meet its criteria so 
werent successful. But it didnt give any specific reasons why. Mrs S complaint was then 
reviewed by an investigator at this service. 
The investigator discussed the decisions to decline Mrs S applications with Santander and it 
agreed they could  provide a more  detailed explanation. The investigator explained that 
Mrs S first application was declined  because Mrs S had no credit score. The second  
application was declined because Mrs S had only been added  to the electoral roll in 
January 2018  despite advising shed been living at her property for several years.  
The investigator didnt  agree Santander  had made a mistake  so didnt ask it to take any 
further action  to resolve Mrs S complaint. Mrs S remains unhappy and has asked for her 
case to be appealed so its been passed  to me to make a decision. 
Mr S brings the complaint  on behalf of Mrs S. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, businesses wont release commercially sensitive information about why 
an application has been declined. But in this case,  the investigator made several requests 
and Santander  went on to agree for her to forward specific details of why Mrs S applications 
were declined. 
Mr S has been sent redacted emails  setting out Santanders  decisions to decline Mrs S 
applications. Ive carefully reviewed  everything Mr and Mrs S have said as well as all the 
information provided by Santander. From what Ive seen, Santanders provided a clear 
explanation as to why both applications didnt proceed. 
Santanders explained that because  it wasnt able to trace Mrs S when she first applied her 
application didnt  succeed. Santanders  said that if it cant  trace an applicant the application 
will be declined  and Im satisfied thats a decision its entitled  to make. 
Santanders gone on to explain that Mrs S second application was declined because  the 
date she was added to the electoral roll was January 2018 but she said shed lived at the 
property for longer than that. Given there does appear to be a discrepancy,  Ive not found 
Santander acted  unfairly or unreasonably  by taking the decision not to proceed. 
Ref: DRN10478442Ive looked at everything Santanders supplied and Ive not found  any evidence  that Mrs S 
application was declined because she doesnt have  a British passport. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Ive not found any evidence of a mistake by 
Santander. From what Ive seen, its assessed  Mrs S applications in line with its standard 
criteria. I wouldnt normally expect a business  to give detailed  reasons explaining why an 
applications been declined. In this case, Santanders gone further than Id have expected 
and released specific  information about why Mrs S applications werent successful. Im 
pleased Santanders  decided to release that information and I hope its provided Mrs S with 
a clearer understanding of what happened. But as Ive not found anything to show  
Santanders made a mistake or treated Mrs S unfairly Im not telling it to do anything  further  
to resolve her complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1047844