K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background 
Mr L took out 5 loans  with Lending Stream between February and November 2015.  His 
representatives say that these loans  trapped him in a debt spiral and were irresponsibly  
given to him. Mr L has repaid the first loan but was unable to fully repay  the remaining four 
loans and a balance is outstanding.
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and thought that Lending Stream  was wrong to 
give Mr L loans 3 to 5. He thought that Lending Stream  shouldve done more  checking of Mr 
Ls circumstances  given  his borrowing pattern. He thought that if the business had done  
those checks it wouldve discovered  that Mr L was gambling heavily and as a responsible  
lender it wouldnt  have agreed to provide loans 3 to 5.
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicator  and offered to refund all the interest  and 
charges that Mr L paid on loans 3 to 5 and remove all negative information from Mr Ls credit  
file. It said that it would set off this refund against the outstanding balance.
Mr Ls representatives responded on his behalf and said that Mr L didnt agree and would 
like the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman. The representatives didnt explain what  Mr L 
disagreed with in the adjudicators view or why he didnt want to accept the offer made by 
the business. So I have reviewed the complaint in full.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN19242832refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr L could sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
I agree  with the conclusions of the adjudicator  that it wasnt wrong  for Lending Stream  to 
give loans 1 and 2 to Mr L. For the first loan Mr L said he was earning £1800  and his 
outgoings were  £467.  The highest instalment  on this loan was £106  which  appeared easily 
affordable on the figures given by Mr L. At this stage  in the lending  relationship  there wasnt 
any reason to doubt what Mr L was saying about his finances so I dont think  it was wrong 
for Lending Stream to agree this loan.
Before Mr L had fully repaid  loan 1 he asked for loan 2. There was nothing  in Mr Ls 
repayment history that suggested any difficulty and Mr L said his income was £2300 and his 
outgoings were  £850.  The highest instalment  on this loan was £268.  This amount was 
modest compared to Mr Ls declared  disposable  income and loan one was almost repaid.  
On balance I think that Lending Stream didnt  need  to do any more checking  before giving 
Mr L this loan.
By the point of loan 3 I think that the position  had changed. Mr L asked to borrow before loan 
2 was repaid and I think by this stage Lending  Stream should have done  further  checking  to 
make sure that Mr L wasnt reliant  on short term credit or in difficulty  managing his money. 
His borrowing pattern  was at odds with his declared  disposable  income.  Had Lending 
Stream done  further checks to verify what Mr L was saying it wouldve discovered  Mr Ls 
gambling and as a responsible lender it wouldnt have  given Mr L loan 3 or any of the later 
loans as his position didnt improve.  
Mr L has had the benefit of the money so I think it is only fair that he pays it back  but all 
interest and charges should be refunded together with interest. As there  is a balance 
outstanding the refund can be used to reduce  the outstanding capital balance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Gain  Credit LLC,  to:
Ref: DRN19242833Refund all interest  and charges that Mr L paid on loans 3 to 5 inclusive;
Write  off any interest and charges not yet paid;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Apply the refund to offset any capital balance outstanding and pay the balance to 
Mr L;
Remove any negative  information about the refunded  loans from Mr Ls credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
PDL Finance  Limited must  give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1924283