K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs A says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 1991 Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy at the same time as taking out a mortgage. BoS 
says both happened during a branch meeting.
The policy provided  protection for Mr and Mrs As mortgage payments in the event they 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment  the policy benefit was 
equally split. The policy would pay out for up to 12 months per claim and it cost £3 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs A were employed  and they both said they were  entitled to 
sick pay of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. They  said they couldve 
relied on family to help them  make their mortgage repayments and they said they were  in 
good health at the time.
BoS records show the mortgage account ended  in 1994.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said there wasnt  
enough evidence  to fairly say Mr and Mrs A didnt chose and agree to take out the cover.  
And there was nothing  to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for them
Because Mr and Mrs A disagree, the complaint  comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. My reasons are set 
out below.
did Mr and Mrs A have a choice about PPI?  
did they agree to take it out?
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt agree to take out PPI  theyve said they have no memory  of 
taking it out.
BoS doesnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale.  And this isnt surprising given 
how long-ago  things happened   its also been  25 years since the mortgage account closed.
Because of the passage of time and the limited evidence now available,  I dont think  I can 
fairly say that BoS more likely than not misrepresented the policy  as not being optional  or 
that Mr and Mrs A didnt agree to take out PPI. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs A did choose  
to take it out and theyve simply forgotten as theyve suggested.
Ref: DRN11038362the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. This means  BoS had to check  that the 
PPI was right for Mr and Mrs A  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example, neither of them was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover such as those related to existing medical conditions  and unusual  
employment circumstances, and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs A had some sick pay they couldve used. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and for longer if necessary  up to 12 months per claim. Also Mr and Mrs A 
didnt have any savings  to fall back on. Theyve said they couldve asked family for help. But 
I dont consider this to be a guaranteed source  of help  it might  not be so readily available 
in the event something goes wrong. And I wouldnt have expected BoS to have taken this 
into account in giving  any advice to Mr and Mrs A.
Overall I think  its likely Mr and Mrs A wouldve quickly come under some  financial strain had 
the insured risks have become a reality. So I think they did have a need for cover  and I think  
it would  have helped  them out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. I 
dont think it was wrong for BoS to have  recommended it.
the information   
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr and 
Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found  above, I think they 
policy was suitable  for them, and I think it would  have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. Also at £3 a month its cost was, in my view, relatively insignificant. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs A off taking out the cover.  
conclusion
In summary   while BoS might not have  done  everything it should fairly and reasonably have  
done when it sold Mr and Mrs A PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time I think  PPI 
was suitable for them  and I think  they would still have gone  ahead and taken out PPI had 
BoS done anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mr and Mrs A have lost out as a result  of having PPI, so 
BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN11038363
Ref: DRN1103836