K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Everyday Lending  Limited shouldnt have accepted him as a guarantor on a 
loan provided  to his friend (the borrower). Mr B says Everyday  Lending acted irresponsibly 
by accepting him as a guarantor. 
He says he wasnt fully aware of the responsibility of being a guarantor. He also says had 
Everyday Lending  completed reasonable and proportionate checks, it wouldve seen the 
repayments were unaffordable to him.
background
The borrower was approved for £7,000 guarantor loan by Everyday Lending  in        
November 2017.  The total amount repayable was approximately £16,000 to be repaid in 
monthly payments  of £273.59 for a total of 60 months. Mr B was approved as the guarantor 
for the loan. 
Mr B says he is not in position to meet any of the monthly payments. He says he is very 
unwell; has a low level of income (all in the form of benefits payments) and as such the loan 
is unaffordable. He says proper checks were not completed before the loan was approved,  
and as such he feels Everyday Lending  acted irresponsibly  before approving him as a 
guarantor. Mr B also says he was not made fully aware of his commitments  as a guarantor 
before he agreed  to be one.
Everyday Lending  says it has acted fairly and responsibly in approving this loan and 
approving Mr B as a guarantor. It says it completed  credit searches on both the borrower 
and Mr B, as well as income  and expenditure checks  on Mr B and the borrower  to see if the 
loan was affordable.  Everyday  Lending  says it explained the role of guarantor  clearly to Mr B 
before he entered into the agreement  and says this is evidenced by Mr Bs signed  
agreement. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld.  They  felt 
Everyday Lending  had not completed  reasonable and proportionate  checks on the borrower 
when approving the loan.  As such they argued the loan shouldnt  have been approved in the 
first instance  and as such Mr Bs responsibilities  as guarantor should be removed too. 
Everyday Lending  disagreed with this outcome, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision.
Since the application of the loan,  the borrower  has filed for bankruptcy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so; Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. In relation to 
the rules,  regulations, guidance and good  industry  practice, which applied at the time, there 
are four overarching questions which form our approach. These are:
Ref: DRN140642021.Did Everyday Lending obtain Mr Bs properly informed consent before binding him to 
the guarantee and indemnity agreement?  
2.Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr B to 
satisfy itself that he was in a position  repay the loan in the event the borrower did 
not? 
If so, did it make  a fair decision? 
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr B would have been able to do so?
3.Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable  way? 
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision? 
If not, would  those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able 
to do so? 
 
4.Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
For reasons that will become apparent  further on I have not addressed all the questions Ive 
set out. Instead,  Ive started by considering whether Everyday Lending completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr B to satisfy  itself that he was in apposition to 
make the payments to this loan in the event he had to.
Everyday Lending  needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be able to 
understand if Mr B would be able to make the loan payments  in the event  he had to. 
Essentially this meant that it needed  to conduct  similar affordability checks on Mr B to those 
reasonably expected for the borrower. The relevant rules dont set out which  specific checks 
it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could 
include things such as a customers  income  (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
Everyday Lending  was required to ensure that Mr B could sustainably meet the repayments 
without adversely affecting his financial position, should he be required to do so, given that 
he was equally liable  with the borrower  for this debt.
Everyday Lending  says it completed  a credit search,  as well as an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mr B. It says based on these checks, Mr B had enough disposable  income to 
meet the payments  should he become liable to make them.  It therefore  says the loan 
repayments wouldve  been affordable.
Ive considered what Everyday Lending has said about the affordability of the loan based  on 
the checks it completed, but ultimately, I disagree  these checks were proportionate in this 
instance. 
In this instance, considering the size and length of the loan, Im satisfied thorough  checks  
shouldve been  completed to get a better understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances. 
Everyday Lending  couldve  achieved this by checking Mr Bs credit file and/or bank 
statements.
Looking at Mr Bs bank statements leading up to the borrowers  loan, it is clear  to see he is 
managing his finances within a tight budget (he has also provided a financial  statement 
Ref: DRN14064203which shows he has approximately £110 disposable  income  per month).  There is limited 
income coming in, in the form of benefits  payments, and at times Mr B has become 
overdrawn. I think had Everyday Lending  conducted further checks it wouldve seen that any 
additional payments Mr B mayve had to make  wouldve likely sent him into his overdraft on 
a more frequent basis. As Everyday Lending  is aware, affordability includes  the ability to 
meet payments without incurring further debt or undue  difficulty,  and I think it ought 
reasonably have been aware this payments wouldnt have been sustainable for Mr B. So, Im 
satisfied on that basis the loan was unaffordable to him.
As Ive already  found that Mr B shouldnt have  been accepted as a guarantor  on for this loan 
as I think proportionate checks would more likely than not have  shown that hed be unable to 
sustainably make the payments in the event he had to, I dont think  that any findings that I 
may make in relation to the remaining questions,  will materially affect Mr Bs position. As 
such while I note the findings that our adjudicator made, I make  no finding on whether 
Everyday Lending  obtained Mr Bs properly  informed consent to the agreement  or on 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards  the borrower when deciding to provide  this 
loan. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To settle  Mr Bs complaint, I require  Everyday Lending Limited to do the following:
To release Mr B from any obligations  he has under  the Guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
To refund any repayments Mr B has made towards the loan with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove  any information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of the loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday  Lending Limited to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN1406420