K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined a claim 
they made on their home insurance for damage  caused by a leak in their bathroom. 
background 
Mr and Mrs B have  mainly been in contact with a claims administrator who was acting on 
Ageas behalf.  As it was ultimately  Ageas that said it wouldnt meet the claim, this decision 
will refer to Ageas throughout for ease of reading.
In May 2018  Mrs B discovered some  damage  to the room of a wall in her and Mr Bs home. 
Further investigation seemed to show that the damage had been caused by a water leak in 
the adjacent bathroom. They contacted Ageas about this. They said they were getting  a 
couple of quotes to put things right. And that the builder thought the problem was caused by 
failed sealant  and grout, which had let water leak from a shower  tray.
Ageas said Mr and Mrs Bs policy didnt cover  them for damage  caused in this way and said 
it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs B had to have the work  done,  so they asked  the builder to go ahead. When  he 
removed the shower,  he found more damage  than hed expect if the leak was from failed 
grout. He then discovered a pipe under the shower tray had been leaking  and he thought 
this was the main  cause  of damage  rather than the grout. 
Mr and Mrs B sent the report  to Ageas, but it still wouldnt  meet  the claim, so Mr and Mrs B 
complained about this.
Ageas didnt change its mind, so Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  She thought the report  
from the builder was persuasive and that Ageas should meet the claim.  Ageas didnt agree, 
saying it couldnt  see any evidence of a leaking pipe in the photos  in the report  but it could 
see the poor state of the grout in earlier photos  sent by Mr and Mrs B.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint and Ill explain  why.
I accept that the initial photos sent by Mr and Mrs B  before any extensive  investigation had 
taken place  might lead someone to believe the grout was the main cause of the problem 
here. And I can see Mr and Mrs Bs policy  doesnt  cover them  for damage from faulty grout.
Indeed, Mr and Mrs Bs own builder thought that was the main cause until he removed the 
shower tray and found the leaking pipe.  He provided  Mr and Mrs B with a comprehensive 
report which they shared  with Ageas.  
Ageas pointed out that this report was only obtained  after it had said it wouldnt meet Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim. And it asked why Mr and Mrs B hadnt done more invasive investigation work 
Ref: DRN17038322before making  the claim. I think its understandable why that happened  and I also think  its 
fairly common for underlying causes of damage to only become apparent once  repairs start. 
Mr B says he invited Ageas to send its own contractor to look at the damage before  the 
repairs were done,  but it didnt  do that. So the only in depth report on the damage is from the 
builder. I havent  seen  anything that suggests  I shouldnt accept his conclusions.
Ive looked at the report and Im satisfied there was a leaking pipe. And I can see, from 
Ageas own files, that it was considering meeting  the claim as a result  of this report  even 
though it later changed its mind. 
Our investigator has already explained our approach to hidden  damage that builds up over 
time which goes unnoticed  by a policy holder. We think it unfair in those circumstances to 
apply an exclusion about gradually operating  causes of damage. Ageas says Mr and Mrs B 
must have  known the grout in their shower was damaged. I dont think  we know if that was 
simply down to wear and tear, or if it was because the wall behind the tiles was wet from the 
leaking pipe,  which contributed to the failure of the grout. 
Taking everything into account  I think Ageas  has unfairly  refused  to meet  this claim.
To put things right Id normally ask Ageas to meet the claim. The most common ways of 
doing this would be for Ageas to arrange the repairs or, if Mr and Mrs B wanted to use their 
own contractor, Ageas would be able to cash settle  the claim at the equivalent of what it 
would have paid to have the repairs done.
That isnt appropriate  here as Mr and Mrs B have already had the repairs  done. I think thats 
reasonable as they would naturally want the bathroom to be functioning within a short period 
of time. So to put things right, Ageas should refund Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid for 
the repairs  plus any VAT if appropriate.  Mr and Mrs B will need to send Ageas evidence  of 
payment. If Ageas could prove what proportion of the damage was down to failed  grout and 
what was the leaking  pipe, it could reduce the amount  it pays. I dont think  this can now 
feasibly be done,  especially  as the repairs were  done some time ago. So Ageas should pay 
the full amount.
For clarity,  Ageas is only responsible for the cost of repairs  not any upgrade Mr and Mrs B 
decided to have.
Mr and Mrs B have  also had to bear the cost of the repairs unfairly  so theyve been 
deprived of the use of their own money for some time.  To compensate  Mr and Mrs B for this 
Ageas should  add interest at the statutory rate of 8% per annum to the payment, from the 
date Mr and Mrs B paid for the repairs to the date of refund. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ageas Insurance Limited to
Meet Mr and Mrs Bs claim, subject to any other relevant terms and conditions  in their 
policy.
It should do this by refunding Mr and Mrs B the cost of the repairs, plus VAT if 
applicable, once  Mr and Mrs B provide evidence theyve paid this amount.
Ref: DRN17038323Ageas  must also pay Mr and Mrs B interest* at 8% simple  per annum on the amount 
they paid from the date of payment to the date of refund.
*Ageas may need to deduct  tax from this amount. If it does, it must provide Mr and Mrs B 
with a tax certificate  showing the amount deducted  for their records.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1703832