K821x#15complaint
Ws complaint is about the sale of a CyberEdge Network Security and Privacy insurance  
policy.
Mrs G, on behalf of W, says the policy was mis-sold by NFU Mutual  Insurance Society 
Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in September 2019, part of which  is copied  
below:
In April 2018 NFU sold W CyberEdge Network Security and Privacy insurance. Ws 
business was almost entirely  internet  based so they wanted cover  to protect them  and their 
customers against cyber-crime. 
The sale was conducted at Ws premises on an advised basis. During  the sale, it was 
agreed that the policy limit would be increased  from £100,000 to £250,000. Optional  extras  
such as extortion cover, outsource service provider  and network interruption insurance were  
also added  to the policy.
In December 2018 W discovered it had been  subject to a data breach which eventually 
resulted in over 2000 of its customers card details being compromised.  A second data 
breach was then discovered at a later date. When W made  a claim on its CyberEdge  policy  
about this, it found  it wasnt  covered for everything it thought  the insurance would help with.
Mrs G complained to NFU about  this because she felt she wasnt  given the right information  
about the policy and that if she had been, W wouldnt  have taken it out. Instead she says she 
wouldve sought cover  for W elsewhere  to ensure that W was protected  in the event of a 
cyber-attack. 
NFU considered the complaint and accepted  that cover in respect of the Payment Card 
Industry (PCI) investigations  and fines wasnt highlighted to W when taking out the policy.  
Had it been, NFU accepts that W wouldve taken it out. Because of this NFU has agreed to 
pay for the costs of the investigations  relating  both data breaches and indemnify W for any 
fines they may incur  in respect of them.  They  also advised that W would need  to obtain 
cover for this going  forward  and that they wouldnt pay for any more  data breaches unless 
this was done. 
NFU also considered Ws claim for network  interruption which  comprised of the loss of 
profits Mrs G said W suffered as a result of the data breaches. NFU said they werent 
prepared to consider  this claim because the cover  sold to W would only apply  if there was a 
material interruption to the business  network. Because there wasnt and W continued to 
trade, NFU said they werent able to consider  this.
NFU also rejected Ws request for goodwill coupons to be paid to the customers that had 
been affected by the data breach because this wasnt something that Ws business  fulfilled 
the relevant criteria for. 
Ref: DRN18571342Mrs G was concerned that NFU had removed information relating to cyber policies and 
related articles on their website after W had made  a complaint  to NFU. NFU said the 
removal of these articles were coincidental and unrelated to this complaint.  
Mrs G wasnt  happy with this so made a complaint to this service  as follows:
NFU accept the policy was mis-sold so W should be paid for loss of business and 
damage to their reputation;
W should be provided with a true explanation about the removal  of information related to 
cyber policies  from NFUs website after W made  their claim;
NFU should apologise  for the poor service they provided W with and pay them 
compensation of around £6,000.
W wants another £30,000  in compensation for NFUs failure  to provide them  with PCI 
cover.
Our investigator considered Ws complaint and concluded it should  be upheld.  She thought 
that NFU didnt make it clear to W that cover  under this section  of the policy  would apply only 
if their computer systems were  suspended.   She thought this was a significant  term and 
shouldve been  drawn to Ws attention.
The investigator also thought that W wanted  cover for the type of situation they were 
claiming for and that if theyd have known  they didnt have cover,  they wouldve sought it 
elsewhere. Because of this, she said that NFU should meet Ws claim for loss of business  
and damage to their reputation. She also thought they should be paid interest  at 8%. In 
addition she thought that NFU should  pay W £500 for the inconvenience caused to them  as 
a result of W being put to more trouble than necessary  to having its claim considered.
Finally, the investigator  rejected Ws claim for the mis-sale of PCI cover.  She thought  the 
offer NFU had made to cover the costs  of investigations and fines  was reasonable. She also 
said that we couldnt become involved in the reasons surrounding NFU taking information off 
their website as this was a business decision for them. 
NFU dont agree so the matter has been passed  to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I currently think Ws 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. 
When reviewing this complaint I asked  the parties a number of questions.  Those included  
whether W could show they had a specific need for the situation they were wanting to claim 
for i.e. loss of profits as a result of a data breach that didnt cause W to stop trading and 
damage to reputation in the same  circumstances. 
I was also looking for evidence from both parties that policies were available  that covered 
these specific circumstances when  W took out the insurance.
Having considered what both parties  have said, Im not convinced that W had a specific 
need for the insurance that would apply in the event that they were  the subject of cybercrime 
but their business  continued to trade. So whilst  Mrs G has given some very detailed  
testimony around the nature  of Ws business and wanting to protect  it from cybercrime  in the 
Ref: DRN18571343round, I cant  say W had a specific need  for something this policy didnt cover.  So I cant  say 
it was unsuitable  for Ws needs.
Ive also looked  at what both parties  have said about  alternative  policies.  I havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest any would pay a claim for loss of profits when the business  is still 
trading. And the policy that Mrs G has provided does not appear to engage in those 
circumstances. So even  if I were  to find that NFU didnt give Mrs G or W enough information 
about that limitation, I dont think she wouldve done something differently by buying a 
different policy  because its unlikely others wouldve covered W for this situation at the time 
the policy was sold.
I know Mrs G says other policies wouldve engaged  for a loss of reputation  claim for loss of 
profits where their business didnt suffer a material interruption  i.e. continued to trade. Its 
possible that they wouldve done this but I think the cover  wouldve  been far more limited  
and so unlikely  that W would achieve  anything close to what Mrs G is claiming for. Any 
claims for this wouldve no doubt  been  subject to a forensic review to ascertain the impact  of 
the data breach on the business. That said, Mrs G has been  quite clear that at the time the 
policy was sold and following this, she wouldnt  have  gone elsewhere  to seek  an alternative 
policy because W has historically bought insurance  from NFU and has remained a loyal 
customer until this incident.  And NFU have said that they didnt and dont currently  offer 
policies that would pay a claim for loss of profits as a result of loss of reputation without 
physical business  interruption. So I dont think W wouldve been in a better or different 
position.
I understand Ws claim for PR costs in relation to their claim for loss of reputation have been 
agreed, although this appears to be less than Mrs G had hoped  would be funded. Mrs G has 
also provided an update on the remainder of her claim  which  is continuing. Im not 
considering Ws complaint  in respect  of their claim on the policy.  Im only considering 
whether NFU mis-sold the policy so I wont be commenting on this issue.
Notwithstanding the above, Im mindful  that given NFUs position and what Mrs G has said,  
there were likely to be flaws in the sales process that meant  the extent of the cover wasnt 
properly explained.  Although I dont  think this means the policy was mis-sold,  I do think a 
clear explanation from the outset wouldve helped Mrs G understand the extent of the cover 
W was getting and manage Ws response to their claim. Because  of this I think  its right that 
NFU pays  W £500 for the inconvenience  arising out of time spent away  from its normal  
business pursing  this issue  as a consequence.
developments
I asked the parties  to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. Both Mrs G and NFU have responded. They  made a 
number of submissions  which Ive summarised  below.  Mrs G has said:
W increased  the limit on their insurance  from £100,000 to £250,000. Mrs G intended 
this increase to cover  loss of business due to damage to Ws reputation.  If the policy  
wasnt going to cover this, shed  never  have paid the extra premium which  was over 
double the price of the earlier cost.
The email correspondence between Mrs G and the NFU agent proves that she was 
seeking cover for loss of income including losses incurred as a result of damage to 
reputation.
Ref: DRN18571344Mrs G was concerned about Ws reputation when taking out cover.  Shes given 
several examples  of how Ws reputation was damaged.
The question of alternative policies being  available isnt relevant because Mrs G was 
clearly advised that if she needed  reputation and business loss protections, she 
should buy network interruption cover. 
Mrs Gs friend was subject to a similar  data breach and his policy did pay out for loss 
of income as a result  of damage  to reputation. His policy terms prove there was other 
insurance available to cover W in these  circumstances.
The terms of Ws policy generally  are ambiguous which was confirmed by NFUs loss 
adjuster and NFUs representative who sold the insurance.
NFUs  removal  of information about their cybercrime policies from their websites 
supports there were problems in their sales processes.
NFUs  handling  of their claim was poor.  Mrs G was passed  through  various people 
when making Ws claim, which meant she had to repeat  herself again and again.  And 
it took a long time for NFU to confirm they had failed to offer the PCI cover  part of the 
policy. 
In addition Mrs G was involved in hundreds  of emails and phone  calls to deal with 
this situation as well as attend several  meetings with NFU. It shouldnt have taken W 
more than 5 days  to deal with this claim but it took about 15 days to deal with. 
Because of this NFU should  compensate W by paying £6,000 and provide an 
apology.
PCI cover is about dealing with compliance and containment and includes rebuilding 
web servers without  betterment.
NFU have said:
The award of compensation Ive directed seems to be based  on likely flaws  in the sales  
process that meant the extent  of cover was not properly explained to Mrs G. Theyd like 
to know what flaws  are being  referred to.
The policy would pay out if an insured  event  occurs. They are unsure how this would be 
explained as its a basic principle of insurance.
They have been clear about  what is and isnt covered throughout Ws claim. The fact that 
Mrs G has sought  to challenge this on multiple occasions was her choice. So NFU 
shouldnt have  to compensate W for this.
Their agent  and the underwriters representative have both spent considerable time with 
Mrs G in person explaining what is and isnt covered. So NFU doesnt feel W should  be 
awarded monetary  compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Ws complaint should be upheld in accordance with my provisional decision.
I take on board Mrs Gs comments about  what she wanted the policy  to cover.  But Im not 
persuaded that she had a specific need  for the policy to protect W in the event of a data 
breach where  W continued to trade. Thats  because  shes already said she wanted cover to 
protect W generally from cybercrime. And I think the policy  did do this but it also required 
there to be a material interruption to the extent that W stopped trading. In this case W 
continued to trade so the cover didnt  engage. I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight, 
Mrs G might now feel W shouldve been  protected  in this particular scenario, but that doesnt 
mean W had a specific need  for the cover  when it took out the policy. So I remain of the view 
that it was suitable to Ws needs and circumstances at the time it was sold. 
Ref: DRN18571345But even if I thought that NFU didnt give Mrs G or W enough information on the limitations  
of the policy, I havent seen  anything  else that makes me think  W wouldve done something  
differently and taken  cover out elsewhere. I say so because Mrs G was clear  that W was and 
wouldve remained a loyal customer of NFU until this incident. And NFU dont offer policies 
that wouldve  covered  W in circumstances where  their network wasnt  interrupted. Because  
of this I dont intend to comment  further  on the policy  that Mrs G says her friend was able to 
successfully claim  on, save to say that it makes no difference to my findings. 
Mrs G has said that NFUs policy terms are ambiguous. I dont agree. I appreciate  that she 
might have been told this by others  and that the representative selling  her the policy  might 
not have been clear  about what was covered. But I think  that on the issue of network 
interruption the terms are clear enough.  Because of this I dont think  they should be 
interpreted any differently by NFU.  
Ive looked carefully  at what both parties have  said on the issue  of compensation. Mrs G 
feels strongly that W has been  put to considerable inconvenience as a result  of how NFU 
handled its claim. Conversely NFU say they havent done anything  wrong  and have spent 
considerable time explaining what is and isnt covered by the policy  to Mrs G. 
I dont agree that NFU did nothing wrong. Its not in dispute that the PCI cover wasnt 
highlighted to Mrs G when  the cover was sold to her. As a result  NFU offered to pay the cost 
of any investigations  relating to the second data breach W suffered as well as pay any fines 
it might  incur  as a result of both data breaches. Mrs G has also given detailed testimony 
about her dealings with her local NFU agent.  She says that agent told her and NFU that she 
thought she was selling W cover which would fully engage in the event of a claim such  as 
the one W made. And that she didnt fully understand the terms used within  the policy as 
well as their meanings. Mrs G also says the agent  told her that comprehensive training 
hadnt been provided to her or any other  local NFU branches on the cover itself, including  
the different  components that could be offered with it.
Whilst I accept  that Mrs Gs contentions dont amount to testimony from the NFU agent, I am 
persuaded by her own testimony. When combined  with NFUs failure to offer the PCI cover, 
it is suggestive of flaws  within  the sales process  to the extent that the insurance wasnt  
properly explained.  Whilst this doesnt  mean W should be compensated for something NFU 
have already put right (by offering the benefit  of PCI cover), there is good reason for NFU to 
compensate W for failing  to explain the insurance  clearly when the policy  was sold. Had they 
done so, it would likely have managed Ws response to their claim being declined. That said,  
my award doesnt detract from the fact that the policy terms in relation to business  
interruption were clear enough. But I do think its likely the term wasnt  properly explained 
however this makes  no difference to my findings so I remain  of the view that NFU should pay 
W some compensation. 
I know Mrs G thinks  £6,000  is adequate compensation.  I dont agree. We wouldnt look to 
compensate W for the cost of Mrs Gs time. I appreciate she spent considerable hours  
disputing Ws claim with NFU but this was something she chose to do. And its a natural  
consequence of a claim arising  out of the incident that caused W to claim that some  
considerable time might be spent dealing with the claim  itself and the consequences  of the 
data breach. In the circumstances I consider £500  to be adequate compensation for the 
inconvenience arising out of time spent  away from Ws normal business pursing this matter 
with NFU. 
Ref: DRN18571346my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Ws complaint in part 
and direct NFU Mutual Insurance Society Limited  to pay W £500 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G on behalf of 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  22 November 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857134