K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that S, the appointed representative of Sesame Limited, didnt act 
fairly or reasonably when dealing with their mortgage application. They want  a refund  of the 
valuation fee paid to the lender  and an apology.
background
Mr and Mrs A wanted a mortgage and used S as their mortgage broker.  It recommended a 
mortgage to them and Mr and Mrs A paid a valuation fee to progress the application. After 
the valuation was carried out, the lender withdrew  as Mr and Mrs A couldnt provide the 
required information about tax credits as the information hadnt been issued to them by the 
government yet. Mr and Mrs A felt that S shouldve foreseen  this issue. 
While Mr and Mrs A in the end did get a mortgage  from another  lender (with a free 
valuation), they felt that the valuation  fee paid to the first lender was a waste of money as S 
shouldnt have recommended it in the first place.  Mr and Mrs A said that S didnt give good 
customer service,  communicated  poorly, and caused unnecessary delays to the application 
to the first lender; for example,  requiring  Mr As employer to submit  details of his 
employment many times and giving Mr and Mrs A email a generic address to contact S.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Sesame.  It said that the first mortgage recommendation was 
suitable at the time that it was recommended.  The advice had been based on the information  
given to S at the time by Mr and Mrs A, and the delays and administration issues were 
outside of its control. Sesame denied that communication was poor, and explained that the 
lender had recently changed its practice and now required  the income information to be sent 
direct to it. It also said that Mr As employer hadnt  complied with the lenders requirements, 
which was why it had to be done  again.  Sesame said that S wasnt responsible for the 
lenders rules. 
Sesame alleged that Mr and Mrs As declared  income to the first lender didnt match that 
declared for tax credits, which S couldnt  have  known at the time, but was noted  by the first 
lender and meant that the tax credits income  was likely to reduce.  Sesame  said that the 
failure to update the tax credits position  by Mr and Mrs A was partly  why the first lender 
wouldnt proceed. It also pointed out that the income  and employment changes  generally 
made the application more complex.
Mr and Mrs A complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that S was at fault. She said that 
it shouldve known that the first lender would need evidence of the tax credit award, that the 
changes in income would affect the tax credits paid in the future  and that the tax award didnt 
match the declared income. The adjudicator thought that S shouldve asked for an updated 
tax credit letter earlier and not made the application  to the first lender. She thought the £300 
valuation fee should be refunded with interest,  together with £100  for the trouble and upset  
caused by this failure. But the adjudicator didnt think S had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when communicating  with Mr and Mrs A as the evidence  available showed that S had 
responded promptly to emails received;  this part of the complaint wasnt  upheld.
Ref: DRN13004572Mr and Mrs A agreed with the adjudicators  view but Sesame disagreed. It said that it felt S 
had doing all it could  to help with the application  to the first lender, and the application wasnt  
ever going  to be straightforward. The adjudicator agreed with Sesame about these points, 
but pointed out that Mr and Mrs A used a broker in order to get expert  assistance  with a 
difficult application. She said that S knew about the salary changes  from the outset and 
shouldve been  aware that this could affect the tax credit  position. Sesame still disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is in two parts, and it seems that the communication and delay  issue isnt 
really in dispute any more as Mr and Mrs A has accepted the adjudicators view. But I also 
reviewed the evidence on this point, and think that theres no evidence  that S didnt 
communicate promptly or caused unnecessary  delays. Theres nothing  wrong  in using a 
generic email address, and I note one member of staff undertook much of the 
communication with Mr and Mrs A. And Im satisfied on the basis of the evidence  available  to 
me that S did pass  on the lenders requirements  for information when it was notified of the 
changes required and wasnt responsible for the issues with the employer references. Im 
not going to uphold this part of the complaint.
This leaves  the issue of the valuation fee paid to the first lender. Theres no dispute  that the 
valuation was carried out. Mr and Mrs As point is that the mortgage shouldnt have been  
recommended in the first place (and so the valuation fee wouldnt have been  paid)  as S 
shouldve been  aware of the first lenders  policies for evidence  about income and that the tax 
credit point was a potential problem.
S only recommended the first lender due to its approach to evidence  of income  the issue  
was caused by recent changes to Mr and Mrs As income and the lender would accept 
letters from an employer in place  of payslips. This shows that S knew  the lenders policies 
well, though its also clear  the lender did change their practice  during  the application, which 
wasnt S fault.
But the evidence  also shows  that S had been given  the tax credit letter that detailed  the 
award and the underlying calculations before it recommended the mortgage from the first 
lender. The tax credit letter gives information  that clearly conflicts with the declared  income.  
If S had properly read it, its more likely than not that it wouldve (or shouldve) noticed that 
the information conflicted with the mortgage  application. And given the lenders approach  to 
evidence of income, it wouldve been fair and reasonable for S to point  out the issue to 
Mr and Mrs A and warn of the risk of later problems due to the conflict  and the effect on 
future tax credit  income.  Its relevant to note that later S recommended  a lender with a 
different approach, and I think its more likely than not that this lender wouldve been  
recommended instead  at the outset if S had considered the tax credit issue  in more depth.
I think S didnt act fairly or reasonably in failing  to deal with the tax credit issue from the start 
and in recommending  Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage without warning of the risks 
involved. This failure caused Mr and Mrs A to waste £300 on a valuation fee for no purpose 
and I think its fair and reasonable for this sum should be refunded together  with interest. 
And this failure  caused trouble and upset. While money never  truly compensates for trouble 
and upset, I think in light of all the circumstances and Mr and Mrs As own view that £100 is 
fair and reasonable compensation.
Ref: DRN13004573my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Sesame Limited should refund the £300 
valuation fee together  with 8% simple  interest  a year from the date Mr and Mrs A paid the 
money to the date of refund. Sesame Limited  should also pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the failings outlined above. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1300457