K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) was misrepresented. 
Background
Mr A entered into a HPA with Moneyway in March  2017 to acquire a used car. He says that 
he was told at the time the car had a full service history. He also says he asked if the car had 
been in any accidents and was told it hadnt.  In 2019, he took the car to the manufacturer 
due to a recall. He says he was told the work on the steering  rack wouldnt be completed as 
the part wasnt provided by the manufacturer and that it couldnt guarantee its safety. Mr A 
says he was also told there wasnt a full service history.
Mr A spoke to the dealership about  this but says it refused to help him. In April 2019, he 
contacted Moneyway to raise his concerns about continuing to drive  the vehicle and the 
validity of his insurance as well as the missing service history.
Moneyway says that Mr A contacted it about his concerns regarding  the vehicle and later the 
lack of a service history. It explained that given the time he had been in possession  of the 
vehicle it would need further evidence  to show that the vehicle  didnt meet its description in 
order for an investigation to take place. It says Mr A said he didnt have this evidence.  It says 
that it hasnt been able to complete  a full investigation and that without further evidence to 
show the vehicle  didnt meet the description  it didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Moneyway also noted that it hadnt seen  any evidence  regarding the vehicles service history 
or recalls. It says the vehicle had passed  an MOT  shortly before acquisition  and then two 
MOTs since suggesting it was safe to drive.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He didnt think he had seen enough to say that 
the car wasnt as described at the point of supply and he wasnt satisfied that the service 
history had induced  Mr A into acquiring the car. He noted that the car had passed  MOTs  and 
that Mr A had been able to drive it over 40,000 miles. He didnt think this would  have been  
possible had the car not been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators  view and so this case  has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A entered into a HPA with Moneyway to acquire a vehicle. Under  the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  Moneyway can be held liable  if the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  or if there was a misrepresentation of fact 
that induced Mr A into entering  in the agreement.
Mr A says that the vehicle was misrepresented to him. He has also raised concerns about  
the safety of the vehicle. Therefore I have considered both the issue  of misrepresentation  
and also whether the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply.
Ref: DRN19353812Mr A raised his concerns after he took his vehicle to the manufacturer  due to a recall.  I do 
not have any details of the recall however I have seen a copy of the report  Mr A received 
from the manufacturer. This is dated  February  2019  and says that it was unable to carry out 
the work  on the steering  rack as there was a non vehicle specific steering rack fitted. I can 
understand why Mr A was concerned by this, and I note his comments about  continuing to 
drive the vehicle. However  I havent seen anything  to show  that the vehicle  wasnt  safe to 
drive due to this part being fitted.
Mr A says that when  he acquired the vehicle  he asked  if it had been  modified or in an 
accident and he was told this hadnt happened. He says he was also told the car had a full 
service history and this wasnt the case. Unfortunately  there  is no further  evidence  to support 
this. A copy of the advertisement  hasnt been  provided so I cannot  comment on whether 
these points were mentioned. Therefore  I find that I have had to make my decision based  on 
the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider  most  likely  to have happened given the 
information provided and the wider circumstances of the case. 
I cannot say what  was discussed at the point of supply. But I find it more likely  than not that 
had the service history  and information  about  past accidents been of key importance to Mr A 
he would  have sought further  evidence  at the time. It would have been reasonable for him to 
require the service history  and he could have carried out a check  in regard to the history of 
the vehicle. Therefore, while  I can understand why Mr A became concerned about these 
issues after the work undertaken in February 2019,  on balance, I do not find that I have 
enough to say these points were  raised  and that the vehicle  was mispresented to Mr A at the 
point of supply.
Considering the quality  of the car, I can only uphold this complaint if I find that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  I can understand why Mr A was 
concerned when he as told the steering rack wasnt a manufacturer  approved part, however 
I do not find that this is enough to say that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  The vehicle 
passed a MOT shortly before Mr A acquired  it and then two subsequent MOTs. Mr A was 
able to drive the vehicle  over 40,000 miles before the issue was raised and the vehicle has 
been driven around a further  20,000 miles in the past year according to its MOT  history.  I do 
not find that this suggests the car wasnt fit for purpose or not of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply.
Overall, while  I can understand  why Mr A was concerned  by information he received in 
February 2019, without  further evidence I do not find can say the vehicle was 
misrepresented to Mr A or not of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. Because of this I 
do not uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1935381