K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that when he made  a claim on his legal expenses  insurance policy,  LAMP  
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the disbursements incurred by his solicitors 
during the legal claim.
background
Mr N took out an After the Event  insurance  policy to provide cover for his legal fees for a 
claim he wanted to bring against a third party. The claim was concluded and his solicitors  
asked LAMP to pay the fees covered by the policy. LAMP paid some of the fees requested 
but didnt agree to pay for Mr Ns medical fees without a full breakdown of these. The 
solicitors had used  a medical agency  to obtain the expert medical  reports  needed as part of 
the claim.  
Mr N complained to our service. His solicitors  raised  a number of points on his behalf, 
including:
The breakdown  already provided  is more than reasonable.
The only question is whether the medical agency  fees were reasonably and properly 
incurred. Due to the nature of the claim a medical report would be needed.  The policy 
also confirms the need for a medical report. So the medical report  was reasonable. 
And as a report was provided, its reasonable to pay for it.
The invoices provided are in line with other medical agencies, and other underwriters 
have accepted similar invoices. LAMP  has been  invited to provide evidence to 
dispute that the costs were reasonable.
A medical agency was required to help with arranging  the medical report close  to the 
clients location. They also allow a deferred payment arrangement which  wouldnt be 
possible if the experts were instructed directly.
Although disputing the fees, LAMP had offered a payment  towards them. Our investigator 
put this offer to Mr Ns solicitors but it wasnt accepted. LAMP  later withdrew  the offer.
The investigator said there was no dispute that it was reasonable to get medical evidence in 
support of Mr Ns legal claim, and that would  incur some cost.  But she said LAMP was 
entitled to request evidence of the actual costs incurred and without a breakdown  of those 
costs, it wasnt  possible  to say if they were  reasonable.  So if Mr Ns solicitors could provide a 
more detailed breakdown shed expect  LAMP to consider it. But on the basis of the 
information provided she thought it was reasonable for LAMP not to pay the fees.
Mr Ns solicitors didnt agree and provided further comments. Ive summarised some of 
these as follows:
In December 2016 LAMP advised  that the fees would be paid - at no point  was the 
claim rejected. But despite agreeing to make  payment, it hasnt honoured that.
LAMP has only recently  requested original invoices and further  details. It isnt fair that 
Mr N should be made  to wait all this time only to be told payment  wont  be made  
because he cant now provide a more detailed  breakdown. And it isnt fair to request 
a breakdown justifying every  unit of work  done  when the breakdown already provided 
shows the work done per unit.
To request a breakdown would mean  providing a breakdown of the agencys 
overheads, which  isnt reasonable.
They had provided invoices from the medical experts themselves so theres no 
reason not to pay those fees.
Ref: DRN18272312After considering these  comments  from Mr Ns solicitors, the investigator concluded that as 
the solicitors had now provided  some invoices from the medical  experts themselves (as 
opposed to the agency) these particular costs should be paid. She didnt ask LAMP  to add 
interest as Mr N hadnt yet had to pay the fees.  And she didnt think any compensation 
should be paid,  despite the amount  of time since the claim was made, as Mr Ns solicitors 
had been dealing with it for him. So she thought there was little impact  on Mr N himself.
LAMP didnt  reply. As neither party has accepted the investigators  view, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  Theres no dispute  that it was reasonable to obtain medical 
evidence  Mr N needed it to pursue his legal case.  And its reasonable to expect there  will 
be some  fees for this. The issue is not whether its reasonable to pay for medical evidence, 
but about how much should be paid. I wouldnt expect an insurer  to pay whatever is charged, 
however much it is; LAMP is entitled to check how the fees have been incurred, to decide  
whether the amount being claimed is reasonable.
Mr Ns solicitors have  provided two invoices from medical experts themselves, which  total 
£350. These are professional fees,  related to the claim. The amounts are modest and its 
clear what  they relate to. In these circumstances I think  they are reasonably and properly 
incurred, so I agree its reasonable  to expect LAMP to pay these.
The remainder of the fees are from a medical  agency. Although Mr Ns solicitors have 
provided some information about the charges, they havent provided a detailed  breakdown. 
For example, they dont  say how much time has been spent, how many  letters  sent or how 
many phone calls made.
Mr Ns solicitors have  said LAMP agreed to pay these fees in December 2016, when an 
email was sent advising the fees were to be paid. I can see why the solicitors  might think 
from this email that the fees were  likely  to be paid.  But they accept the email is open  to 
interpretation. Although it said confirmation of release  of funds is awaited, until that was 
confirmed, there was no guarantee payment would be made. In any event, the solicitors 
would need to show that, if the email hadnt been  sent, they would have acted differently; for 
example, they would have got a detailed breakdown and presented  this to LAMP, and the 
fees would  have been paid. Taking  into account their view that this wasnt necessary, Im not 
satisfied they would have done  this. After all, their argument has been that the information 
theyd already provided was enough,  and there  was no reason for LAMP to request more. 
On balance, I think its more likely  they would simply have waited to hear from LAMP.
I have considered whether this email would  have caused any distress or inconvenience  to 
Mr N, such that a payment of compensation would be appropriate. I dont think it would have 
caused him any distress, and nor was he put to any trouble; the solicitors were  dealing with it 
for him. And it follows from this that I agree with our investigators view that compensation 
isnt warranted  for the handling  of the claim overall as Mr Ns solicitors dealt with it for him. 
Ref: DRN18272313Mr Ns solicitors say they cant get a further  breakdown without further cost. I dont think  this 
means the information shouldnt be provided. They would have been aware of the risk of the 
insurer scrutinising the costs claimed for when deciding to use a medical agency. So its 
reasonable to expect  them to obtain  details if they want  LAMP  to consider  these  costs.
I appreciate the solicitors  have said the fees are comparable with other  medical agencies  
and other  underwriters have accepted those levels of fees.  But I have to look at this 
particular case.  The amount of work  needed  may be different in each case.  So whats  
charged in another case doesnt necessarily  help decide what  was reasonable in this case. 
Ive considered evidence they have provided  from another insurer.  Although they say they 
wouldnt tend to question  fees like this, that doesnt necessarily mean they would never 
question them.
In any event, the fact that another insurer might not seek such a detailed breakdown doesnt 
mean LAMP cant do so. Where someone is asking their insurer to pay large sums of money 
for disbursements,  I think its reasonable to provide evidence of how those disbursements 
have been calculated. In these circumstances  I agree that its reasonable for LAMP  to 
request a breakdown. 
If thats provided, Id expect LAMP to consider it. But as it stands, my view is that LAMPs 
decision not to pay the agencys  fees is reasonable. I think  it should, however, pay the 
experts fees in respect of the two invoices provided. But, as Mr N hasnt yet had to pay 
those himself, theres no need  for interest  to be added.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct LAMP  Insurance  Company 
Limited to make a payment of £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019. 
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1827231