K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy about the service  he received from Union  Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  
when repatriating him back to the UK under the terms of his travel insurance policy.
Mr Ls mum, Mrs L, is representing Mr L in this complaint. All references to URV  include its 
claims handlers.
background
Whilst on holiday, on 14 June 2018, Mr L fell and injured his leg. An ambulance  was called 
and he was taken  to a hospital.  After having  an x-ray and MRI scan, Mr L was diagnosed 
with knee ligament  damage.
Mrs L contacted Mr Ls travel insurer, URV, and its representative provided  her with a case  
reference number.  Later  the same day, URV  informed Mrs L that as Mr L had been taken to 
a private hospital  he would  need to be transferred to a public hospital for further treatment, 
which she subsequently arranged. 
The hospital  issued Mr L with a fit to fly certificate  the next day, on 15 June 2018. And URV 
booked flights for Mr L and Mrs L to fly back to the UK late on 16 June 2018. URV said it 
would arrange  for a taxi to pick them both up from the UK airport but that taxi never arrived.  
URV accepts that the overall  service  it provided to Mr L was below  par. Its apologised for 
not calling  Mr L back when promised and not providing timely updates. It offered to pay £200 
in compensation.  Mr L doesnt think thats fair, so complained to us. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He concluded  the amount offered by URV fairly compensated Mr L for 
the trouble and upset hed suffered as a result  of URVs failures. Mr L disagrees. So his 
complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask URV 
to do anything more.  I think the offer of £200 is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
When Mrs L first contacted URV shortly after Mr L had been taken to the private hospital, Im 
satisfied URVs  representative shouldve made  enquiries about the hospital hed been taken 
to then; rather than in the subsequent call - around four hours  later. But had Mrs L been  
asked about the hospital when shed first contacted  URV, Mr L wouldve still had to go 
through the inconvenience of having to change hospitals. It doesnt look like the delay had a 
detrimental impact on the care he was receiving, as from what Mrs L says hed been  given  a 
room, his knee  had been bandaged and an ice compression was being  administered. So 
whilst I can understand Mr L being mildly frustrated  about not being told this earlier,  I dont 
think it had too much impact on him.
I can see Mrs L chased URV for updates  throughout  15 and 16 June 2018 as Mr L wasnt 
being kept updated as to what was going  on after it had received the fit for fly certificate.  At 
one stage during  16 June,  URV  told Mrs L that it might not be able to arrange  a flight  back  to 
the UK for another two days as the airline  they travelled abroad with required medical  
clearance for it to issue Mr L the two extra seats  he needed to fly home, and that airline  was 
closed for the weekend.  After Mrs L objected to this, URV was able to book  the required 
Ref: DRN10772932number of seats with an alternative airline for later that night. URV accepts it couldve 
provided more regular updates to Mr L during this time. But, I dont think  the lack of 
communication resulted in a delay repatriating Mr L and Mrs L back to the UK. After  all, 
ultimately, they flew home the day after the fit to fly certificate was issued. 
Ive seen an email from URVs representative to Mrs L dated 16 June 2018 confirming that it 
would arrange  a taxi to collect her and Mr L from the UK airport. URVs system  notes  show  
Mrs L contacted it around 3am on 17 June 2018  saying the taxi hadnt  arrived  and it looks 
like URV  didnt receive confirmation from the taxi provider that a car would  be sent. Im 
satisfied that this was URVs  error; it shouldve chased the taxi provider for this confirmation 
particularly as it had assured  Mrs L that someone would be there  to collect  them. URVs 
notes also reflect it was unable to arrange  alternative transportation  at that time.  So, I accept 
that it was necessary for Mrs L to leave Mr L with their luggage outside the airport in the 
early hours of the morning whilst trying to find a suitable taxi for them  to travel  in. Im 
satisfied this wouldve  frustrated Mr L and, given the time of day, its likely he wouldve been 
worried about his mum having to search  for a taxi.
So Im satisfied that Mr L experienced a moderate  amount of trouble and upset as a result of 
URVs failings in this case.  But, all in all, Im satisfied £200  fairly compensates  him that.
When making this finding, I note Mrs L went to the trouble  of making  many  calls to URV  and 
she says she was distressed about the thought of maybe not being  able to get a flight back  
to the UK for another two days. Thats because she says she was due to run out of her 
diabetes medication.  She also says the worry was causing her heart to race which didnt 
help her high blood  pressure. However, I dont have any power to direct  URV to award her 
any compensation for trouble and upset because she wasnt  named on Mr Ls policy.
Ive also taken into account what Mrs L says about  a nurse intentionally pushing Mr Ls bad 
leg into a wall (and then laughing) and Mr Ls injury being mis-diagnosed at both the private 
and public hospital; it transpires he didnt have  knee ligament damage but a broken leg. 
However, we cant hold URV responsible  for the standard  of care he received in the country 
he was visiting, the actions of the healthcare professionals or the failure to correctly  
diagnose his broken  leg.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask him to accept or reject  my decision before 17 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1077293