K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that his billing cycle didnt change as he expected  and that the interest  rate 
increased on his home shopping credit account with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(trading as Very). 
background
Mr D opened a home shopping  credit  account with Very in 2014  he realised that the 
payment date kept changing, and in February  2018,  he realised they took two payments in a 
month. Mr D has explained that when he queried this, he was told that they take payments 
every four weeks, and that theyre  changing  to a monthly cycle in November 2018. They  also 
refunded the late payment charge and removed a late payment marker from his file. 
The billing cycle didnt change at the end of the year, and in December 2018, Very took two 
payments that month and Mr D said they rung him to make an extra payment. So Mr D 
raised a complaint. He also included his concerns over how the interest  rate increased  
from 34.9%  APR to 49.9% APR.  He said he didnt know it was going  to happen, and its a 
big increase. 
Very replied  in summary, they said: 
Information about the four-week billing  cycle  is in the terms and conditions,  
which are on Verys  website and were available to Mr D during the application 
process. 
They listened to the call from February 2018  the adviser said Very were 
looking to move to a monthly cycle, maybe towards the end of the year.  And that 
if it hadnt changed, Mr D could  call and they could look to sort a temporary  
arrangement. 
Mr D was told about the interest rate change  in writing on 2 December 2017, 
which satisfies the requirements found  in their terms and conditions. 
Because Mr D remained  unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think Very did anything wrong,  but Mr D disagreed   he says he was never  told about 
the interest rate change and feels singled out. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what Mr D was told about his billing  cycle  
Ive looked at Mr Ds credit agreement, which he electronically signed in 2014. Under point 
three and four of the Key Features, it says:
You will be sent a statement every 28 days.  The minimum payment due date will be 
shown on your statement  and will be 20 days after the date of your statement The 
minimum payment due for each 4 week statement period will be shown on each 
statement.
Ref: DRN14754602This information is explained  again  in the section, All about your Very account.  So Im 
satisfied Mr D was told about  and he agreed  to the billing cycle. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr D and SSE in February 2018  to see whether that gave 
him a different expectation  about  the billing cycle. The adviser explained that hes billed 
every 28 days  and that they are building a system  at the moment  so hopefully near the end 
of the year youll be able to go to monthly  payments. Mr D felt he was being stung because 
Very havent got a monthly capacity. The adviser  agrees  to remove the last charge  and said 
again that hopefully the new system is going to be in place soon. She explained the current  
billing cycle  shouldnt cause him a problem again until around November, but if it hasnt 
changed by then, ring us and we can look at something temporary,  maybe an arrangement. 
So, while Very said theyd  hopefully change, I dont think  Mr D was told any certain 
information or given  any promises.  Indeed, if this was a definite change, there wouldnt have 
been a need to explain to him what he could do if the billing cycle hadnt changed by 
November. 
In all, I dont think  that Mr D was given incorrect  information about the billing  cycle   so I 
dont think Very needs to do anything to put things right here.  
how the interest rate changed  
Ive gone on to consider the other aspect of Mr Ds complaint  that he wasnt  told about the 
interest rate going up and that its a big increase. Again, Ive started by looking at the 
agreement that Mr D signed up to. And I can see that under the section Costs of the credit , 
point 14 explains:
We have the right to vary the interest rate, for commercial reasons, upon giving 30 
days written notification to you.
 The agreement goes  on to explain  under Further  Terms and Conditions that: 
We reserve the right to vary the terms of this agreement at any time to reflect:-
changers in applicable laws or regulation;
changes to our systems;
changes in market  conditions affecting our business;
new developments in products, technology  or other changes in lending  
practices; 
additional, enhanced or revised product features; 
new promotional offers;
changes in your personal  circumstances;
changes which in our view effect  your credit  status. 
We will give you 30 days written notice of the variation, where any such  change is not 
to your benefit. You may end this agreement by giving us notice and paying us the 
full outstanding balance before that change takes effect.
So, Im satisfied that Very has a right to increase the interest  rate under a regulated credit 
agreement. Ive gone to consider the provisions under  the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Specifically,  the provisions under CONC 6.7  that 
firms must give 60 days notice of an interest rate increase  and allow the customer to pay off 
Ref: DRN14754603the balance at the current interest rate over a reasonable period. Also,  that a firm must have 
a valid reason to increase the rate, and that if its the risk presented  by the customer,  the firm 
should say so and give a reason if asked.   
Very dont have  a copy of the exact correspondence sent to Mr D about the interest rate 
increase  so it provided an example. The first example they provided related to an interest 
rate decrease  so I dont think its reliable here. The second example does talk about 
interest rate changes, but theyve not provided  anything  by way of persuasive  explanation 
or evidence   that links this particular letter to Mr D. So its difficult  to say this is likely what  
he saw. And even if I were to rely on it, Im not satisfied it met the provisions in CONC 6.7  
it doesnt explain that the change was based on the risk of Mr D (as Very has since  
confirmed was the case), and its not clear that he can pay off the outstanding balance at the 
current interest rate over a reasonable period. 
So, taking into account the regulations, Im not satisfied that Very did what  it shouldve  done 
when it increased  Mr Ds interest rate. It follows that I think Very should reverse the change 
 refunding any additional interest, plus simple interest at 8% per year.  Mr D should be 
aware that if his account with Very remains open,  my decision doesnt  stop them from 
increasing the rate again in the future, upon proper notice. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company  
Limited should reverse the interest rate change and refund any additional interest caused by 
the rate increase, plus simple  interest at 8% per year (less any tax lawfully  deductive) from 
the date of loss to the date of payment.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020. 
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1475460