K820x#14Complaint
Ms W, who is represented by a third party, has complained  to us that Bank of Scotland  plc, 
trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) 
policy in or around  November 1993.  
Background
Ms W bought the MPPI when she was applying for a mortgage that completed in 
March 1994. The MPPI  included  cover  for accident,  sickness and unemployment. She says 
she wasnt given a choice  about  taking out PPI and in any event didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Because  Ms W disagrees, her complaint  
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ms W says she bought the policy during  a meeting. Although she says that Halifax didnt 
make a recommendation about taking out PPI, Halifax  says it did. That means Halifax  
needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms Ws personal  situation and the 
information it gave  her about  the policy was clear,  fair and not misleading. 
Ive seen that Ms W filled in a separate application form to buy the PPI. This included giving 
answers to questions that would help to establish  that she was eligible for the cover. That 
makes me think its likely a discussion about MPPI took place during the meeting  and so 
Ms W would have been aware she was buying  PPI cover  and that she didnt  have to buy if 
she didnt want it. And from the available information it looks to me as if she decided it was 
worth going  ahead with, given that she signed the form.
Ive also seen a welcome  letter sent to Ms W after the sale confirming that shed bought the 
policy and enclosing details about it including information about the cost, how long the policy 
would run and a summary of the policy terms.
Ive next looked to see if theres anything else that makes me think that Halifax might have 
mis-sold the policy. 
From looking  at the MPPI policy terms I cant see that Ms W wouldve been adversely 
affected by any of the main policy terms or exclusions. 
Ive next thought about her personal  situation. Ms W hasnt told us about any work benefits 
she may have been entitled to if she couldnt  work,  but she did tell us she had some  savings. 
Ive seen that the MPPI policy gave Ms W up to 24 months benefit if she wasnt able to work  
because of accident or sickness,  and up to 12 months if she lost her job. By having her 
mortgage, Ms W was having  to maintain  a major  financial commitment. If she couldnt  work 
Ref: DRN18275432she would  suffer a significant fall in income and be at risk of losing her home. So overall I 
think Ms W wouldve found  the policy useful. And it wouldve paid out in addition  to her 
existing work  benefits and avoid the need for her to have to dig into other financial 
resources. 
I think Halifax couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Ms W wouldve still bought it. I dont think the cost of the policy was very different to 
what was available  elsewhere  and the benefits (as Ive said above) seem suitable  for 
Ms Ws circumstances.  The policy cost £13.80 per month, with a monthly benefit of £200.  So 
if Ms W made  a successful claim, she could potentially get a lot more than was paid for the 
policy. 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But as Ive said, 
its unlikely Ms W would have been  affected  by any of these. So it doesnt  seem to me that 
the MPPI  was mis-sold. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Ms W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
It follows that Im not upholding  Ms Ws complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1827543