K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  a number of loans he took out through a company called Uncle  
Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck). 
Mr L says Uncle Buck lent to him irresponsibly because he had numerous  other  loans 
outstanding at the time with other providers and was frequently overdrawn. He says this 
meant that the Uncle Buck  loans he was given were unaffordable and they contributed to 
major financial  problems for him and his family.
background
We now know that Mr L took 2 loans from Uncle  Buck; one in August 2014 and again  in 
August 2017.  Its worth  noting that the terms were  as follows:
loan 1 (£300)  required repayment  in 1 instalment; and  
loan 2 (£500)  required 3 instalments.
Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Ls borrowing  with Uncle Buck,  based on the information it 
provided to us, which can be found in an appendix  at the end of this decision. 
Im really  sorry  that Mr L has had to wait a while for his complaint  to get to this stage. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr L 
some time ago that they didnt  think it should  be upheld. Mr L didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ls 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr L could repay both the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought 
to have taken  into account a range of different  factors,  such as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN12502272the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr Ls complaint.
Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Mr L, including  
assessing his income,  expenditure and net disposable income. It says that based on what  
was said, this information showed that Mr L would be able to make  the loan repayments he 
was committing to on both occasions. 
For the first loan, in August 2014, Mr L declared  his net income (after  tax) as £1,600 per 
month and he also provided details about his expenditure. Our adjudicator  thought that 
whilst its possible  that Uncle Buck might have  sought more  information about his 
expenditure, they didnt think there  was enough evidence to say the complaint ought to be 
upheld. 
Having carefully considered Mr Ls situation,  Im afraid I too dont think  theres enough 
evidence to uphold  this particular part of his complaint either. I think  the repayments on the 
first loan would  most likely have appeared to have been affordable to Uncle Buck  when it 
carried out checks in 2014. For the second  loan, he declared his net income to be £1,600  
and once again I think the repayments  and his other expenditure  would have appeared 
affordable given the types of checks that were carried out and that it was taken out around 
three years after the first.
So I think it was reasonable in this case for Uncle Buck to have relied on this information to 
decide about whether to lend to Mr L on both occasions, bearing in mind  what Ive said 
about the early  stages  of a lending relationship. Both the first and second loan repayments  
were relatively small when set against  both what Mr L said he earned and his other monthly 
commitments. For the second loan I also note there was a large time-gap since he had 
previously been  lent money by the same business.
I do understand that a central  and important part of Mr Ls complaint is that his wider 
financial situation was in a challenging and difficult situation. And I accept that Mr Ls actual 
financial position might  well have  been more apparent to Uncle Buck  if further information, 
such as full bank  statements  or more detailed  credit checks, had been obtained by it at these 
stages. But Uncle Buck made its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time and as it was still in the early stages  of a lending relationship with Mr L I dont think  it 
had yet reached the stage where there was a obvious  and greater risk of either loans being 
unsustainable for him. In short, I think the checks it carried out in this case were 
proportionate.
I looked in detail at the financial products  Mr L said hed had with other providers and also at 
the credit  report he himself says he obtained. However, I dont think  Uncle Buck  would have 
seen this type of information when it lent him the monies and I dont  think  it acted 
Ref: DRN12502273unreasonably given the amount of lending Mr L asked  for, or the time frame over which the 
loan applications  were made.
So in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it was irresponsible for Uncle 
Buck to lend Mr L either of loans 1 or 2.
Finally, I know  Mr L finds it hard to understand that other similar loan complaints  hes had 
have had a different outcome for him. I understand how this might  seem confusing  but Ive 
looked at his dealings with Uncle Buck and the circumstances of the lending it provided. On 
this occasion Im afraid there isnt enough evidence to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP to pay Mr L any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Sequence and 
DateAmount Repayment Type
1  05/08/2014 £350 1 instalment
(But  rolled over twice 27/08/2014;
24/09/2014)
2  24/08/2017 £500 3 instalments
29/09/2017 £259.19
27/10/2017 £259.19
24/11/2017 £253.50
Ref: DRN1250227