K821x#15complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (the bank) hasnt compensated her enough 
for (a) causing her credit file, over a long period of time, to give a misleading picture of her 
creditworthiness to potential lenders  and other  enquirers and (b) maintaining  an internal 
marker or flag within the Bank of Scotland Group,  which meant she couldnt get a mortgage  
or benefit from lower  credit card interest rates.
background
Both underlying issues have been corrected by the bank, which  has accepted they arose 
through the banks errors. The bank  has paid Ms M a total of £1,100 compensation. 
Both issues appear to have arisen  because the bank was mistakenly continuing  to record 
Ms M as linked with a former joint current account from which  Ms Ms name had been 
removed in 2015. After Ms M had removed herself from the account it had been treated by 
the bank as delinquent.  
The bank first corrected  the issue regarding the link and credit file. It then corrected the issue 
regarding the marker.  It paid Ms M compensation in stages.
Ms M says this compensation  isnt adequate.  She has estimated her financial  losses as 
being up to £30,000. She says this arises  mainly from:
the increased costs  of buying the house she was eventually able to buy and move 
into,
unnecessary moving costs, as Ms M had intended to buy the house she rented, but 
the banks actions made that impossible,
having to continue to pay rent for longer than she should have had to, and
higher than necessary credit card costs.
Our investigator concluded the bank had already  paid Ms M enough compensation. She 
wasnt persuaded the losses Ms M claimed had been caused  by the banks admitted errors. 
She concluded the bank had corrected the errors  within  a reasonable time of Ms M raising 
her respective complaints (about the link and credit  file and then about the marker). 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings.  She stands by her assessment of the effect 
the banks actions had on her, even if she accepts that the ombudsman  service can 
ultimately put its own figure on the compensation due. 
Ms M says she raised her concerns with the bank much sooner than the investigator seems 
to accept. She also says that she found  it hard at one crucial  point  to rent another property 
when the prospective  landlord did a credit check on her. 
Ms M made  a data subject access request to the bank and obtained various  information  
which she has copied to the ombudsman service.  Ms M says the results  of the request 
present a confusing  and in part disturbing picture,  and they raise  important  questions  
regarding how the bank has recorded  data about  Ms M. 
Ms M held a phone conversation with me at my request. I wanted to clarify Ms Ms 
understanding of her complaint and my understanding  of the background facts. 
Ref: DRN17506462I earlier reached the following provisional findings on the complaint, which I set out in the 
next section. 
my provisional findings
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Id be asking the bank to pay Ms M 
more compensation,  I hadnt on balance concluded  that the bank should compensate Ms M 
for the financial losses she was claiming. I was sorry to disappoint her. 
I was in no doubt how Ms M felt about  the banks actions, and nothing that I said should  be 
taken as minimising the strength of her feelings.  I entirely accepted how distraught Ms M 
became when confronted with the difficulties she found herself in, and I was sorry shed 
been through that experience. 
In a case like this, it wasnt  necessary for me to decide if the bank had made errors. The 
bank had admitted  them  and it was clear  subject to one important point that Id be 
addressing - what the errors were.  The question then became one of what compensation the 
bank should pay, or what action the bank should  take, in order  to provide redress  to the 
customer.
The important point  I wished to address was this. As Id considered this case, it had struck 
me that a really  important question was when  the bank became aware there  was a problem 
with Ms Ms credit file. Of course the bank was responsible for wrongly associating Ms M 
with the relevant account from the moment the erroneous association was first made. But 
the error  only became of concern when it had a tangible,  real effect on Ms M. The same  
applied to the marker.
The banks records indicated Ms M raised  her complaint about her credit file in 
September 2017. Ms M said she raised her concerns  with the bank  much  earlier  than this. 
Ms M said a bank employee,  on an earlier date (possibly July 2017), referred to the problem 
with her credit file and advised her not to apply for a mortgage as an unsuccessful 
application would worsen her file even more. Ms M had copied to me an email  to Ms M from 
Noddle (a credit report service) from April 2017  which referred to a dispute. Noddle said it 
would get in touch with the data supplier (unnamed) to try and resolve it. And Ms M said she 
remembered a phone  call with the bank in October 2016 during which she took serious 
exception when the bank employee referred to her account as being in collections. Ms M 
had referred to other visits to the bank and phone calls where she said the subject  of her 
credit file was discussed. 
Like any court or dispute-resolution service, the Financial Ombudsman Service had to take 
notice of evidence,  including a lack of evidence. The more  usual  situation,  where  a customer  
raised a concern or complaint about  an issue in more than a passing or negligible way, was 
that it would  be recorded in the banks notes. The customer  would more  often than not send 
the bank emails or letters. This was all the more likely to happen where the issue  was 
causing the customer serious difficulties or obstacles. 
On the basis of the evidence available to me, Id concluded it wasnt until September 2017 
that Ms M pressed her concerns about her credit file and credit status with the bank to the 
point where the bank  was reasonably required  to take action and treat those concerns as a 
complaint. I noted  that Ms M had diligently paid her share of the joint mortgage with the bank  
on a property she no longer lived in, so as to maintain her credit  status.  My thinking was that 
Ref: DRN17506463if, despite the effort and sacrifices she was making  to achieve this, she had become 
concerned about  her credit file sooner, she would have complained more vigorously sooner. 
This was especially so in a case like Ms Ms where  there was no apparent explanation for 
the poor credit rating. 
There was a legal principle which the ombudsman  service took into account,  which  was that 
financial losses had to be not just caused  by the banks error but they also had to be 
reasonably foreseeable, if they were  to be compensated. I thought that once Ms M had 
complained to the bank about her credit file, the problem  was corrected within  a reasonable 
time. Ms M hadnt applied to the bank for a mortgage or to any other mortgage lender. I 
thought that if Ms M had made her complaint sooner  for example because she was intent 
on applying  for a mortgage sooner  - the problem would have been corrected sooner. I saw 
no reason to think otherwise. 
To be clear, I wasnt saying Ms M didnt deserve more compensation because  she was to 
blame for the problem not being  sorted out sooner. I was saying that I didnt think  I could 
fairly require  the bank  to compensate Ms M for the particular financial losses she was 
claiming, given that the circumstances were as Id described them to be. My basic  point was 
that I thought Ms Ms difficulties coincided with when she made her complaint in September 
2017, which was around the time she was hoping to buy the house she was then renting. 
But the bank had removed the account link quite quickly,  by October 2017. 
I appreciated there was an aggravating factor: the marker wasnt  removed  when the credit 
file/link issue was corrected. Ms M had to make a further complaint for the marker to be 
removed. While the marker remained in place it wouldnt have been possible  for Ms M to 
obtain a mortgage from the bank or members of its Group. But it shouldnt have prevented 
Ms M from applying for a mortgage to other  lenders  the marker wasnt evident on the credit  
file. Ms M had said she didnt apply  for a mortgage  at that point  because  her credit  file still 
appeared to be bad, when  a proposed landlord did a credit check on her. But that ought not 
to have been due to the bank, as the link with the current account  had by that time been 
removed, and the marker was internal to the bank.  
Once again, my thinking was that the marker was removed fairly  quickly once the bank 
became aware  of it, and meanwhile  it ought  not in itself to have prevented Ms M from 
obtaining a mortgage, from another lender if not from the bank. 
Regarding the credit  card interest,  Ms M said she would probably have been  able to take 
advantage of offers that would have been made to her to consolidate  her debt and pay lower 
interest, if the link and the marker  hadnt  existed. The bank denied this was so. It said Ms M 
had never  qualified for lower interest on her credit card debt. 
My finding  was that it was too speculative  to say that, without the link and marker, Ms M 
would have paid lower interest.  It was by no means  normal or routine that credit  card 
customers came to pay lower interest, at least if they merely  stayed with their existing 
provider, and this appeared to be confirmed by the bank, which  said that Ms M didnt qualify 
to pay lower rates. 
Apart from that, I saw a similarity between the mortgage issue and the credit card debt. If it 
was Ms Ms wish to pay lower interest on her debt, one might expect an approach to the 
bank in those  terms  which was indeed what Ms M ultimately did when she made  her 
complaints  and the impediments were then removed. It would be going too far in my view 
Ref: DRN17506464to treat Ms M as having been entitled  to pay lower interest on her credit  card debt in those 
circumstances. 
Regarding the data request and the banks response,  I didnt mean this disrespectfully to 
Ms M but I didnt think these called for any particular action or comment from me. The data 
that Ms M had obtained werent  known or available  to her when the events  underlying her 
complaint were happening.  What mattered to the ombudsman service  in terms of the 
complaint was what the facts, including the banks actions, were and what effect  they could 
foreseeably have. It was often not necessary for an ombudsman  investigation  to find out the 
reasons why a banks  errors occurred, and I didnt think it was necessary  to do so in this 
case. For that matter,  I didnt think the data obtained  helped to understand why the errors  
occurred.
Finally, I thought the compensation  paid by the bank wasnt  adequate to compensate  Ms M 
for the distress caused to her by the banks  errors.  In particular the failure to identify and 
remove the marker at the same time as the link seriously aggravated the upset caused to 
Ms M. It must have  been extremely distressing in the circumstances for Ms M to believe the 
cause of her difficulties had been  removed, only to find those same difficulties persisting, at 
least to an important extent. To be clear,  I thought  the extra compensation was due even 
though, in terms of ombudsman  awards,  £1,100 for non-financial  loss was a substantial  sum 
and even though the bank had acted to remove the problems reasonably quickly when 
Ms Ms complaints were investigated. I thought the bank should pay an additional £500. 
Responses to my provisional findings
While grateful for my provisional decision that the bank should pay her more, Ms M remains  
of the view that the bank should be held responsible for her financial losses, in particular 
during the six months that it took the bank to remove the internal marker  from the point 
when, at the latest, it became aware  of it.
Ive considered all of Ms Ms points made in response to my provisional  findings, and what  
follows isnt an exhaustive  summary, but among  those points Ms M has said:
The bank  owed  her a duty of care, so the bank  should be responsible for the 
consequences of wrongly linking her to a delinquent  account from the moment  that 
occurred, not just from when it became known or caused her tangible problems.
Shes shown enough  evidence to indicate  shed raised substantial concerns  with the 
bank much earlier than September  2017.  If the bank had made proper  notes, this 
would have been clear from the banks own records. 
The fact that she was no longer named on the account may explain why the bank 
failed to realise she was still being wrongly linked to it. 
Serious difficulties in her personal  life also explain why she didnt  formalise  her 
complaint in writing  earlier.  
The bank  didnt  remove the internal marker reasonably  quickly,  either from when it 
became aware  of it or at all. 
Ref: DRN17506465She didnt apply to other mortgage lenders because she reasonably  believed  this 
might harm  her credit record further,  and not being an expert she wasnt  to know that 
the marker wouldnt be visible to lenders outside  the banks group of companies. 
She insists the banks  wrongful actions  caused the large  financial losses and 
tremendous dislocation to her personal life and the lives of her children  that shes 
described, especially  in the crucial  six month  period. She should be compensated 
accordingly. 
The bank broadly accepted my provisional findings.  
my final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im again sorry to disappoint Ms M, but 
Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional findings.
I dont think I can fairly  conclude that the link and the marker prevented Ms M from obtaining 
a mortgage in time to buy the house. In particular, it doesnt seem fair to me to make the 
bank responsible for Ms Ms decision,  once the link had been  removed,  not to pursue  a 
mortgage application with the bank more vigorously  in which case I think  the marker  would  
have been identified as the stumbling  block and removed more quickly  - or to apply to 
another mortgage lender  for a mortgage.  
It seems  Ms M didnt  do the latter either  (or partly)  out of loyalty to the bank or/and because  
of a fear the application(s) might fail and damage  her credit record further. From what Ms M 
has said, it seems  this fear stemmed partly  from what credit reference agency websites said.  
But my basic point  is that, once the link was removed,  I dont  think  there was anything 
preventing Ms M from getting a mortgage, if not from the bank  then from another lender. 
That being  so, I cant reasonably ask the bank to pay the further compensation Ms M is 
seeking.
Most other points in terms of the claim for financial loss fall away once this principal finding  
that the link and the marker didnt cause  Ms Ms financial loss  has been made.
I continue to think, for the reasons given in my provisional findings, that it wouldnt be fair to 
compensate Ms M as if shed been  entitled to pay lower interest on her credit card debts. 
None of what Ive said should be taken as diminishing the great  distress  and inconvenience 
that the banks  actions  caused to Ms M and for which, if Ms M accepts this decision, shell 
have received in total £1,600 compensation from the bank. 
my final decision
I confirm my provisional findings  as final. I require Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Ms M a 
further £500. 
Ref: DRN17506466Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1750646