K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  plc (trading as TSB at the time) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card person.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says the policy was added without his knowledge. But Ive seen a copy  of his 
signed application form for the credit card. It includes a section on PPI, and theres a box 
to tick if the applicant wishes to take out the cover. Theres  a tick in the box on Mr Hs 
application. Its possible that the form was completed by the banks advisor, but if so, 
I think its more likely than not that this followed  a discussion about the cover, and 
confirmation by Mr H that he wished to take it. 
Im satisfied  that it would have  been  clear from the way the form was set out that PPI 
was optional. And Mr H signed  the form. Ive also borne in mind  that the premiums  for 
the policy would have appeared on Mr Hs credit card statements. And if he didnt want 
the cover, I think its likely that hed have contacted Lloyds to ask about cancelling it. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he did so. Taking  everything into account,  Im satisfied  that 
Lloyds made it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional,  and that he chose to take it out- 
though I can understand why he may no longer  remember this, so many years  later.
Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr H. This means it had a responsibility to check that it 
was suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time.  Mr H has told us hed have been entitled to six months  
full pay, followed  by six months half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off 
sick. And hed have  been entitled to redundancy pay too. But the policy  would have 
helped with Mr Hs credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
Thats longer  than Mr H has told us hed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats  
more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments he received from his employer. 
So he could  have used those  to cover other living expenses.  
I acknowledge that Mr H says his family would have helped with his credit  card 
repayments if necessary.  But circumstances can change,  and I cant be sure that Mr Hs 
family would  have been in a position  to help if the need  had arisen. So taking everything 
into account, I think the policy could have been  useful for him.
Ref: DRN18384572Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. For example,  I accept that it may not have  been made clear that Mr H would 
have needed to pay interest on the PPI premiums as part of his credit card balance  if he 
didnt pay it off in full each month. But the policy was competitively priced and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr H couldnt  afford  it. Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr H 
chose to take out the policy. So he appears  to have  wanted  this type of cover, even if 
hes understandably forgotten that now. And he wasnt  affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover (for example, unusual employment arrangements,  or existing 
medical conditions). 
Taking everything into account,  I think its unlikely Mr H would have made  a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance  I think  hed still have  taken 
out the policy.
Ive taken into account all Mr Hs comments,  including what  hes said about not having been 
told about different  types of insurance that were  available from other  lenders. But Lloyds 
wasnt obliged to provide information  about products that might have been available  from 
other providers. 
Mr H has also commented that he had several loans  from Lloyds and he says he didnt take 
PPI on those. But Ive only considered  his complaint about  the PPI on his credit  account. 
And for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that he agreed to have PPI on that account. So 
these points dont  change my conclusion that the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold.
This means  that Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair.
To put that right,  Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1838457