K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc handled a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy for water  damage to their carpet. 
background
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs A noticed that the radiator in their lounge  had leaked  onto 
their carpet. So, they contacted Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) to make a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
RSA instructed an agent, who Ill refer to as R, to inspect the damage  sustained to the 
lounge carpet. After R visited Mr and Mrs As property it reported back  to RSA that the 
carpet and felt underlay had been  damaged beyond repair. R assessed the damaged  carpet 
to be of Ulster York grade  with an 80:20 mix. But Mr and Mrs A said this was an inferior  
carpet and that theirs  was an Ulster Velvet  grade. 
They complained to RSA and instructed a local carpet  company  to visit their property to 
assess the quality  of the carpet that had been damaged.  This company disagreed  with the 
assessment R had made about the quality of the carpet. It said the damaged  carpet was 
100% wool and quoted  £4,050 to replace it. Mr and Mrs A provided this information and the 
companys details to RSA who made  further  enquiries with it directly.
When RSA reflected on the information  provided  by the carpet company Mr and Mrs A had 
consulted it accepted R had assessed the quality of the damaged carpet  incorrectly.  So it 
asked R to provide  a revised quote  for the lounge carpet based on the Velvet grade. The 
superior carpet was about £11 more per square meter. So, RSA increased the amount it was 
prepared to offer to replace the damaged carpet  from just under £2,000 to almost  £3,100  
from which it would deduct  a £250  policy excess.  It also sent Mr and Mrs A a cheque  for £75 
to compensate them for the delays Rs error had caused. 
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  with how RSA proposed to settle  their claim. They  said theyd 
lost confidence  in R. So, they wanted to instruct a company  of their choice to supply and fit 
the carpet RSA had agreed to replace. But they said the cash  settlement theyd been  offered 
by RSA didnt  cover the cost of a like for like replacement carpet  and its installation.  
As RSA wasnt prepared to increase its cash settlement offer Mr and Mrs A brought their 
complaint to our service. They werent  happy  with the length of time it had taken RSA to deal 
with their claim. They also thought the quality  of underlay that was being offered would 
reduce the life of their new carpet. And they complained that RSA wasnt prepared to include 
new gripper rods in its valuation of the claim.  They said this would affect the quality of the fit.
Our investigator looked into all of Mr and Mrs As concerns and didnt uphold this complaint. 
Overall, they thought  RSA had dealt with the complaint fairly and acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. But Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with our investigators  view and asked for 
their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN13515772Mr and Mrs A have  referred our service to some examples  of media  reports. But its not our 
role to comment on wider industry issues. So, I wont be able to address this issue  for Mr 
and Mrs A. Instead, Ill comment on whether RSA handled their claim  for water damage 
fairly. As there are a number of issues to Mr and Mrs As complaint Ill focus on each  
separately.
Value of replacement  carpet
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs As lounge carpet  was damaged  by their radiator when it 
leaked. This is covered under their policy, which says when a carpet  cant  be repaired it will 
be replaced on a like by like basis. Alternatively, RSA is entitled  to pay the replacement  cost 
to the policyholder.
RSA initially undervalued the damaged carpet. But this was based  on the incorrect  
assessment that R had made. Im pleased to see that, after Mr and Mrs A provided their own 
quote to RSA, it accepted the replacement carpet R quoted for was for an inferior quality 
carpet. And it increased  the amount it was prepared  to pay to settle this claim.
Mr and Mrs A arent happy  with the value RSA offered for their replacement  carpet.  They say 
it means they cant purchase the carpet they want for that amount. And they feel RSA should 
increase the amount its prepared to pay. With that in mind Ive carefully considered whether 
the amount RSA has offered to settle this claim fairly  reflects the value of Mr and Mrs As 
damaged carpet.  And Ill explain why I think it does.
Mr and Mrs As insurance policy sets out how claims are settled in clear  and plain language.  
The relevant  section that applies  to carpets  can be found on page 28 and says:
Where we cannot repair a damaged carpet, we will replace  the carpet with a new one of 
similar quality  through our preferred suppliers or, at our option,  we will pay the replacement 
cost of a new one of similar quality.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  the revised valuation  that R provided  to RSA 
is based on a similar quality to the carpet its intended to replace. So, Im persuaded RSA 
has agreed to provide  a carpet  that matches  the quality and specification  of Mr and Mrs As 
damaged carpet in line with the terms of their policy.
R has said it can replace  Mr and Mrs As carpet for just under £3,100. This is significantly 
lower than the quote Mr and Mrs A obtained.  But it doesnt mean the carpets  are of different 
quality. I say this because Rs quote  has been calculated using the scheme price rather than 
the retail price. The scheme  price is the discounted  price RSA benefits from when it uses a 
preferred supplier. This explains  why Mr and Mrs A are finding  it difficult  to obtain the same 
carpet themselves  for the money theyve been  offered by RSA. 
R is one of RSAs  preferred suppliers.  And, in accordance  with the policys terms and 
conditions, if Mr and Mrs A dont want RSA to replace their carpet through  its preferred 
supplier they can request  it pay them a cash settlement instead. In those circumstances their 
policy states that the amount wont normally exceed what RSA would have paid its preferred 
supplier. 
Here RSA initially offered  Mr and Mrs A the option  of R supplying and fitting the new carpet. 
When they declined  this option  it offered a cash settlement amount in the sum that it would 
have cost for R to supply  and install the new carpet. While I appreciate that RSAs cash 
Ref: DRN13515773settlement offer is frustrating for Mr and Mrs A Im satisfied it offered to settle their claim in 
line with the terms  of their insurance  policy. So, I wont be asking it to do any more.
Underlay
Mr and Mrs A arent happy  with the quality of the replacement underlay theyve been offered. 
The underlay they had was felt. And theyve  been offered a pad felt/paper  underlay, which 
they say is usually used alongside  a second  underlay. They  think  using it by itself will 
considerably reduce  the life of their replacement carpet.
Ive seen the quote Mr and Mrs A obtained  themselves,  which includes the cost of rubber 
and felt underlay. Ive also seen the validation and inspection reports  that were completed  by 
R which state that underlay isnt needed.  This explains  why RSA told Mr and Mrs A that if 
they want their underlay replacing it would be at their cost.  I dont think this is unreasonable.
The quote  R provided included the cost of underlay. But this was done  in error. And I think  
RSA has acted fairly by agreeing to honour  that cost because of the mistake R made even 
though replacement underlay  wouldnt have  been  covered under Mr and Mrs As policy  in 
this case. So, I wont be asking RSA to do anymore  here.
Gripper rods
The company that provided a quote to Mr and Mrs A thought new gripper rods were  
required. But R reached a different view. RSA says it has no evidence to show that the 
gripper rods were damaged, which is why is hasnt offered to replace them. The quote that 
Mr and Mrs A provided includes the cost of new gripper roads. But it doesnt say theyre 
needed. And Ive seen  no evidence from either  RSA or Mr and Mrs A to show  that the 
original gripper rods cant be used. It follows that I cant fairly hold RSA responsible for the 
cost of replacing gripper  rods.
Guarantee
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that R only provides  a two month guarantee for its carpet fitting 
and a one year guarantee for the carpet. Theyve said if they decide to replace their carpet 
and have it fitted by R theyd  like their local contractor to check the quality of the installation.  
Theyd also like R to provide a two year guarantee to cover  the carpet and its installation.
Its clear Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with R. It initially  undervalued their carpet and I can 
understand their frustration about  that. But, while I appreciate their concerns, it doesnt follow 
that the quality  of the carpet installation would be compromised if R was to fit it. And, I cant 
fairly tell RSA to cover  the cost of a local contractor checking the quality of the installation in 
those circumstances.  If Mr and Mrs A choose  to replace their carpet via R, and are unhappy 
with the installation, they are able to raise  any concerns they may have with both R and RSA 
post installation.  
As regards  the guarantee R has offered Mr and Mrs A here,  its up to R what  warranty its 
prepared to offer. However, RSA will need  to ensure any guarantee or warranty runs for the 
same period  as it would if Mr and Mrs A had bought the carpet from a retailer  themselves.
Delay
Ref: DRN13515774I understand why Mr and Mrs A arent  happy  with the length of time it took for RSA to deal 
with their claim. I can see that this was caused  by the incorrect valuation  that R made of the 
damaged carpet,  which caused RSA to offer Mr and Mrs A a lower quality carpet. 
Ive seen the efforts they had to go to in order to correct it about the quality of the damage it 
was replacing. And I appreciate the time that would have incurred. But we arent here to 
punish businesses  and, to put things right, Id have asked RSA to pay compensation in an 
amount that was reasonable to cover telephone and sundry expenses and to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience that this delay is bound to have caused Mr and Mrs A. Its 
already done this. And its paid Mr and Mrs A £75. 
Im satisfied this is a reasonable amount, which fairly recognises the impact  this delay 
caused. Its is in line with our approach in similar  scenarios. So, I wont  be asking RSA to 
increase that amount.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about the issues  raised  in this complaint. 
But theres nothing  to persuade me that RSA has treated  them unfairly or unreasonably. So, 
Im not going  ask it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1351577