K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
unfairly terminated his hire purchase  agreement for a car.
background 
In October 2016 Mr C acquired a car via a four year hire purchase  agreement.  
Unfortunately, his financial circumstances changed  leading to missed  payments on the car 
between November 2017 and April 2019, although  he was able to make several payments 
at intervals to clear the arrears.
Due to Mr Cs management of the account  VWFS issued three default notices, one in 
March and the second in July 2018  and then the third in February 2019. Mr C was also 
required to complete  an income and expenses form to review how the arrears would be 
cleared.
In March 2019 Mr C called VWFS  as there were three monthly  payments missing  for 
September and November 2018  and February 2019.  A further income  and expenditure 
review was undertaken and it was agreed that Mr C would pay off the arrears  over five 
months starting on a set date in April 2019.  The agent speaking  with Mr C warned that if 
the agreed payment towards  the arrears wasnt made on the date due then the agreement 
was at risk of being terminated.
Mr C did not make a payment on the date set and VWFS decided  to terminate 
the agreement  and seek to repossess  the car.
A few days after the date set for the first payment off the arrears  Mr C received three 
letters from VWFS. One letter said that Mr C had seven days to clear the arrears, another  
that the situation  with the arrears remains unresolved so the account is to be passed on 
and one informed  Mr C that the agreement had been terminated.
Mr C says that he received the letters over Easter  so was unable to call VWFS until after 
the Bank holiday which was five days on from the date of the three letters.  Mr C says his 
intention was to clear  the arrears but when he phoned he was told that the agreement had 
been terminated and could not be reinstated. He complained to VWFS but his complaint  
was not upheld. VWFS said it had listened  to the March 2019 call and confirmed that the 
date for the payment  to be made had been  set during that call.
VWFS agreed to give Mr C a couple  of weeks to sell the car himself.  Mr C says he wasnt 
able to do so as there was a mistake on the hire purchase agreement as to the model  of 
car meaning  the dealership wasnt able to proceed  with purchasing it. Mr C says that 
VWFS didnt  assist him with this.
VWFS instructed  an agent to collect the car and it was arranged for it to be sold via 
auction. Mr C saw that the car had been  advertised by the auctioneers under the category 
of government vehicles  meaning the car was considered to be from the proceeds of crime. 
He complained to VWFS who notified the auctioneers  and the car was re-advertised. Mr C 
said this error had deeply embarrassed him and complained to VWFS. VWFS said this 
wasnt its error but that of the auction house. It had requested the car be removed from the 
group it had been advertised with straightaway.
Ref: DRN17699412When the car was sold Mr C says it reached  a lower price  than he had been quoted from 
an online  website that purchases cars.
Mr C complained to this service that VWFS  had acted fairly  in terminating the 
agreement and had then mishandled the selling of the car. Our investigator partially 
upheld Mr Cs complaint.
Our investigator said that she didnt think it had been unreasonable  for VWFS to terminate 
the agreement  as there was a history of missed payments and repayment plans that 
hadnt been kept too. Our investigator said that Mr C had received a number of letters from 
VWFS about his account, including past default notices, so she thought  Mr C was aware 
of the consequences  of not paying  as agreed.
Our investigator said that the three  letters sent in April 2019 to Mr C would have caused 
confusion as they were  contradictory. She said she thought  it would have been  fair to 
have given Mr C the seven days from the date of the letter that asked him to clear  the 
arrears. However our investigator  said that she thought that even if he had been given 
these extra days Mr C would have been  unlikely to clear the arrears looking at the history 
of how he managed  his account. She said she thought £100 compensation would be fair 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by VWFS  terminating  the agreement  before 
Mr C had expected.
Our investigator said that shed  seen it was the wrong model of car recorded on the hire 
purchase agreement.  This had first been  raised  in May 2018 and asked to be amended,  
but this hadnt happened.  However,  when the collection agent  had raised this issue  with 
VWFS in May 2019, it had been able to confirm  on the same  day that as the VIN was the 
same on the car and on the agreement that it was the correct car. She said she hadnt 
seen any evidence this error had caused  a detriment to Mr C and couldnt  reasonably  say 
this issue had caused a delay with the sale of the car. Our investigator  said there could 
have been a number of reasons why a dealership may decide not to proceed  with buying a 
car.
Our investigator said that the auction listing error had been  outside of VWFSs control and 
it had sought to rectify the error  as soon as Mr C had notified it of what had happened. She 
also said that she didnt  think  the price achieved for the car had been substantially  different
from the price Mr C had had quoted. She said she thought  the sale price had been 
reasonable.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators  view.  He said he disagreed  that he wouldnt have 
been able to clear the arrears as he had the money ready in his account. Mr C said it 
had been unreasonable  for VWFS to terminate the agreement.
Mr C said that when the dealership that had been interested  in purchasing the car carried
out a HPI check the car had been  listed as a different model.  He says VWFS refused  to 
help him with this.
Mr C also said that as VWFS had instructed the auction  house to sell the car it should be 
aware of the terms under  which  it was listing it. He said that listing the car as a proceed  of 
crime had reflected negatively on Mr C and his business.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines. 
Ref: DRN17699413Id listened to the call between Mr C and VWFS that took place in March 2019.  During  this 
call the agent  set out that the account was in arrears by three monthly payments. The agent 
carried out an income and expenditure review  with Mr C and it was agreed that he would 
pay off the arrears over five months and that these  payments would be made  in addition to 
the usual monthly  payments. There was then a discussion  as to when the arrears payments 
would commence and Mr C asked  if this could be April rather  than in March. The agent 
agreed that this was permissible and confirmed  with Mr C that the payment had to be made 
on a sedate in April - which was the same date as the usual monthly payment. It was 
agreed that Mr C would  make these payments manually.  The agent also informed Mr C that 
if this payment plan was broken then the agreement was at risk of being  terminated.
I was satisfied on what Id heard that a repayment plan with a set start date had been 
agreed between  Mr C and VWFS in March 2019.  I was also satisfied that he was told what  
may happen if he defaulted  and, looking at the number of letters sent to Mr C by VWFS  over 
the time hed had difficulties paying regularly, I thought it was reasonable to say Mr C was 
aware of the consequences of missing a payment.
Mr C missed making the payment against the arrears on the date greed. So, taking this into 
account as well as looking at the history of how Mr C had managed  this account, I thought 
it was reasonable  for VWFS to terminate the agreement when it did. And once the 
agreement was terminated it couldnt  be reinstated.
I agreed that that the three letters  sent by VWFS, all with the same  date in April 2019, 
caused unnecessary  confusion  to Mr C. Id seen that these letters  were  sent after the 
agreed date for the payment plan to start,  but they had led him to think  that he may have 
had additional  time to make the payment. However, by the time he had received those 
letters, Mr C should have  already  made  his first payment under the agreed payment plan.
So, I disagreed with our investigator  that it would have been fair for VWFS  to provide Mr C 
with the extra time before  terminating the hire purchase  agreement. But, as the 
correspondence would have misled Mr C about  what was happening  with his account,  I 
thought compensation of £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused  
when Mr C learnt he didnt have extra time to pay was justified.
Id seen that the car was wrongly  described on the hire purchase  agreement though the VIN 
was correctly recorded. Looking at VWFSs  notes on Mr Cs account Id seen that he 
queried this with VWFS in May 2018 and again in 2019. I didnt know  why the agreement 
wasnt amended  in 2018. However, VWFS said the dealers invoice for the car had shown 
the correct model  and when it checked the cars  VIN and registration  with a credit  agency 
the correct model  was also shown. So, I thought  if a retailer had queried this then the issue 
would have been resolved  reasonably  quickly. I didnt  have  any evidence that the only 
reason the dealership approached by Mr C to buy the car in May 2019 didnt do so was 
solely because of the error on the hire purchase agreement.
I could understand why Mr C was upset by the car being listed  and advertised  as a proceed  
of crime by the auction house. But I disagreed that I could reasonably say that VWFS  
should be liable for this error. Id seen it had acted  to have the listing corrected as soon as 
this was brought to its attention by Mr C. I didnt  think  I could reasonably hold VWFS  
responsible for a mistake  made by the auction house.
Ref: DRN17699414Id seen that Mr C was disappointed with the sale price achieved for the car. But I didnt think 
the price,  though lower than had been indicated to Mr C, was unreasonable. The prices cars 
fetch can vary depending  on demand. I didnt think VWFS acted unreasonably selling the car 
via an auction  as this was the usual practice.
So, for the reasons set out above,  I was intending  to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint.
VWFS has agreed with my provisional view but Mr C hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  asked to look at anything  again  by either of the parties  my view hasnt 
changed. So for the reasons set out above  Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint and 
require VWFS to pay him £100 compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience and 
distress caused by receiving the three  different letters about his account on the same day. I 
accept this would have caused  confusion.
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im asking  Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr C £100 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience 
caused by the confusion  which resulted from him receiving three different letters about his 
account on the same day.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1769941