K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the mortgage  advice he received from an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). 
Mr M is represented  in bringing this complaint  by a claims management company (CMC). 
background 
Mr M remortgaged in January 2006. He was advised by a mortgage broker  from the firm 
Carrington Carr, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the time.
In 2016, the CMC raised a complaint with L&G on Mr Ms behalf. It said hed been mis-sold a 
will and estate planning package  and a legal administration service  as part of the mortgage 
advice hed received. It raised a number of concerns  about  both additional services,  covering 
their cost and the lack of clear information  Mr M had been given. And it said the broker had 
been pressured into using a particular  firm of solicitors  to carry out the legal work.
L&G upheld the complaint  in part. It thought  Mr M had a need for the will package, but didnt 
think it was right that the fee for this had been added to the mortgage balance. So it offered 
to refund the mortgage interest that wouldve attracted over the full mortgage  term. It also 
offered £150 for the inconvenience caused. 
On the legal administration fee, L&G said this had been legitimately charged for work carried 
out by the broker.  And it couldnt  see that Mr M couldve got a free legal service elsewhere, 
or that hed been coerced  into using a particular firm of solicitors to carry out the 
conveyancing work  involved. So it didnt offer to refund any of these costs.
The CMC then referred Mr Ms complaint to us. But our investigator thought L&G had made 
a fair offer to put things right. As the CMC didnt agree  with that, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The will package
While the CMC has said that the will package recommended to Mr M wasnt suitable,  its not 
actually said why. I dont  think its bad advice to keep such  arrangements under review   or 
indeed to make a will if one isnt already in place. And I cant  see anything about Mr Ms 
circumstances that meant there was no benefit in him doing so. So I dont think it was an 
inappropriate recommendation.
The will package itself was provided  by a third party and thats not something I can hold L&G 
responsible for. So if Mr M has concerns about  the quality of the service  he received  
and/or the price  he had to pay for it  then such issues would need to be addressed to the 
provider.
Ref: DRN17900672It may not have been good  advice  to fund the will package by adding the fee to the mortgage 
balance. And as the decision  to do so formed part of the brokers recommendation, that is 
something that L&G is responsible for. But its already accepted that might  not have been 
appropriate for Mr M and offered to refund  him any interest hes incurred as a result. So that 
means he wont have  lost out financially  as a result of that decision. L&G has also offered 
him £150 compensation, which seems reasonable for any upset or inconvenience hes been 
caused.
The CMC has made  a number of other  arguments about the referral  by the broker  to a 
particular will-writing company, most  notably  that the two businesses  had directors in 
common. I dont find that this renders advice to take out a will inherently unsuitable or 
inappropriate. It seems to me that Mr M wouldve had the opportunity  to decline a review  of 
these arrangements if hed not wished to proceed. 
So I cant see any basis on which to require L&G to refund the fee for the will package, as 
the CMC  has requested.
The legal costs  
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by the 
broker rather than the solicitor in the form of a legal  administration fee. I dont find anything  
inherently unreasonable in that; there are a number of administrative  procedures that need 
not have been carried out by a solicitor.  The broker advised Mr M of the likely legal fees at 
the outset and to whom  theyd be paid, when he confirmed his instruction to pay £195 plus 
VAT for such costs  to the solicitors and £250 plus VAT to the broker. And thats what  he paid 
 so I cant say he was misled or misinformed.
The CMC also says that Mr M couldve got free legal  services through  the lender, but theres 
no evidence to suggest that was the case. So Mr M would always  have  needed to pay for 
the conveyancing work  to be done. It was then a matter for him to decide who to instruct  in 
that regard, and Ive not seen anything to suggest  he didnt have the freedom  to appoint his 
own solicitors  if he wished.
The legal costs  were  paid with additional mortgage  funds, but thats not particularly  
uncommon or inherently unsuitable. And the fact find notes that Mr M preferred to add the 
costs to the balance as opposed to paying  them upfront. So in the circumstances I dont 
think theres anything  wrong  in the broker recommending  that he do so.
The CMC also raised  concerns that the broker received commission for recommending the 
firm of solicitors  used  for the conveyancing  work. But while the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which  the CMC has accepted. 
So I make no finding on that matter here.
Ref: DRN17900673my final decision
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited has already made  an offer to settle  Mr Ms 
complaint that I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
So my decision is that Legal & General Partnership Services Limited must pay Mr M in line 
with that offer, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1790067