K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that he was given  unsuitable advice to switch  a number of personal  
pensions to a SIPP and to then invest in an overseas property investment.  He  says this 
advice was given  by an adviser working  for Capital Planning UK Ltd an appointed 
representative (AR) of TenetConnect Limited.   
Mr C is represented by a complaint  management company (CMC).
background
In 2005 Mr C authorised  the AR to approach a number of pension  providers.  In October 
2005 a SIPP  application was completed.  This recorded that the AR was acting as Mr Cs 
financial adviser and that his intention  was to switch a number of personal pensions  to the 
SIPP.  It was also recorded  that once this had taken place the intention was to invest the 
funds in Spanish land.
However, the switch  of the personal pensions to the SIPP did not take place until early 2007.  
Later, in March 2008 the funds were  invested in an overseas property scheme.   This  was a 
different investment to that recorded  on the original SIPP application form.
By the time the personal pensions were switched  and the overseas property investment was 
made the original  adviser was no longer working  for the AR.  In addition  the AR had ceased  
to act for Tenet in early  2006.  Because of this the investigators view that it was not 
reasonable to hold Tenet responsible for the later switch and investment.  
The CMC acting for Mr C did not agree.  It said advice had been given to Mr C to switch  his 
personal pensions  to a SIPP and this was opened  in 2005.  As Mr C should never have been 
advised to open a SIPP he should  be put in the position he originally was i.e. his original 
personal pensions  should be reinstated.
Tenet had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons.
There is very little documentary evidence about what  went  on between Mr C and the adviser.  
The only real evidence  of advice is the account opening form which  lists the AR as Mr Cs 
adviser.  However, no documentary evidence of any advice such as a suitability report  has 
been provided.  The SIPP application  form was dated October 2005.  However, for reasons 
which arent entirely clear  the SIPP was set up but the personal  pensions intended to be 
switched into the SIPP remained  where  they were. The fees for setting up the SIPP were 
eventually paid by the advisers new employer.  So as far as the setting up of the original 
SIPP is concerned  Mr C has not suffered a financial loss.  The  personal  pensions remained 
invested and Mr C didnt  pay any costs associated with the SIPP.
On 5 April 2007  Mr C emailed the SIPP operator and wrote:
Ref: DRN13346992Can you confirm that I have invested  in a deposit/cash fund backed account.  I have 
urgently tried to contact  my IFA but without success.  I want  to use some of the funds  to 
purchase land overseas.
At this time the original  adviser was no longer working for the AR.  The  advisers new 
employer was recorded by the SIPP operator  as Mr Cs adviser.  However, my interpretation  
of the above comments made by Mr C is that the decision to switch  the personal pensions to 
the SIPP and invest in overseas property was made by Mr C without any input from an 
adviser.  I have reviewed all the correspondence  concerning the overseas land investment 
and can see no reference to any adviser  being  involved.  
I am therefore satisfied  that it was Mr Cs decision to switch  his personal pensions  to the 
SIPP in early 2007 and that the investment into overseas property  was his own decision.  
There is nothing to suggest that the AR or any other adviser played  any part in this decision.   
The original  advice in 2005 did not result in any financial  loss for Mr C.  There are therefore  
no grounds for holding  Tenet responsible for the losses suffered by Mr C.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1334699