K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  are holding money following a review  on 
his account. 
Background
Mr R purchased a second-hand watch from one of his friends and decided  to sell it. He listed  
the watch on a few sites,  and a third-party from another  country contacted him to buy it. Mr R 
and the third-party  agreed a price. Fortunately,  Mr R had another friend who lived in the 
same country as the third-party. So, Mr R sent the watch to his friend  to arrange the sale of 
the watch. The third-party transferred the agreed amount, around £21,000, to Mr Rs 
Nationwide account  in April 2019.
On the day Mr R received  the money, he transferred some  of it into one of his other 
Nationwide accounts,  before transferring it to an external account. He left around £13,000 in 
his original account.
A couple of days later,  Nationwide  blocked  Mr Rs account due to suspected  fraud concerns. 
Mr R couldnt access money from any of his Nationwide accounts. Mr R called Nationwide to 
find out what was happening  they explained  hed need  to provide evidence that he was 
entitled to the money and asked for statements from the third-party.
Mr R sent Nationwide  screenshots from the third-party to show  the transaction had been 
made. However, these  werent in English and therefore, Nationwide  couldnt understand 
them fully. Mr R couldnt send any further evidence as Nationwide had asked so they didnt 
release the money or unsuspend his accounts.
Nationwide made  the decision to close Mr Rs accounts and held on to the money. They  said 
they couldnt send the money back to the sender unless the third-party  recalled the payment. 
Mr R has since  lost contact with the third-party.
The investigator who looked at Mr Rs complaint thought Nationwide had acted  
appropriately. He said they were entitled to review  and block Mr Rs account due to their 
concerns. And he didnt  think  the evidence Mr R had sent them confirmed he was entitled  to 
the money  so he thought it was reasonable Nationwide held on to it. The investigator  also 
explained Nationwide were entitled to close Mr Rs accounts.
Mr R remained  unhappy, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained further below.
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr R to realise he couldnt  use his account.  
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position   especially as he says he 
owed money to friends. But a bank cant always guarantee  that funds in an account are 
readily available.  All banks and building societies in the UK are strictly regulated  and must  
take certain actions  in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations.  Banks and 
building societies are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
Ref: DRN19469102relationship. That sometimes  means  they need  to review and sometimes block customers 
accounts. Nationwide have said that Mr Rs accounts were reviewed and blocked to meet 
these legal requirements.
Nationwide have explained they reviewed  things because of a suspected  fraud concern 
following the transfer of a large payment from a third-party into Mr Rs Nationwide  account. I 
understand Mr R is frustrated because Nationwide dont agree the evidence Mr R sent is 
enough. Its important  banks and building societies complete thorough  investigations to 
ensure theyre  adhering to their legal and regulatory obligations. In Mr Rs case, I agree the 
evidence he supplied isnt adequate.  I say that because Mr R hasnt got any evidence  to 
show the sale of the watch, or any communication  between him and the third-party when 
negotiating the sale. He also hasnt  got a copy of the authentication  of the watch or proof of 
postage to the foreign  country. So, while I recognise this has left Mr R in a difficult position, 
Nationwide have a duty to protect  and they wouldnt be doing that if they released  the money 
without sufficient evidence. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong.
Nationwide decided to end their banking relationship with Mr R by closing his accounts. And 
theyre entitled to do that under the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate 
Nationwide are still holding on to the remaining money, and Mr R doesnt think  they should 
be. However, Im satisfied, based  on the evidence Ive seen, Nationwide  are taking the 
appropriate action.  Theyve explained theyre able to send the money  back to the third-party 
senders account,  if the third-party recalls  the payment. Its not possible for Nationwide  to 
send it back without a recall in the circumstances of this transaction.
Overall, I appreciate Mr R feels he has lost out on a lot of money  and I understand this has 
left him in a difficult position with some of his friends. But, based on the circumstances of this 
complaint, I cant fairly say Nationwide have done  anything wrong. Therefore, I wont  be 
asking them to do anything to put things  right for Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1946910