K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy with his self-build property insurer, QBE UK Limited. It has declined to fix 
damage to his home that Mr P believes was caused  by his neighbour.
background
Mr P took out cover with QBE in 2012 part way through building his home. In January 2014,  
with most of the exterior  and basement finished, Mr Ps neighbour began  work  to re-lay their 
drive, which abutted the exterior  wall of Mr Ps property.
Below ground there is a wall of piles which forms the structural  element of the basement.  In 
front of the pile wall is a concrete wall. On top of that (and slightly  below ground level)  is a 
slab that forms  the ground floor. An exterior concrete wall then sits on the floor slab and 
extends upwards.  This wall also forms part of the boundary of the plot on which Mr Ps 
home sits. Cracks were  noted in the visible part of the exterior wall and water began coming 
in. Mr P complained to his neighbour, their insurer  and their contractors insurer  but nothing  
got resolved. In July 2014 Mr P made a claim to QBE.
QBE instructed a loss adjuster who visited the property in August 2014.  He noted the 
specific build  type of the property  and the damage  to the wall which was made from a 
particular type of specialist concrete. He thought an expert opinion on the cause of damage  
was required.  An expert visited the property in November 2014  and again  in January 2015. 
The expert, which Ill call B, issued findings in March 2015, these were amended and 
re-issued in April with a third and final version  being produced in July 2015.
In June 2015 QBEs loss adjuster  had summarised  Bs findings in an email to Mr P, he said 
that whilst it had been found that the cracks  were  likely inherent to the nature of the build 
(not caused  by the neighbours work) there might be some  call for checking the 
watertightness of the wall. In July, following further  contact with Mr P the loss adjuster, with 
QBEs authorisation, disclosed Bs report to Mr P and said hed be in touch again soon in 
respect of policy liability but hoped the report would help explain the position.
In December 2015  Mr P got his own report from the structural engineer, which  Ill call F, 
that had been involved in building  the property. It responded to the technical points made 
by B. In February 2016 B responded to Fs findings.  In the exchange technical items within 
the reports were considered such as methodology of build as well as the relevance of 
codes and specifications referred to in the reports.
On 29 March 2016 QBE  issued its final response to Mr P. It said Bs report  showed  that the 
neighbours work didnt cause the cracking,  that it would always  have occurred. It said it 
didnt think anything in Fs report contradicted this. It went  on to explain a policy  exclusion 
for defective  materials  and workmanship  and said it was maintaining the decision to decline 
the claim.
Mr P challenged QBE and obtained  further  commentary from F. Fs responses again  were 
of a technical nature (as might be expected) and B replied in kind.  Around this time QBE put 
a number of options to Mr P about  how the dispute might be resolved, one of which  was to 
appoint an independent expert  to undertake a desktop analysis of the experts reports  to 
date in order to review the points  that had caused so much debate. Mr P didnt think  that 
type of analysis would achieve anything  but he did ask that a further  independent expert be 
appointed to assess  the damage and likely cause of it. QBE wasnt minded to agree to this.
Ref: DRN15850192In August  2016 Mr P reported further water  damage  in the basement  of his property. By this 
time the policy Mr P had held with QBE had ended. QBE did look at the further damage but 
felt Mr P should  probably  approach his current insurer. QBE re-stated this view in a further 
final response sent to Mr P in September 2016. In that letter it said that whilst it had 
considered the points  made following its March final response letter, as to its liability  for the 
crack damage and initial water ingress, it wasnt minded  to change  its view.
Around this time Mr P complained to this service.  He said he was unhappy about  QBEs 
handling and decline of his claim.  He said though  he was still hopeful that things between 
himself and QBE could be resolved without our involvement. But when this wasnt  possible 
our investigator considered the complaint that had been made.
Our investigator thought  that QBE had fairly suggested the involvement of an independent  
expert. She thought, because of the complex nature of the claim and the previous 
involvement of experts, it was a suggestion  wed likely have made if QBE hadnt.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and felt wed missed  the point that he had actually  wanted  an 
independent expert  to be involved but hed felt the basis of the remit for such involvement,  
as suggested  by QBE,  had been flawed. That was why he hadnt agreed to the suggestion. 
He said this wasnt just about crack damage and he wanted us to find in his favour and 
make an award that would mean he didnt have to have any further  involvement  with QBE 
at all.
I issued some provisional findings. I felt the wall was likely  unaffected structurally and any 
aesthetic impact from the cracks wasnt sufficient to warrant its re-build.  But I said some 
investigation was warranted regarding a damaged  damp proof  membrane. Also I said that 
QBE should resolve  the damaged contents items.
Mr P wasnt happy with what Id suggested and in his responses he sent a photo  which  he 
said showed that water  was still seeping through the cracks  in the wall (contrary to 
previous evidence that it was watertight  and, therefore, structurally  sound). When  
I reviewed the complaint I sent the new evidence to QBE and informed it that I felt that this 
warranted further investigation by appointment of an independent  expert to assess  what  
was going on and what was necessary, if anything to resolve  the problem. QBE agreed to 
carry out such an investigation prior to my reaching a final decision. It provided three 
experts for Mr P to choose  one from for it to appoint. However,  Mr P wasnt minded to do 
this. He referred to the policy cover and said this meant QBE  should just pay for the wall to 
be re-built. He said he wanted  me to make a decision  based on the current evidence.
Given Mr Ps refusal to engage in further investigations, I carried  out a further review of the 
complaint. And I issued  a new provisional decision that superseded my original findings. 
Both parties  have now responded and Ive considered whats  been said.  The findings  from 
my provisional decision are set out 0 and form part of this final decision (the original, 
superseded findings are not re-produced here and do not form part of this final decision). 
my provisional findings
the building
Initially I understood that the exterior wall extended  down into the ground, becoming the 
side-wall of the basement.  Having reviewed the plans and expert evidence available  I now 
Ref: DRN15850193think that is incorrect.  As reflected in my background above, the exterior wall does extend 
below ground  but the basement wall is a separate construction (although the material  used 
is the same). Directly under the slab below the area where  the exterior wall is situated is a 
pile wall. The basement wall then sits inside of that construction.
There is no mention in the plan details Ive seen of the building including any damp  proof 
membrane.
Both the ground  floor and basement  walls, as well as the floor slab are built from a 
specialist concrete. The experts reports explain  that the concrete contains an additive that 
provides waterproofing and is capable  of self-sealing against water ingress. The additive  
also reduces the risk of cracking. According  to F when  faced  with rain or saturated  ground 
the additive creates a water resisting barrier that reacts  as water attempts to ingress 
through the concrete matrix  or any cracks that may occur.
the policy
This is a self-build policy. Rather  than giving cover for the home it offers  indemnity for
damage caused  to the works.
Damage is defined as: damage  to material property.
The works are defined as: the temporary or permanent work  specified in any contract 
whether written or verbal.
In terms of the cover  offered it says:
To indemnify the insured for an amount not exceeding the limit of indemnity in the 
schedule against  all damage of whatsoever  nature
But it also says:
The Insurers shall not be bound to reinstate  exactly or completely but only as 
circumstances permit  and in reasonably sufficient manner, and shall not in any case  be 
bound to expend in respect of any one of the items of Property insured more than the Limit 
of Indemnity in respect of such item.
There are exclusions to the cover  offered. Of relevance here is that there will be no cover 
for property  which  is damaged due to a defect in its design, plan, specification, materials  or 
workmanship.
the damage and its cause
QBE declined the claim on the basis  of the defect exclusion referred to above. However, the 
expert reports dont in my view, justify that. In summary Bs report says that the vibrations 
opened up cracks that were always likely  to occur  but no defect in the design or 
workmanship is identified. And B also says it cant be sure that, but for the vibrations, these 
cracks would  always have occurred. F, on the other  hand, is clearer  that cracking to this 
extent is unlikely to have  ever occurred (no cracks were identified in the first two years  after 
completion of the wall and this limits the likelihood of cracking  occurring in future  years, the 
risk of which is reduced still further  due to the additive used  in the concrete).
Ref: DRN15850194Given the clear explanation  that F has set out, but particularly given that B says it cant  be 
sure what  may or may not have happened, Im satisfied that there  is likely damage  to the 
works covered by the policy. And that no relevant exclusion exists to remove QBEs liability 
for rectifying that  but for the vibrations the cracks are unlikely to have occurred.
what is required to indemnify Mr P.
The policy offers to pay an amount against damage. Although there is also reference  to the 
insurer reserving the right to choose to reinstate or repair. Importantly though  the policy 
also says that reinstatement will be subject to the prevalent circumstances and only in a 
reasonably sufficient manner.
It isnt currently clear what  state the wall is in. Immediately after the cracks occurred in 2014  
there was a water leak. Water apparently ingressed  through the exterior wall, traversed  
along the floor slab to some ducting  and seeped into the basement  below causing damage.  
But into 2015 and the early part of 2016  both experts were satisfied that the additive  mixed 
into the concrete  had done its job and sealed the cracks. On that basis it would seem that 
only the aesthetic impact  of the cracks  remained.
QBE felt that even  were it to accept the claim,  re-building wasnt  necessary. F thought  that 
structurally speaking there was no need to re-build but pointed out that the aesthetic issue 
needed consideration. It wasnt  clear if the cracks  could be repaired,  aesthetically speaking, 
and both experts noted that re-building was not without its problems either.
Mr P for his part has argued that the Concrete Society says that this type of build shouldnt 
have cracks  that detract  from its aesthetic  appeal.  I havent seen any direct evidence  from 
the Concrete Society as to its guidelines for buildings  of this nature. Nor have I seen any 
direct assessment by the Concrete Society  in respect of this specific  wall in question. 
However, Fs report makes the point that as an external structure the ground floor wall must  
be expected to weather and crack, and all [building] codes.only  dictate  that cracking  
must be controlled not to affect structural performance.
Its estimated that to re-build the wall it may cost around £400,000. It is also noted by both 
experts that this will be problematic, not least given that the neighbour is unlikely to 
cooperate with such work. The evidence suggests that, aesthetically  speaking, the wall can 
reasonably be expected  to have some  minor  cracks. Therefore, I think re-building the wall 
on the basis of its aesthetic appeal alone would go beyond what the policy  allows for in 
respect of reinstating in a reasonably  sufficient manner.
If, however, the cracks are still leaking then the situation requires review. I know  Mr P has 
reported further water ingress  causing  damage to the basement  since  the reports  in 2015 
and 2016. However, I havent seen any expert evidence that shows  what the cause of that 
likely was. And whilst Mr Ps recent photograph appears to show water leaking from one of 
the cracks, there hasnt  been any expert  assessment of that.
To conclude, on the basis of the photograph alone, that water  is still leaking through the 
walls means  writing off the previous expert  reports which are both very clear  about the 
additive used  and its properties.  That seems unreasonable to me. To my mind  the 
reasonable thing to do is to have an expert  review:
if the visible cracks  in the exterior wall are leaking; and, if so,
Ref: DRN15850195what needs  doing to fix them (repair or re-build?)  taking  into account the nature of the 
building as well as the material in question; and,
if its felt that the visible cracks arent  leaking or are but can be repaired (without
re-building), what is likely going on, in respect of cracking in the below ground section of 
the exterior wall, whether any work needs  doing  in this respect and, if so, what.
Within that process Mr Ps aesthetic  concerns can be considered  by someone with expert 
knowledge of the type of building, and repair versus re-build options can be more fully 
considered. QBE has already put forward three experts and Mr P is free to choose any one 
of these to carry out the investigations. The appointment of the expert will be made on a 
joint basis and QBE  will share  the appointment instructions with Mr P. In order  though for 
this assessment to bring the matter to an end both parties will be bound  by the findings of 
the expert.  QBE, if Mr P accepts the experts  findings, will either need to carry out the work 
identified as necessary,  or offer a cash settlement to allow Mr P to carry out the work.
I know  Mr P is reluctant  to engage with QBE any further and I know  this has been going on 
for a long time, so I can understand his reluctance. But whilst I think  that Mr P has a valid 
claim under this policy Im satisfied  that, on the basis of the evidence Ive seen here, it 
would be unfair  and unreasonable for me to make QBE pay for the wall to be re-built.  Im 
satisfied that the right, fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is, as set out above, 
for an independent expert to consider the situation  and QBE  to make settlement on the 
basis of any findings  made. That, though, will be subject to the award  limits that apply to 
this service and that Mr P has been informed about previously.
If my view on this doesnt change then Ill likely issue my final decision on this basis.  Mr P 
isnt obliged to accept  my final decision.  But if he should change his mind hell still have the 
chance to benefit  from my award (as long as he accepts the final decision within the 
deadline set).
damp proof membrane
Fs report  from 2015 states  that when Mr Ps neighbour dug up their drive  the damp  proof 
membrane behind the ground floor wall (against the neighbours drive) was damaged. It 
seems that neither QBE nor B ever noticed  this and initially  it seemed to me that this 
damage might have been relevant to the later water ingress which occurred  (meaning  
QBEs oversight might have prejudiced  Mr P).
However, I note that the plans for the build dont include any mention of the installation  of a 
membrane. And I also think that such would be unnecessary given what F has said about 
the additive used  even  for the below  ground  portion  of the wall. If a membrane had been  
added to the build at some stage  or was always planned and just not shown on the 
drawings Ive seen   Im still not convinced that it being damaged would likely have resulted 
in damage to the property. In most buildings I see, that are the subject of the complaints
I consider, a membrane is crucial for achieving watertightness below ground level.  
However, Fs report clearly states that this is achieved  here by the additive  within  the 
concrete. So in this case  it would seem  that the membrane, if part of Mr Ps build, was only 
ever put in as a safeguard, that the absence  of or damage to this wouldnt have meant 
water ingress was likely.
damaged contents
Ref: DRN15850196If the membrane damage had been  crucial to the watertightness,  and given it had been 
overlooked by QBE,  it might have been possible to say that QBE was responsible for the 
later damage that occurred to Mr Ps contents stored in the basement.  Regardless of 
whether the cracks had sealed or not. However,  given what  Ive said above, I dont think 
this is the case.
Furthermore, I asked Mr P why, given the water ingress that had occurred in 2012, had he 
stored lots of expensive  belongings  in the basement. Mr P explained that he had never 
moved into the property  but the basement was always  designed  with the intention of it 
storing most  personal belongings.  Then, with his home being  marketed for sale, and 
because B had told him there  was unlikely to be further water ingress, he moved  items into 
the basement.
Whilst I accept that B was of the view that further  water ingress was unlikely, I think  F 
shared this view.  And it expressed  its view on the properties of the additive  in much more  
detail than B did, and in a report directed to Mr Ps wife. So if Mr P was misled into 
accepting the basement  was a safe storage point when this was in fact not the case, I dont  
believe that B (and thus QBE) were the real or only proponents  of that incorrect advice.
claim handling
It was identified  early on, following notification  of the claim by Mr P in July 2014, by QBEs 
loss adjuster that this was a complex  claim that required expert input. However,  once QBE 
released its experts findings to Mr P that necessitated him getting his own expert involved. 
It wasnt until 2016 that QBE issued its first final response to Mr P. That is much longer than 
I usually see but, in the circumstances  here,  I dont  think QBE  could  reasonably have acted 
any quicker.
I know  that Bs initial draft report was changed at QBEs request and that this has upset and 
frustrated Mr P. However, I can see that the removed  sections  related  to repair  
considerations. QBE  explained that whilst B had chosen to comment on this, that issue 
wasnt part of the remit it had been given. I can understand QBE asking for an amendment 
in this respect to be made.  I appreciate  it frustrated  Mr P but as Im satisfied QBE's  actions 
were reasonable I cant fairly require it to compensate him in this respect.
I know  QBEs suggestion of appointing  an independent expert to assess  the existing expert 
opinions raised  concerns  for Mr P. However, it is possible in my experience to have a third 
expert comment on the validity of others findings. And I can see why, given  the nature of 
the correspondence and the issues being  debated between  the experts, QBE thought this 
was a good way forward. I think its offer in this respect was a fair and reasonable one.
responses to my provisional  decision
QBE said it agreed to my findings. Mr P was disappointed and frustrated by them. In 
summary Mr P said:
My findings didnt take everything into account,  or all the accumulative circumstances.
I clearly didnt understand or take into account the overall  extent of what  had happened 
to the house. 
Ref: DRN15850197Six long cracks above the ground  are not minor and, given the policy  wording that 
provides indemnity against damage, and the advice of the concrete society,  the wall 
should be re-built.
My findings and award  effectively required him to start back  at the beginning.
He cant face further delay  and frustration that would inevitably occur in continuing to 
deal with QBE.
He said someone  new would likely not have the required knowledge or be given a clear 
enough brief. And B hadnt acted impartially before so there was no likelihood of 
anything different happening this time around.
His engineer feels  frustrated by having  to explain and/or defend himself and his work.
He is unclear how I can excuse the extent of time and delay by QBE as being  
acceptable.
It is clear to him that he will not find any redress through this service. 
It is unlikely hell accept my final decision.
Mr P also asked that the internal damage in the basement was considered. He said it was 
still unclear how water  penetrated down there and the extent to which damage had been 
cased to the fixtures, fittings  and finishes of the basement,  including  the electrical  
installation. I asked  Mr P for more  evidence and, having considered the situation told both 
that I felt consideration of this aspect  should be included within  the scope of the 
independent inspection. Both QBE  and Mr P asked  for a final decision to be issued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this claim  has taken a long time and that Mr P feels QBE has failed him time and 
again. But even  if I agreed that was the case,  it wouldnt give me grounds for making  it 
re-build  Mr Ps wall. Especially not in light of the expert evidence  available.
I have considered everything  that has happened. The damage to the exterior wall is at the 
heart of the situation. 
I know Mr P doesnt view the cracks as minor, and I accept they are long. However, they are 
also narrow. And the expert opinion from Mr Ps engineer is that the wall should be expected 
to crack, that the cracks are within the tolerances allowed for by the relevant British  
Standards (not exceeding 0.3mm) and that, at the time of his report, the cracks didnt appear  
to have compromised the structure of the wall because the additive in the concrete had 
made it watertight.  What  Mr P says about  what the concrete society says doesnt detract 
from that. Im still satisfied that re-building the wall would go beyond the limits the policy  sets 
in respect of QBEs liability  for indemnifying Mr P.
But the finding that the structure isnt compromised is now in doubt because  of the evidence 
Mr P supplied regarding  further water  ingress.  And my award takes  that into account; it 
doesnt require  Mr P to start at the beginning again. Previously there  were  views from 
engineers on opposing  sides largely focussing  on the cause of the cracking  and whether it 
was covered by the policy; B for QBE and F for Mr P. Were  beyond that now as Im 
satisfied, as explained provisionally,  that the policy does offer cover to Mr P in this instance. 
The reason  for the appointment of an independent is to determine  what  QBE  needs to do 
now to resolve the damage.
Ref: DRN15850198My award requires an independent  expert  to be appointed and for the instruction 
appointment for that engineer to be shared. So Mr P will be involved in the selection  
process. And the assessment  isnt to be undertaken on the same basis as B carried  out its 
work before  which was for QBE. The independent  expert will also be able to appoint any 
other specialists he feels  are necessary. Whilst I realise that further deliberation over the 
damage will be frustrating for Mr P, I am satisfied that its necessary. 
I understand that Mr Ps engineer is reluctant to have any further involvement. But I havent  
criticised his work or asked him to defend anything.  In fact I took on board the report he 
produced and found it was more persuasive  than that produced by QBEs  expert.
This claim  was always a technical  one. And technical claims do take time. A lot of work and 
consideration went into QBEs experts technical  report, so I think the time taken for issuing it 
was reasonable.  It was then nine months before  QBE  issued its first final response on the 
claim. And as I said provisionally that is longer  than I see in most cases. But I also said that 
in the circumstances here, I didnt think QBE could reasonably have acted quicker.  Im 
mindful now, as I was then, that Mr Ps experts report wasnt  issued until January 2016 and 
I think it was necessary for QBE to wait for that and take its findings into consideration 
before forming its final response  (which  was issued only about  ten weeks later).  
All that being  said, Im satisfied, given what Ive seen, that the internal damage in the 
basement should be considered by the expert.  The fixtures,  fittings  and finishes of the 
basement appear to be part of the works, as covered  by the policy.  So if the external crack  
damage, which occurred during the course  of cover  provided by QBE didnt seal itself and 
instead allowed  water  ingress to occur at a later date then its likely reasonable to attach the 
latter damage to the initial  cause of loss  the neighbours work in 2014. And Ive already 
said the expert should consider if the cracks are leaking. So it makes sense to factor in the 
damage in the basement as part of that. Only once a determination has been made on the 
above and below ground part of the exterior wall (but not the basement  wall which is 
separate and doesnt form part of my decision), can a better idea be gained  as to whether 
water damage was likely  caused  by the initial damage causing the wall to no longer be 
watertight. Therefore, the experts remit will be to determine:
if the visible cracks  in the exterior wall are leaking, or have likely been  leaking at any time 
since 2014;  and, if so,
what needs  doing to fix them (repair  or re-build?) taking into account the nature of the 
building as well as the material in question; and,
if its felt that the visible cracks arent leaking or are but can be repaired (without 
re-building),  what is likely going  on, in respect  of cracking  in the below ground section of 
the exterior  wall, whether any work needs doing in this respect and, if so, what; and
if its felt that the cracks have been  leaking, is the internal damage suffered in the 
basement in 2016 likely to have been  caused  by water leaking through the cracks which 
occurred originally  in 2014; and,
if the 2016 internal damage  did likely  stem from the 2014  crack damage, what  is needed  
to reinstate the property in this respect?
Should the expert be unable to conclude that the 2016 damage did likely stem from crack 
damage originally occurring in 2014,  then QBE wont have to make any settlement  for that 
damage. I know Mr P feels  QBE  is responsible regardless.  However,  in the run up to 2016, 
when significant  and obvious  damage  was caused in the basement,  both experts  believed  
the wall was watertight.  They believed that on the basis of the nature of the wall. Therefore, 
it doesnt matter that, at that time, that no testing  of examination of the below ground part of 
Ref: DRN15850199the wall had taken  place. I couldnt reasonably have expected QBE to carry out further 
assessments, when even  Mr Ps engineers  view was that the wall was watertight.
I know Mr P wanted to have his engineer  make  further considerations on this aspect first. 
But I wasnt minded  to think it would be fair to make QBE pay for that. I explained that it 
wouldnt move  the complaint on any further because QBE  would have chance to challenge it 
and all that would likely  be achieved was adding a further point of contention to the 
independent experts consideration (which  is what Im saying should occur  anyway).   
It is regrettable that Mr P is dissatisfied with the redress I feel is fairly  and reasonably due. 
I have considered his responses but Im not minded to change my mind. These findings, 
along with the provisional findings copied above,  now form part of this final decision. 
I understand why Mr P might not want to accept my decision and it is up to him whether he 
does so or not. As this is a hugely  important  issue  for Mr P and a technically complex one, it 
may be that Mr P will want to seek further advice before making that decision. Therefore, 
I have extended  the normal deadline  for responding to a final decision from four weeks to 
eight. If Mr P does decide he wants to accept my decision, as long as he tells us so within 
eight weeks of the date of issue  of this document, QBE will be bound  to follow  the award Ive 
made. It will not be bound to follow my recommendation but may choose to do so. If it 
doesnt and Mr P has accepted my decision then he may not be able to chase QBE in 
respect of anything outstanding beyond my award.   
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint as Im satisfied  that QBE UK Limited wrongly declined Mr Ps claim.
award
I require QBE UK Limited to appoint a suitably  qualified  expert  to assess the problem at 
Mr Ps home as set out above. And QBE UK Limited  will have to either carry out any work 
the expert finds necessary or make a cash settlement  to Mr P to allow him to do the work. 
Up to the value  of our limit of £150,000.
recommendation
In so far as any costs  for the assessment and/or work found to be necessary by the expert  
exceed our limit of £150,000, I recommend that QBE UK Limited meets  these costs.
My recommendation is not part of my decision or award. It is up to QBE UK Limited,  even if 
Mr P accepts my final decision,  whether  or not to follow  my recommendation. If it chooses 
not to and Mr P has accepted my final decision,  it is unlikely  that hell be able to go to court  
in respect of any recommendation  or part thereof that isnt honoured. Mr P may want  to take 
legal advice before  deciding  whether or not to accept my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1585019