K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) managed  his 
claim for creaking of the upper floors  of his home, and with its communication throughout his 
claim. 
background
Mr D bought a new build  property which was covered by an NHBC Buildmark  policy. Mr D 
reported problems  with his property which the builder was initially  responsible  for under the 
builders warranty section.  But, in line with the NHBC guarantee section, NHBC took over 
responsibility for the claim from the builder  when they failed in their reasonable opportunity 
to get the work done. 
There is extensive background to this complaint which I wont  revisit in detail. The key points 
are that since NHBC took over the claim there have been several periods of avoidable delay 
caused by NHBC and its agents.  There have also been periods of poor communication,  
where Mr D has chased NHBC unsuccessfully for updates.
NHBC recognises that the level of service it has provided hasnt always been good  enough.  
It has paid Mr D £500 for delays and service issues between  December 2017  and 
February 2018 and £250  for delays  and issues between November 2018 and 
February 2019. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and thought  those amounts were  fair to reflect 
the delays and frustration caused  during  those  periods. But she also thought NHBC should 
pay an additional £250 for delays  between February  2018  and October 2018. She also 
recommended that NHBC should  ensure the tenders  for the remedial work were  returned 
within one month and that NHBC should arrange suitable  alternative accommodation for 
Mr D and his family  while the works were carried out. 
Both Mr D and NHBC agreed that the additional  compensation  was fair. But NHBC said it 
couldnt commit to the timescales recommended by our investigator  as elements were 
outside its control. Mr D also raised some  concerns with the scope of works that NHBC had 
prepared. So because no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
Since my involvement further issues have arisen  with the complaint. Mr D raised concerns 
with the scope of works and encountered further  problems communicating with NHBC. 
There were also problems  with arranging alternative  accommodation for Mr D and his family. 
These issues resulted  in Mr Ds complaint being  handled by senior managers within  NHBC.  
In June 2019 NHBC wrote to Mr D apologising for the continued  poor service and offering a 
further £500 compensation  which he accepted and which  has been paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN19109692It isnt in dispute that things have gone wrong  in the handling of Mr Ds claim and his 
subsequent complaints. NHBC accepts things havent happened  as they should have done 
and that Mr D has been impacted as a result. NHBC has so far paid Mr D £1,250 to 
compensate for most of these issues, and it agrees that it should  pay a further  £250  in line 
with our investigators recommendation.
As I understand it, Mr D and his family are now happy with the scope of repair  works for their 
home and are living in alternative accommodation while  the works are completed. NHBC has 
reimbursed Mr D for some expenses he has incurred and paid for three months worth of 
further expenses  related  to the alternative  accommodation. NHBC agrees that if Mr D and 
his family  are required to be in the alternative accommodation for longer, further payments to 
cover those expenses will be made.
NHBC has also committed to offering Mr D a certain  level of customer service moving 
forward, to recognise the issues  hes experienced throughout his claim. It has provided a 
single point of contact for him to communicate with and that person has committed to 
responding to any communications  within five working days  which  is significantly shorter 
than required by its customer charter.
Its clear from everything thats  happened  that Mr D and his family have suffered significant  
distress and inconvenience as a result  of NHBCs errors. But its also clear  that NHBC has 
fully accepted this and has taken  steps  to rectify the issues and to compensate Mr D for the 
trouble and upset  he has suffered as a result.
Taking everything into account  I think NHBCs offer to consider further reasonable expenses 
as they become due, communicate  with Mr D through a single point of contact in line with 
the timescales it has committed to, and pay Mr D a further £250 compensation is a fair way 
to resolve his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
National House-Building Council should:
pay Mr D a further £250 for the trouble and upset it has caused him
communicate with Mr D in line with the timescales it has committed  to moving 
forward
consider further  payments for reasonable alternative accommodation expenses 
covered under the Buildmark  policy if Mr D is required to remain  in alternative 
accommodation for longer than the three  months already paid for
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19109693
Ref: DRN1910969