K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999 in connection with a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G didnt agree  with the adjudicators  
conclusions so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because the box on the credit application  form that Mrs G 
completed was ticked to show that she wanted  the cover. I think the wording on the 
form was clear  enough for Mrs G to realise  that she had a choice. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to check whether she had other ways to cover  her 
repayments, such as sick pay from her employer. But RBS did have to make sure 
Mrs G got the information she needed  to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mrs G off taking  out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN14670602my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back  to Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1467060