K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a credit card in 1999. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy, which provided cover if she couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no limited documents  available  from 
the time of the sale, as is the case here.  And the sale happened over 19 years ago, so Im 
not surprised that neither HSBC nor Mrs R has been  able to provide much of the specific  
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Ive noted the application  form which suggests that Mrs R had to tick a box to get the cover  
but its very hard to read. Ive not seen  anything that clearly shows HSBC didnt make Mrs R 
aware the PPI was optional or failed  to get her consent. So, considering how long ago the 
sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint 
on this point. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case,  I think 
its more likely that HSBC  wouldve  made  her aware  that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it, even  though she may not remember  that now, many years later. 
There is no evidence of any direct  interaction between Mrs R and HSBC from the time of the 
sale. So it seems unlikely  that any advice was given  to Mrs R. However,  Mrs R told us that 
she couldnt remember if advice was given. If it provided advice, HSBC had to sell Mrs R 
something that was suitable for her. I dont  need  to make a firm finding on whether advice 
was given because  I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
I say this because  looking at Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, if advice was given, the PPI 
seems to have been right for her. For example Mrs R was eligible for the policy and wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.  And she seems  to have had 
a need for the cover. Mrs R told us her sick pay was probably good initially but that it most 
likely dropped significantly after six months  and that she had no other means she could have 
relied on in that circumstance, such that she may have had to rely on her partner helping her 
to pay her credit card. This policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Mrs R was too ill to 
Ref: DRN18356172work or if she lost her job. So, as this would have paid out in addition to Mrs Rs sick pay and 
would have reduced her reliance on whatever help her partner may have been  able to 
provide her at that time, I think she couldve found this cover  useful.
The policy cost for the benefit was comparable to other  policies offering similar benefits  at 
the time.  And Ive not seen anything to suggest  it was unaffordable.
HSBC also had to give Mrs R clear  information about the policy  so she could make  an 
informed choice about buying  it. Its possible that HSBC couldve done  more to provide  clear 
information about aspects of the policy. But, for the same reasons that I dont  think the policy  
was unsuitable  for Mrs R, I dont think clearer information wouldve put Mrs R off buying the 
policy. Overall,  I think Mrs R would still have taken  the policy out if shed been properly 
advised and informed. So, she hasnt lost out due to anything  HSBC did wrong.  
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, but I hope that the explanation is helpful. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But HSBC  has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mrs R any extra interest  Mrs R paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs R the difference between  
what Mrs R owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mrs R 8%* simple  
interest if Mrs R paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But HSBC  Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it has not already done so. If it has already 
paid that amount there is no further  amount to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN18356173Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1835617