K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  about three  instalment loans that she took out with Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL), which she said were unaffordable.
background
Miss E was given three instalment loans by SL from March 2015 to July 2016. A summary of 
the loans taken out by Miss E is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 12/3/15 31/7/15 £100 13 weekly repayments of  
£10.77 (around £46.67 per 
month)
2. 2/8/15 Unpaid? £110 17 weekly repayments of 
£9.66 (around £41.86  per 
month)
3. 17/7/16 Unpaid? £150 13 weekly repayments of 
£13.81 (around £59.84 per 
month)
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Miss E for details 
of her income and expenditure.  SL also applied extra  safeguards and buffers  to Miss Es 
declared expenses  to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit  check.  
our adjudicators findings
The adjudicator recommended that Loan 3 should  be upheld. 
SL disagreed and said that the adjudicator hadnt considered the consumers individual 
circumstances, but had only considered the number of loans. SL said that it didnt feel that 
sustained or sequential borrowing was irresponsible or conclusive that Miss E was reliant  on 
its loans. SL said that it considered sustainability  when  it completed the initial  income and 
expenses checks.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss E 
and to SL on 20 September  2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  SL lent to Miss E the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  Those checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN10258042But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Miss E could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on that basis  might be an indication  a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  that 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Es complaint.
I could see that SL had made  a number of checks before  it lent to Miss E. It had asked her 
for details  of her income and expenditure. Miss E had declared her monthly  income as £980 
and her expenditure as £150 before Loan 1, her income as £1,300 with expenditure of £470  
before Loan 2, and income  of £1,300  and expenditure of £850 before Loan 3. And SL had 
increased Miss Es declared expenditure in its assessments of Loans  1 to 3 to reflect what it 
had seen in its credit checks and internal models.  
Id also noted  that SL had checked Miss Es credit file before agreeing to the loans. SL had 
provided this service with a summary of its credit checks. I could see that there were three 
active credit  accounts with payments in arrears in the previous six months before Loan 2 and 
two accounts  in arrears  in the previous six months before Loan  3. There were  no other 
payday loans  shown in the previous  three months  before each of the loans. Other wise,  I 
couldnt see any adverse information  on SLs credit checks that I thought should have 
caused additional concerns to SL. Miss E hadnt  provided this service with a copy of her 
credit report,  although this had been  requested in September 2018. So I wasnt  aware of any 
adverse information  on Miss Es credit  report that I thought should have caused additional 
concerns to SL.
Ref: DRN10258043I could see that Loan  1 was for £100  repayable by 13 weekly  repayments of £10.77. SLs 
credit check  showed that Miss E had no active  accounts which were in arrears.  SL said that 
Miss E had a disposable income of £404.02 before Loan 1 after its safeguards and buffers  
had been applied to Miss Es expenses. 
On balance, I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were  
proportionate. The repayments that Miss E needed  to make on Loan 1 were  relatively  
modest compared to the income that she declared  to SL. And I didnt think  the repayments 
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Miss E financial difficulty.
So given Miss Es repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about  her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for SL to 
have asked her for the amount of information  that would have been  needed  to show the 
lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss E provided or the information SL shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  she was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to have  given Loan 1 to Miss E.
But I could see from SLs contact notes that Miss E had missed repayments on Loan 1 in 
May and June 2015 and she had repaid the loan around seven weeks after the due date on 
31 July 2015.  SLs contact notes  showed  Miss E had said that these were missed for various 
reasons. Miss E had said that she couldnt commit to contractual  payments due to the need 
to check with her bank before payments were made. On another  occasion  Miss E had said 
that another  company was taking funds from her account. And at another time she said that 
shed had fraud on her account and funds had gone  missing. Miss E had then set up a 
repayment arrangement  to repay  some of the arrears. I thought  that these missed 
repayments and the various  causes might have  suggested that Miss E was facing  financial  
problems and should have caused some concerns to SL about Miss Es finances. 
Miss E had then applied  for Loan  2 two days after Loan 1 had been repaid. The loan amount 
was slightly higher and the repayments were  to be made over a longer  period. But the 
weekly repayments were  around a pound less. 
SLs credit check  before Loan 2 showed that there were three active  credit accounts  with 
payments in arrears  in the previous six months.  I could  also see that SL had added an 
additional amount of around £365  of safeguards to Miss Es declared expenses. So it was 
aware that Miss E wasnt declaring all her commitments.
I thought it was clear  from Miss Es repayment  history for Loan 1 that shed had various 
difficulties making the repayments and shed needed to set up a repayment arrangement.  
The loan was repaid around seven weeks late. Loan  2 was taken out just two days after 
Loan 1 was repaid. The loan amount and repayment term had increased. I thought  that 
should have suggested to SL that it was likely Miss E had to borrow  further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous  loan was leaving in her finances. As Miss E had already had 
difficulties repaying  her previous loan, I thought this should have suggested  that it was less 
likely that shed be able to sustainably repay Loan 2. And SL was also aware from its credit 
check that Miss E had recent  arrears  on other  credit  accounts. 
Ref: DRN10258044I appreciated that SL had asked Miss E for information about  her income and expenditure 
and had applied  safeguards and buffers  to Miss Es expenses. But I thought that Miss Es 
poor repayment history  on Loan 1 and the recent  arrears on three  of her other credit 
accounts should have caused  SL to carefully  consider  whether it was likely that Miss E 
would be able to meet her repayments for Loan  2 in a sustainable manner. Id seen no 
evidence that SL performed that assessment. And I thought SL should  have decided that it 
was unlikely that Miss E would be able to sustainably meet her repayments. So I didnt think  
SL should  have given Miss E loan 2.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of SLs lending history with Miss E, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so SL should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Es case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 3. I said this because:
Miss E had applied  for Loan 3 whilst  she still had Loan 2 outstanding. Loan  2 was 
£162.22 in arrears and the loan balance had been written  off. The arrears were 
transferred to a debt collection  agency in January 2016.  Miss E had made  two 
payments of a pound in February  2016  but no more since  then. This suggested that 
Miss E was having serious difficulties managing  her money.
Miss E had taken  out a loan of £100  16 months  previously and she then asked for a 
loan of £150 without there having  been  any real break in her borrowing. She hadnt 
made any inroads  into her debt over that time and had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to SL over an extended  period. 
I thought that Miss E lost out because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the length of time that Miss E had been  taking out short term loans  was likely to have 
had negative implications on Miss Es ability to access mainstream credit and so had 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
Id noted that SL had said that the adjudicator hadnt  considered  Miss Es individual  
circumstances. But I had considered these in some detail. I thought it was clear  that Miss E 
had serious difficulties managing her money and that sustained borrowing was irresponsible  
in her circumstances.
Id noted that SL had said that sustainability was considered  when it completed  its income  
and expenses checks. But SL was required to establish whether Miss E could sustainably  
repay her loans  not just whether the loan repayments were  affordable  on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. And SL knew from previous decisions  (as well as what was set out on 
our website) that there were cases where this service considered  the overall lending pattern 
and not just the affordability of each  loan. 
Ref: DRN10258045When a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most likely 
that the loans  werent being  used  for their intended  purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As SL knew,  the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost lending 
firms that a high volume of relending..might  be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns. And I thought  that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Miss E or SL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. Id said that my redress was drafted on the basis 
that Loans 2 and 3 hadnt  been repaid and that it would be helpful  if SL could provide up to 
date information  on the balances of those loans in its response  to my provisional decision.
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss E paid on Loans 2 and 3 and pay 8% simple  
interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
2.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 2 from Miss Es credit file; and
3.Remove all entries about Loan 3 from Miss Es credit file once it had been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Miss E 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
I noted that Miss E hadnt repaid Loans  2 and 3 to SL. Those debts had been sold to a third 
party. I didnt know whether Miss E had repaid any of those debts to the third party. 
Id said that it seemed  reasonable  that if Miss E still owed some  of the capital shed 
borrowed that the refund due to her should  be used to reduce that debt. But to do so SL 
must first take the debts  back into its own books and reduce them  to reflect  just the capital 
that Miss E borrowed less any repayments she had made. Id said that if SL was unable, or 
unwilling, to do this it must ensure that its interest and charges, and any other interest and 
charges added by the third party, were refunded to Miss E so she could choose whether to 
use the compensation to settle  her debt directly. 
Miss E responded to my provisional decision by sending this service two documents she 
referred to as statements from the lender.
SL responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted my proposals. It also 
referred to a total amount  outstanding after it had written off the interest on Loans  2 and 3.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that the documents Miss E sent to this service were letters  referring to the amount of 
the arrears on each of the loans as at August  and September 2019 respectively. These 
confirm that the loans  havent been  repaid but dont otherwise affect my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN10258046And given  that SL has given me nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to depart  from 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part of the 
complaint and require SL to pay Miss E some  compensation  as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Miss E paid on Loans 2 and 3 and pay 8% simple      
interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
2. Remove all adverse  entries about  Loan  2 from Miss Es credit file; and
3. Remove all entries about Loan  3 from Miss Es credit file once  it had been  repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Miss E 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
I note that Miss E hadnt repaid Loans 2 and 3 to SL. Those  debts have been sold to a third 
party. It seems  reasonable that if Miss E still owes some of the capital shed borrowed that 
the refund  due to her should  be used to reduce that debt. But to do so SL must  first take the 
debts back into its own books and reduce  them to reflect just the capital that Miss E 
borrowed less any repayments she has made.  If SL is unable,  or unwilling, to do this it must  
ensure that its interest and charges, and any other interest and charges added  by the third 
party, are refunded to Miss E so she can choose  whether to use the compensation to settle 
her debt directly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1025804