K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent money  to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr R entered into seven loans with Lending  Stream between  February 2012 and 
November 2017.  
Loan Date Amount Repaid
1 19 Feb 2012 £235 22 Feb 2012
2 24 Jun 2013 £215 19 Jul 2013
3 30 Jun 2013 £150 19 Jul 2013
4 28 Jul 2013 £150 21 Mar 2014
5 5 Jul 2015 £400 23 Jul 2016
6 14 Jul 2015 £280 23 Jul 2016
7 1 Nov 2017 £300 outstanding
Mr R says that the loans  shouldnt  have  been provided to him as he couldnt afford the 
repayments. At the time of the loans he says he had defaults on his credit file and was 
making use of other short term loan providers.
Lending Stream says that adequate checks were carried out before the loans  were  provided 
and based on these the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He noted that there were gaps in Mr Rs lending 
and thought the loans  fell into four different lending chains. Based on the information  
provided he didnt  think that further  checks were required or that Lending Stream should 
have been reasonably aware that the loans werent  sustainably affordable.
Mr R didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He said that at the time of the loans he had loans 
from other short term loan providers and also credit card debts. He didnt think adequate 
checks were carried  out before the loans were  provided and noted  that he had a complaint 
against a different loan provider upheld.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr R has noted that he had a different complaint upheld. My role is to consider each case 
based on its individual merits. So while a different complaint may have been upheld  I need to 
be satisfied that in this case  Lending Stream acted irresponsibly by providing the loans.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN11148252the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr R could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early  loans in this case were provided  before CONC.  At that time the relevant  guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make  a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R took out seven loans but there  were  significant gaps in his borrowing. The first loan 
was taken out in February 2012  and repaid  a few days later.  He didnt take out another  loan 
until more than a year later in June 2013.  He then took out three loans in close  succession 
before again having a break in his borrowing of over a year.  Two loans were  then taken out 
in July 2015 and then there was a break  before the final loan was taken  out in November  
2017.
Given the gaps  in the lending I agree with our adjudicator that the loans  should  be split into 
four lending chains.
Ref: DRN11148253The first lending chain  contains just the first loan.  Before  this was provided  information about 
Mr Rs income  and expenditure was gathered and I think this was sufficient. Given this 
suggested the repayment were affordable find it reasonable this loan was provided. I note 
the loan was repaid within  a few days.
The second  lending chain  contains  loans two to four. Before  the loans were provided  
information about Mr Rs income and expenses  was gathered. I can see Mr Rs recorded 
expenses were low during this period (much lower  than recorded for the previous and 
subsequent loans).  However, given the repayment  amount compared to Mr Rs income I 
think the checks carried out before the loans  were provided were  reasonable.
I note that loan three was taken out before  loan two was repaid but even so, based on the 
combined repayment amounts I think the checks were reasonable at this stage, given these 
were the first two loans  in the lending chain. Both loans were repaid  before loan four was 
provided and again  I find the checks for loan four were sufficient.
I have looked  at the credit information gathered at this time and can see that this did include 
some adverse credit data in regard to defaults  and delinquent accounts. However I dont  find 
that this was sufficient  to mean that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided the loans 
based on the other information it had. Overall,  I do not find that I have enough to say that the 
loans in the second lending chain shouldnt have been provided.
Loan four wasnt  repaid until March 2014,  but there was then a gap of over a year between 
loan four being repaid  and loan five being provided.  Mr Rs reported income had increased 
by loan five, although I note his expenses had also increased. As loan five was the first in a 
new lending  chain  I think the checks carried out at this stage  and before loan six was 
provided were reasonable. These were the first two loans in a new lending chain and the 
repayment amounts  were  relatively small compared  to Mr Rs income.  As the information  
gathered didnt raise  any concerns about  affordability I dont think it was unreasonable that 
the loans were provided.
Mr R repaid loans five and six in July 2016 then didnt take out another loan until 
November 2017.  Again, as this was the first loan in a new lending chain, I think the checks  
carried out were reasonable and I dont find that I have enough to say this loan shouldnt  
have been provided.
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  evidence to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN11148254my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1114825