K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the management and administration  of his credit card account 
(account) by MBNA  Limited (MBNA).  In particular Mr W complains about the information 
made available to him via his mobile phone banking app (phone app)  by MBNA.
background
In November 2017 Mr W opened an account  with MBNA.
In November 2017 Mr W made a balance transfer to his account of £2,000. This transfer was 
subject to a transfer  fee of £11 with interest  being  charged on the same at 0% for 32 months.
Between December  2017 and April 2018 Mr W made purchases (after two refunds) totalling 
£1,303.
Between January 2018 and December 2018 Mr W was charged  £71.59  interest on the 
above purchases.
In December 2018 Mr W paid £2,459.65  to his account, bringing the balance of it to £29.95 
in credit.
Mr W complains that the interest  charges debited to his account  (for the various purchases 
he had made) werent brought adequately to his attention by MBNA until November 2018  
when he received his first annual statement of account. And because  of this MBNA should 
refund him the interest debited of £71.59. Mr W says he managed his account, during  the 
period in question, by checking  information supplied to him via his phone app by MBNA.
MBNA considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said all interest 
debited to Mr Ws account was done so correctly  and that he could and should have been 
aware of the same  each month.
Mr Ws complaint  was considered by one of our investigators  who concluded that MBNA had 
done nothing wrong and because of this it need  make no refund to Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint has been  passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr W has very strong feelings about  this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr W will not take the fact that my findings  focus  on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Ref: DRN12448112Ive considered Mr Ws account terms and conditions, which  Mr W doesnt dispute he agreed 
to be bound by. And having done so, Im satisfied that these allow  MBNA to debit purchase 
interest to Mr Ws account.
Ive also considered the actual purchase  interest debited to Mr Ws account. And having 
done so Im satisfied  that this has been calculated correctly at £71.59.
However I accept that Mr W isnt disputing MBNAs  right under his account  terms and 
conditions to debit  the purchase  interest  that it did, but rather that it failed  to bring  these 
charges to his attention, in a fair and clear manner, on a monthly basis.
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted Im satisfied that Mr W elected to not 
receive statements  by post, but to have access to the same  via online banking,  and that he 
was sent an email each  month to confirm that his latest statement was available to view.
I also note that Mr Ws account terms and conditions state:
Each month that there is activity on your account we will supply you with a statement. It will 
show all the amounts we have  added to your account since  your last statement.
Your statement will usually be created around the same time each month. You are 
responsible for ensuring that you access and check your statement each  monthIf you 
cannot access your statement, you can call us using the number in the contact details 
section belowYou must tell us as soon  as you realise that:
you have not received  a statement when you expect one;
you cannot access your statement;
Given the above I think MBNA made  it sufficiently clear to Mr W that he was required to 
check his statement each  month. Im also satisfied  that had he done so he would have been 
aware, on a monthly  basis, precisely  what MBNA had debited  to his account,  and what it 
might debit the following month,  by way of purchase interest. 
So given what I say above Im satisfied that Mr W being  unaware as to what  purchase 
interest was being  debited  to his account each month, and what might be debited the 
following month, wasnt as a result of what MBNA  did, or didnt provide, by way of account 
information on Mr Ws phone app. Instead  it was as a result of his decision not to check his 
statements as was required of him under his account terms and conditions. 
So taking everything into account Im not persuaded that MBNA has done  anything wrong in 
this case or that it needs to pay Mr W anything by way of compensation.
Ref: DRN12448113my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision,  however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr W doesnt  have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1244811