K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 to 
protect Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK plc, Abbey National at 
the time,  mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 22 May 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and those outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think  the 
policy was mis-sold. I also dont think Santander  UK plc needs  to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2000 to protect Mr 
and Mrs Bs mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK plc, Abbey National  at the time, mis-sold  
them the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15049642Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, I dont  currently think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say that Mrs B was the main earner and they were  worried they wouldnt  be able to pay 
the mortgage and bills for long if Mrs B had lost her job. But theyve also said they felt they didnt have 
a choice  but to take out the policy and that they wouldve refused it if they could have. The PPI was 
taken out a long time ago  around 19 years ago  so its understandable if Mr and Mrs B dont recall 
everything that happened at the time. And this is something I have to keep in mind when deciding 
what I think is more  likely  to have happened.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  had been up and running  for a few years when the PPI was added  to their 
account, and theres no evidence that they were  taking  out any additional  borrowing  at the time the 
PPI was sold to them. Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs B chose not to take PPI when they arranged 
their mortgage. So they wouldve known  that taking out the PPI was not a condition of the mortgage 
when they took it out some  years later.
Santander says that Mr and Mrs B wouldve  been required  to complete a PPI application  form but due 
to the length of time thats passed a copy of their form is no longer available.  But its provided a copy  
of a sample of the application form it says wouldve been used at the time  and Ive not seen any 
reason to doubt this. This form shows that the type and amount of cover wouldve been included and 
that Mrs B wouldve  had to sign to agree to the policy.
Ive also seen  a copy of a welcome  letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs B following their PPI policy 
being set up - which included an insurance  schedule  of the cover requested. So I think  Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve questioned  this at the time if they had not agreed  to take out PPI. So overall I think  its more  
likely than not that Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have  to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out in Mrs Bs name only  although I can understand why they cant  remember 
this.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the policy was right for 
them. Ive seen  that Mrs B was suffering from a medical  condition at the point of sale.  Having  
reviewed the terms  of the policy it appears Mrs C wouldnt have been able to claim on the PPI for this 
condition for the first 12 months.  But thinking about what shes told us about  her condition,  I think its 
unlikely Mrs C would have thought this would  be the main reason  she might have needed  to claim on 
the policy  in the first 12 months. And after the initial  12 months  Mrs B wouldve been able to claim for 
this condition as well any other medical condition. As Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI to cover their 
mortgage, which was a long term commitment, I think its likely they wouldve planned to have the 
policy in place  long term. So even though Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been able to claim for Mrs Bs 
condition for the first 12 months,  I dont think Santander  was wrong to recommend that the policy  was 
suitable for her. And based  on everything Ive seen I dont think Mrs B wouldve been affected by any 
of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs B says she wouldve  got some sick pay benefits from her employer  at the time. Mr and Mrs B also 
say they had some savings  they couldve relied upon.  The policy wouldve paid out £973.00 for up to 
12 months if Mrs B was too unwell to work or if she became unemployed. As Mrs B was the main 
earner at the time I think having the policy in place  wouldve eased their financial strain had Mrs B 
been suddenly unable to work. And the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their benefits meaning 
they couldve used these funds to pay for other expenses. I also havent seen anything  substantial  to 
suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. And they couldve cancelled it at any time,  
without further cost,  if their situation changed or they no longer wanted to pay for it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B, Santander shouldve also taken steps to 
give them clear information  about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted it. I dont know what  
steps Santander  took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as clearly as they 
Ref: DRN15049643shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve changed  Mr and Mrs Bs decision and I 
think they wouldve taken  it out in Mrs Bs name only for the same reasons I think the policy was 
suitable for them. 
So I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about this mis-sale of the policy. Ive also 
considered whether Santander should refund any commission it received  from Mr and Mrs Bs 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy  they took out In 2017, following a 
Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued  some rules  about  how 
businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure  of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added  to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came  into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained  that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken  out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008.
Santander has given  me information that shows Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken  out in 1998 and 
ended in 2005 . So based on what Ive said above, I dont think  the unfair  relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules  and guidance made by the FCA in 
relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply  here.
So I dont think Santander  needs  to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. I also dont think 
Santander UK plc needs to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with 
their mortgage.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 5 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1504964