K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about the compensation The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) offered 
to settle her complaint about mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies taken  out 
with a number  of loans. 
background
Mrs W took out nine loans with RBS between February 1999  and April 2004. With some 
loans she took out PPI policies and some of the loans refinanced earlier  loans, forming 
chains of loans.  Each  time Mrs W took out a PPI policy, the cost of the PPI premium was 
added to the loan amount Mrs W borrowed, so she paid interest  on the PPI premiums.
In 2017 Mrs W complained the PPI policies had been mis-sold. RBS upheld  the complaint 
and offered £10,373.42 in compensation. Mrs W wasnt happy with the offer and RBS later 
recalculated the compensation  as a result of some issues that were  raised.  This time the 
compensation came to £9,717.83. But RBS said it would honour the higher offer.
Mrs W still wasnt happy with the compensation offered and also with the way RBS had 
handled her complaint. In addition to the compensation offered, RBS has also said it will pay 
£175.00 for the trouble  and upset caused by its complaint handling in this particular matter.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  on 3 April 2019.  A copy of that 
provisional decision is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. The full background 
and details of the complaint are set out in that provisional decision.
Mrs W has responded through her representative  to my provisional  decision indicating she 
isnt happy with my findings as she doesnt agree  with the way RBS has calculated the offer 
and the amount of compensation offered. She is also unhappy that not all contract  
documents and details  have been  provided  by RBS.
RBS has received my provisional decision but provided no further  information  or evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The submissions made by Mrs Ws and her representative provide a great deal of comment 
and detail in response to my provisional decision as they do not agree with my findings.  New 
detailed calculations have  also been  provided by Mrs W.
I am not going  to go through every individual point  and comment  made  by Mrs W as a 
number relate to points  previously raised  and addressed in my provisional decision  for 
example, in relation to administration costs.  However, I have below made some summary 
comments generally about the submissions provided in response to my provisional decision. 
I have also tried to set out how we approach complaints and what  we expect  a fair and 
reasonable redress calculation to cover  and refund.
The role of this service is to ensure a fair and reasonable resolution to complaints. It is not 
our function  to undertake calculations on behalf  of either party.  I have considered carefully 
the calculations  submitted  by both parties to this complaint and reached my conclusions 
Ref: DRN11606712based on what is fair and reasonable  to provide  compensation to Mrs W for the mis-sold 
PPI.
The purpose of the compensation is to put Mrs W as far as possible in the position  she 
wouldve been in had she taken out her loans without any PPI. This doesnt mean rewriting  
contracts for the loans that were taken out historically and trying to work  out what  Mrs W 
may have  done  with the small amounts she paid less each month for her loans if they hadnt 
included PPI. The aim is to ensure that any money paid for the PPI is refunded with 
appropriate compensatory interest for being  out of pocket. 
Although some PPI cost may have  been carried through from one loan to the next, this is 
taken into account  and the amount plus loan rate interest is refunded as part of the PPI 
compensation. This approach reaches a fair and reasonable  amount of redress. In addition 
to refunding the monthly payments made, 8% interest is paid on those  amounts  to 
compensate the consumer for being  out of pocket.  
The point has been made that my provisional  decision did not direct the 8% simple  interest  
to be updated.  That was because RBS are offering to honour the higher offer it originally 
made, which is more than the more accurate calculations of compensation would be with 
updated 8% compensation. 
RBS has said that as its approach to the first six loans has resulted in the higher 
compensation amount, it would not update  the compensatory  interest for the PPI on these 
loans. But RBS intends to update the 8% interest on the last three loans which were in a 
separate chain.  So the 8% on these three later loans will be updated  to the date of final 
payment. I think this is a very fair approach.
 
With regard to administration  charges  I have previously indicated  these would have been 
made irrespective of whether PPI was taken  out or not, so these charges were not caused 
by the PPI. It follows that as these charges are unrelated to the PPI the amount is not 
apportioned between the personal borrowings and the PPI borrowing added to the loan 
amount. 
It has been suggested by Mrs Ws representative that the administration charges are similar 
to a service charge for good service. As the PPI was mis-sold, they feel bad service has 
been provided so  no administration  charge [has been] earned. This type of charge is not 
related to good service. It is an administration charge for processing and administering the 
loan.
As Mrs Ws representative has included apportioned  administration charges in his 
calculations this means that from the starting  point I dont agree his calculations are 
accurate.
Mrs Ws representative has expressed concern that actual contracts have not been provided 
for all the loans. A business is not legally required to keep all documents and information 
indefinitely. So contracts for loans  taken out 15 or 20 years ago will not have full information 
available and some  reasonable  assumptions may have to be made where  this is the 
situation. The original  contracts for all these loans, going back to the 1990s,  are not 
available.
Detailed calculations by businesses  are not sent out on a general basis as they may contain 
confidential information about  the business  systems. Therefore  the format  is generally 
Ref: DRN11606713electronic when these  are released  and these  can often  be expanded to make them  easier 
to read.  If a hard copy is provided then these can be more difficult  to read. If a consumer has 
a disability then businesses would make every  effort to provide information in an accessible 
format but electronic format may be necessary  as this can be enlarged. This is an issue that 
would need to be taken up with the business if there are any concerns. 
I have also noted  Mrs Ws point about rounding the pence in contract and calculations. The 
figures have to be rounded to the nearest penny  in contracts and the rounding is in line with 
what I would  expect.
Again a point  is made about  the use of Mrs Ws name, and a change  of name meaning the 
reference to Mrs W is to a name  different to that in the contracts.  As the consumer is clearly  
the same  consumer referred  to by the more recent name this should  not be confusing.  RBS 
has clearly referred to the correct consumer by using the current  name.
The general approach taken and process used by RBS to calculate the compensation has 
been accepted as reasonable  for calculating redress for mis-sold PPI. Where there is a 
chain of loans  this is done by looking at the amounts that were paid for the PPI whilst 
repayments were being  made. For any amount for PPI in the repayments made each month,  
the consumer  is out of pocket because she hasnt had the use of the money.  And 8% simple  
interest is paid, as compensatory interest, on these amounts for PPI from the time each 
amount is paid to the date of settlement (refund). 
When a loan with PPI that was added at the start is settled early, there is generally a partial 
refund of the cost of the PPI which is deducted  from the loan amount before final settlement 
is made.  But a small amount of the cost of the PPI may remain  in the loan that is being 
settled. This extra bit of the PPI cost is paid by the new loan, so this part of the PPI is carried 
forward into the new loan.  
Mrs Ws representative says if PPI had been carried forward,  the contract  for the next loan 
would have identified  it as PPI carried forward. But this isnt the case. At the time the 
contract was created  Mrs W was borrowing money  to refinance an existing loan and to use 
for other purposes.  There was no issue with PPI at that point and no reason for the new loan 
contract to contain any indication  of what may have  been the purpose of the previous loan it 
was refinancing. And this carried forward amount of PPI has been  taken into account in the 
calculation and this extra in the loan is refunded  together  with any loan rate interest  that this 
caused. 
It has been suggested by Mrs Ws representative that monthly  payment amounts  for the PPI 
have been ignored when  looking  at the amount of PPI cost in a loan. That isnt the case, it is 
just these amounts  are not paid for by any new loan as the payments have already been 
made. So the 8% simple  interest is paid on them. These amounts repaid remain totally 
separate from any new loans going  forward. Only PPI costs still in the loan being  refinanced  
are taken into account for the calculation of PPI within the next loan.
Mrs Ws representative has indicated that later loans should be rewritten to take account  of 
compensation due at a certain  point  in time for mis-sold PPI and carried forward. As I have  
already indicated we cannot rewrite  history  and it isnt known that the compensation due for 
mis-sold PPI would at the time have been saved  each  month  by Mrs W so reducing  the 
amount needed  to be borrowed in later loans. It is just as likely Mrs W would have spent the 
small amount each month for the PPI on other things and so have still needed to borrow  the 
same amounts for her own use.
Ref: DRN11606714With regard to the original  calculation of RBS showing a negative  figure, this was the result 
of including  loan 4 in the chain when it didnt refinance anything. But the way the calculation  
works results in the higher  compensation amount.  RBS has carried out a more  accurate 
calculation, with no negative figures,  but it has agreed to honour the higher offer of the 
original calculation.
Many other points have  been made,  including  a number about  RBS not being helpful and 
that it has caused some delays. There have been  some issues  about this which  RBS has 
accepted and thats why it has offered to pay £175.00 additional compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused. And I think thats fair in the circumstances.
In summary,  I have considered in detail all the points raised by Mrs W in response to my 
provisional decision and have tried to cover  most  of the main  areas  with some clarification. 
However there is nothing  that has been  submitted to persuade  me to change my findings set 
out in my provisional  decision, which, as Ive said, is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
The method  used by RBS to calculate the compensation is in line with the DISP Rules. RBS 
has also agreed to honour the higher offer it made,  which  was inaccurate but this means 
Mrs W is getting more than she actually  paid for the PPI with her loans. RBS has also said it 
will update  the 8% compensatory interest  on the last chain of three loans to the date of final 
payment. I think this is a fair approach to take. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision,  I think  that the 
compensation offered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is fair. 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has also offered £175.00 for the trouble and upset  caused  
by the way it dealt  with this complaint, and again  I think taking account of these issues  that is 
a fair amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11606715Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs W is unhappy  with the compensation The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has offered to settle 
her complaint about a number of mis-sold  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken  out with 
some loans.
background
Between February 1999 and April 2004 Mrs W took out nine loans with RBS.  With some she took out 
PPI policies and some of the loans refinanced  earlier  loans forming a chain of loans. 
In every case when a PPI policy was taken out by Mrs W with a loan, the cost of the PPI premium  for 
the policy  was added to the loan amount she borrowed.  So Mrs W paid for the PPI as part of her loan 
repayments. This meant she paid interest on the PPI premiums whilst the loans were  running and she 
was making repayments.
In 2017 Mrs W complained  the PPI policies had been mis-sold and RBS agreed to uphold  her 
complaint. It originally offered £10,373.42 in compensation. This was to repay  all the costs Mrs W had 
paid towards  each of the policies plus some  compensatory  interest for times when she was out of 
pocket. 
RBS later recalculated  the compensation  due to some issues that were raised and this time the 
compensation came  to £9,717.83.  But RBS said it would honour the higher offer.
Mrs W isnt happy with the compensation  offered and also with the way RBS handled her complaint. 
In addition to the compensation offered RBS has also said it will pay £175.00 for the trouble  and upset  
caused by its complaint handling.
Our adjudicator said what RBS had offered both in compensation and for the trouble and upset was 
fair. 
Mrs W didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. Mrs W is represented by 
her husband.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When PPI policies are mis-sold the business is expected to pay compensation  to put a consumer, as 
far as possible, in the position they wouldve been in if they had never  bought the PPI. So the extra 
paid as part of the loan each month (including  interest) because of the PPI must be refunded with 
simple interest  at a rate of 8% per year to compensate for any times a consumer  was out of pocket.
Where one loan is refinanced by another, and if PPI was included in earlier  loans, some of the 
premium may have been carried through to later loans. Normally on early repayment of a loan, an 
amount of the premium is refunded. Taking this into account, together with what was paid for PPI 
before the early settlement, can mean a small  amount  of the premium may be carried forward.  So 
more is borrowed for the next loan, to pay for that bit of PPI still remaining in the amount  of the loan 
being paid off.
Between February 1999 and July 2000 Mrs W took out three loans (which I shall refer to as loans 1, 
2, and 3). With each of these loans she took out a PPI policy.  These loans  formed a chain, as loan 2 
refinanced loan 1and  loan 3 refinanced loan 2.
Ref: DRN11606716In September 1999 Mrs W also took out a separate loan (loan 4) with a PPI policy  attached. And she 
repaid this loan at the same  time as loan 3. Then in July 2000 Mrs W took out another  loan (loan 5) 
which refinanced both loan 3 and loan 4, combining the loans into one. She didnt  take out a PPI 
policy with loan 5. 
Loan 5 was refinanced by another  loan (loan  6) and Mrs W took out a PPI policy  with loan 6. Loan 6 
was settled  early, in November 2002.
In September 2003 Mrs W started another chain  of loans, again with the two later loans  each 
refinancing the earlier loans. The first two loans in this chain (loans 7 and 8) had PPI policies taken  
out alongside them. But the last loan (loan 9) did not have a PPI policy associated with it. 
Mrs Ws representative  has sent in a lot of information  setting out why he thinks  RBS hasnt worked 
out the compensation properly.  Id like to reassure him that Ive read everything he sent in, but our 
service is set up to resolve things quickly and informally. So although  Ive thought about  everything 
that he has said and provided I dont propose to go through all of the calculations in great detail.
Mrs Ws representative  has provided their own calculations showing what he thinks the PPI 
compensation should be. But I dont think his calculations  accurately  reflect what Mrs W paid for the 
PPI overall. I would like to clarify a number of issues as I am not sure if the representative fully 
understands how the PPI is charged and refunded. 
The administrative charge made by a business on taking out a loan is a fixed  amount and would still 
have been charged at the same level whether or not Mrs W had taken out the PPI. So if she had 
chosen not to take out the PPI she would still have borrowed the amount she wanted for her own use 
and still paid the same administrative charge. Putting her in the position she wouldve  been in if she 
hadnt bought the PPI means the administrative charge would not be refunded,  in any part, as part of 
the PPI compensation as suggested and calculated by her representative.
Also Mrs Ws representative has raised  a point about the length of a loan being  reduced if Mrs W had 
made the same payments  she actually made, but without PPI. This would  mean she would have paid 
less interest on the amount  she borrowed, which  was a higher rate of interest than the 8% simple 
interest RBS has offered.  
Mrs Ws representative  says there was a choice  to be made  by Mrs W in re-writing the loan contract 
to pay off the loan earlier rather than keep  to the same term and pay less each month. And he says 
this would  better address  the issue of compensating Mrs W for being out of pocket  as 8% simple 
interest is not reasonable.
The choice given at the time the loan was taken out was to take out a PPI policy or not. As part of the 
loan contract  Mrs W did not have the choice to pay more each  month and reduce the term of the loan.
When Mrs W decided to take out her loans, the terms available for any of the loans wouldve  been 
standard terms offered  by banks, so for example 12 months, 24 months, 30 months or 60 months etc. 
She would  not have  been  given the option to take out the loan amount she wanted, not take out the 
PPI but pay the same amount each month and so reduce the term of the loan. She would have just 
paid slightly less each  month for the loan repayment  if there was no PPI included, as the amount she 
borrowed wouldve been less.
If Mrs W wanted to pay off the loan early, then she could do so, as she in fact did with loan 1 and 
some of her other loans.
Putting Mrs W in the position  she would have been in if she hadnt taken  out the PPI means  refunding 
the extra  she paid each month   not reducing the term of the loan in the way Mrs Ws representative 
wants.
Ref: DRN116067178% simple interest is the level of compensatory interest that has been used by the courts and is what  
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  says businesses  should  pay consumers if they mis-sold  them  
PPI in the DISP Rules. So this is the approach I would  expect RBS to take.
In this complaint the PPI premium was added to the loan amount  that Mrs W borrowed for each loan 
and PPI policy. So, with loan 1 for example, Mrs W borrowed £1,000.00 for her own use and an extra  
£92.00 to pay the PPI premium. Including interest, if the loan had been paid for the whole term, the 
total paid by Mrs W would have been £1,239.84.  Part of this would have been  for the total cost of the 
PPI which  is £104.40, including  the interest,  if the loan had run to its full term.
With this loan Mrs W wouldve paid £8.70 as part of her monthly repayment amount towards  the PPI 
costs. This covered a small amount towards repaying  the total premium of £92.00 and also an amount 
towards interest on that premium. Mrs W refinanced loan 1 using loan 2 only a month after taking it 
out.
The calculation from RBS shows  that for loan 1, on early settlement a rebate of £48.18 was made  to 
the loan before  it was refinanced by loan 2. This meant that after the first months  payment for the 
loan, including  £8.70 for the PPI, £47.52 of the total PPI cost was carried forward into loan 2. So Mrs 
W borrowed an extra £47.52 with loan 2 to pay for the PPI from loan 1. This was in addition to the 
premiums added for the new policy  taken out with loan 2. This £47.52 then has the new loan rate 
interest worked out on it whilst the repayments were being made. 
So it is only the £8.70 that RBS has assumed was paid with the loan repayment for loan 1 that has 
8% simple interest added, as it says this was the amount  she was out of pocket  as part of the 
repayments to loan 1. RBS has worked  out similar calculations for the other 8 loans and, broadly 
speaking, I think its worked these out in the way Id expect it to.
Looking at the calculation  for loan 1 carried  out by RBS, I think  there may be a slight discrepancy  as it 
has said Ms W paid £8.70 for the PPI as part of the first months repayment. But that repayment was 
refunded in full a day after it was made, so Ms W was not out of pocket  for this amount. But RBS is 
refunding this anyway, so I think its paying Mrs W something it doesnt need to as it was already 
refunded in March  1999.
To settle loan 1, if paid in full, Mrs W wouldve needed to pay £1,239.84 if she had paid all the PPI 
and all the interest. I know Mrs Ws representative has indicated Mrs W only borrowed £1,000.00 and 
has questioned the amount  of interest and also the repayment figure of £1,070.72.
Mrs W actually borrowed  £1,092.00, £1,000.00 for her own use and the £92.00 for the PPI premium. 
In addition to paying back the £1,000.00 she had borrowed, the extra £70.72 that was repaid by loan 
2 included the £47.52  carried forward for the PPI, including  interest on the premium. It would have 
also included a little of the interest that was being charged for loan 1, but this is unrelated to the costs 
of the PPI.
Mrs Ws representative  has indicated he believes the £1,072.70 represents the £1,000.00 borrowed  
by Mrs W plus possibly  2 months interest as a penalty on early settlement. I dont agree this is the 
case for the reasons  I have indicated.
Every time a loan was refinanced early,  an amount of the total cost of the PPI added to the loan was 
removed as a rebate.  So this was deducted from the settlement figure  for the loan. But a small 
amount of the PPI premium  that had not yet been paid would have been carried forward into the next 
loan, shown in the calculations as residual PPI. Any residual carried forward then has the new loan 
rate interest  applied to it, so the total amount of redress for the later loan includes all the PPI 
premiums and any loan rate interest.
I have looked at the calculations  provided  by Mrs Ws representative and these do not represent what  
actually happened. For example with loan 1 they have calculated the £1,000.00 part of the loan and 
the £92.00 separately. The £70.72, part of the repayment amount, has been split between  the two 
Ref: DRN11606718different parts of the loan as £39.92 and £30.80,  assumed to be two months penalty  interest. This is 
not the case.  As I have already indicated  the £1,070.72, paid from loan 2 to clear  loan 1 wouldve  
included the £47.52 carried forward into loan 2.
So I dont think the calculations  provided by Mrs W fairly  represent what she paid for the PPI costs. I 
have made  some specific references to loan 1 but there are similar  issues with calculations for the 
other loans.  I dont think these calculations  reflect the actual  costs caused to Mrs W or identify the 
correct compensatory  interest.
There is also a slight issue with the RBS did its original calculation, as it included loan 4 as part of a 
six loan chain.  In fact loan 4 ran alongside loan 3, both these loans being refinanced by loan 5. In its 
more recent calculation  RBS has amended its calculation  to reflect  this and it resulted in a lower  
amount of compensation being identified.
However RBS has agreed to honour its higher offer made in its first calculation. So Mrs W is getting 
slightly more  than she is probably due for what she actually paid for the costs of the PPI.
Overall I think  the approach  taken by RBS in its calculations is fair in that it reflects  what  was paid 
during the repayment periods for the PPI, any rebates  applied and any amount paid as part of the 
settlement amount and carried  forward, if refinanced  by a new loan. Where no refinancing  through  
RBS occurred, for example  as with loan 6, then it is assumed Mrs W was out of pocket  for the costs of 
the PPI from the date of refinancing and she has been paid compensatory  interest for the time she 
was out of pocket. 
Based on what I have  seen so far, I think the way RBS has calculated the compensation is in line with 
the DISP Rules established  by the Financial  Conduct Authority and is fair. And I think that RBS 
calculation is a fair way to put Mrs W, as far as possible, in the position she wouldve been in if she 
hadnt taken out any PPI policies.
Mrs W is also unhappy  with how RBS has handled her complaint. RBS has agreed it made some 
errors and there has been some delay.  It has offered £175.00  for the distress and inconvenience  
caused as a result.
I think  this £175.00 is fair, taking account of everything that happened. I am not here to punish  a 
business, only to ensure a fair settlement is made between the parties. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, but subject to the responses  of both parties, I currently think 
that the compensation worked out by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to refund the costs of the PPI 
policies to Mrs W is fair. So Im not currently intending to tell The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do 
anything more.  
This is subject to any further information that is provided  by either  party  by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1160671