K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company complains that Nationwide Building Society treated it unfairly over its 
commercial lending.
B says that Nationwide acted to force a restructure  of the terms of its commercial lending  
which led to B suffering  a financial loss. 
B wants a review of the way in which  it was treated by Nationwide.
background
In 2008 B took out commercial loan facilities with Salt Commercial. Salt was the commercial 
arm of Derbyshire Building Society which then merged  with Nationwide  Building  Society.  For 
ease, I will call the lender  Nationwide.
In 2012 Nationwide instructed a surveyor to carry out a valuation  of Bs commercial  
properties. The revaluation meant that the Loan-to-Value (LVT) on Bs properties  exceeded  
140%. This triggered a default and led to a restructuring  of the loan in 2013.
B raised  a number  of concerns about the way in which Nationwide treated it. Some  of these 
related to the terms of the 2008  loan facilities. The investigator explained that he couldnt 
deal with this aspect of Bs complaint as it was more than six years after the loan was 
provided and B hadnt complained within three  years  of having become aware that it had 
cause to complain.
The investigator reviewed  the rest of Bs complaints as follows:
2012 valuation
B said that Nationwide  unfairly forced  the company into having a new valuation despite B not 
being in arrears. B said that as the financial market was unstable  at the time the assets  were  
undervalued. 
B thought that Nationwide manipulated the valuation process so that a particular valuer was 
preferred over the other  possible choices.
The investigator didnt  think Nationwide made  a mistake concerning the valuation  and he 
didnt think that Nationwide  insisted on a particular valuer.
Ref: DRN149464622013 restructure
B was unhappy that Nationwide sent it a default notice shortly after it received the valuation.  
B said that Nationwide  didnt  listen to its concerns over the valuation which then led to B 
having to agree new loan terms.
The investigator didnt  agree that Nationwide had done anything wrong.
2015 valuation
B said that Nationwide  tried to influence the outcome of this valuation  by preferring a 
particular surveyor. And that Nationwide then told the surveyor  it appointed not to value land 
on which planning consent had been  secured.  B was also concerned about a delay in the 
valuation.
The investigator didnt  think that B lost out as a result of the delay. And he was satisfied that 
B was given  the choice of valuer.
2017 
B said that once Nationwide told customers that it was closing its commercial banking  the 
level of service that B received  went down.
The investigator didnt  consider that Nationwide acted unreasonably.
B disagreed with the investigators recommendation. B says that during the financial crisis, a 
number of lenders  and valuers worked  together to effectively fix valuations.  This in turn led 
to customers potentially  being in breach of their loan agreements giving the lender the 
opportunity to renegotiate previously agreed terms to the lenders own benefit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B hasnt  objected to the investigator not considering the 2008 loan agreement. As I agree 
with the investigator  that this aspect of Bs complaint was made out of time, I dont think  I 
need to say more about  it.
In summary,  B says that Nationwide  took advantage of the financial crisis to carry out a new 
valuation and then manipulated the valuation process leading to financial problems for B. Im 
grateful to B for explaining the key issues that it wants  addressed so I will concentrate on 
these.
This service isnt a regulator and my role is to deal with individual complaints. So although B 
has asked me to consider evidence of similar  problems  faced  by other  borrowers, I need to 
consider what mistakes,  if any, Nationwide made in this particular case.
Ref: DRN14946463In 2012 Nationwide told B that it wanted  to carry out a review  of its lending facilities  as the 
interest only repayment period was due to end within the year. And that as part of any 
possible restructuring  process it would  be necessary  to obtain new valuations.  
I appreciate B doesnt see why Nationwide insisted  on carrying out a new valuation at a time 
when it wasnt in arrears  or default.  B says that there wasnt any evidence in September  
2012 that it wouldnt be able to meet the revised repayments or refinance the loan when it 
came up for renewal.
B says the very act of obtaining a new valuation at a time of financial instability was the 
reason behind many of the financial challenges that B went on to face. 
It was Nationwides  business decision to carry out the review and I dont consider that I can 
reasonably interfere in this. In any event, Im satisfied that under clause 7 of the loan 
agreements, Nationwide  was allowed to revalue Bs commercial properties.  So regardless of 
what prompted it to carry out the review, Nationwide didnt need  to have a particular reason 
to request the valuation.
B says that Nationwide had been pressing it to agree  to a revaluation throughout 2010 and 
again in 2011. I understand that B would  like me to take these previous efforts as evidence 
that Nationwide wasnt responding  to the upcoming change in repayments and was instead  
trying to force a restructure  of a debt that it had inherited from the previous  lender. 
I dont want to appear dismissive what B is saying but these events  happened  more than six 
years ago and more than three years has passed since  B reasonably  should  have known it 
had cause to complain about  them. So my focus must be on whether Nationwide was wrong 
to require the valuation in 2012.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I cant say Nationwide made a mistake.   The terms of Bs 
loans meant  that Nationwide could  obtain a valuation at any time subject to not doing so 
more than once  in a two year period unless an event of default  had occurred. 
Nationwide presented B with a choice of three  valuers and B picked the valuer. Although B 
says that Nationwide engineered the process I dont consider its reasonable for me to 
conclude this. 
The loan agreements  allowed Nationwide to set out the terms of the valuation. Im satisfied 
that Nationwide took account of Bs concerns  about the valuation and that the valuer  
responded to those  concerns. 
I agree  that Nationwide was entitled to rely on the professional opinion  of the valuer that it 
instructed - even if another surveyor may have come to a different valuation.
Im sorry  that my decision  is likely to disappoint  B, but for all the reasons Ive set out above, I 
cant reasonably  uphold its complaint.
Ref: DRN14946464my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Burgoyne  Property  
Investments Limited to accept or reject my decision before  27 June 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1494646