K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited (Cigna) charged  him 
an incorrect premium for a Roadside and Travel policy. 
background
In 2018 Cigna carried out a check and found that Mr R has been paying for premium  cover 
since 2005 for his Roadside  and Travel plan  but his policy documents had shown 
standard cover. In June  2018 Cigna wrote to Mr R to explain its findings. It apologised for 
the error  and said that  had Mr R made a claim during this time  he would  have been  
insured for premium cover  - as this is what hed paid for.
Mr R replied to Cigna.  He said that hed effectively  paid for cover  that he hadnt received. So 
he wanted Cigna to compensate him for its error.
Cigna didnt agree.  In July 2018 it said that since 1988, Mr R had requested premium cover. 
It was since 2005  that the documents it sent Mr R showed the incorrect level of cover.  It 
reiterated that if any claim had been  made,  it would  have paid the appropriate settlement 
based on premium  cover.  So it didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said he hadnt  been 
prejudiced by its error and it didnt agree it owed him any compensation. 
Mr R didnt agree. So he asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said that it took years for Cigna to notice its error. If a claim had been 
made, its likely  that he and his wifes legal representatives would have been left having to 
deal with it. And so he doesnt believe Cigna would have applied the correct level of cover  
because the policy documents were incorrect. Mr R doesnt believe Cigna would have 
noticed the error and paid the correct settlement in the event of a claim. 
So Mr R would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
When things go wrong,  we look at what the business did to put things right.  And we look at 
what impact any wrong doing  had on the customer  and if they suffered financial loss, 
distress or inconvenience as a result. We dont consider what  might have happened  we 
only look at what actually  happened.
In this case, Mr R paid for premium cover which is what he originally asked for in 1988. His 
policy has renewed each  year on this basis. In 2005  it seems  there was an error  in how the 
level of cover was recorded in the policy documents sent to Mr R. 
Fortunately Mr R didnt  make a claim up until the time when Cigna noticed the error. And 
Mr R didnt appear to notice that anything was incorrect with his policy  documents before 
then. 
Ref: DRN16920942So I cant say that Mr R paid for cover  that he didnt receive  or that he was caused 
financial loss, distress  or inconvenience  by the error. As I said,  we cant  consider what  might 
have happened. 
Cigna said that if Mr R had made  a claim it would have been  dealt with under the premium 
cover he paid for. I appreciate Mr R is sceptical about this. But theres nothing to show  me 
that his concerns would  have been founded  or that Cignas error has prejudiced Mr R. So I 
dont think Cigna owes Mr R compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1692094