K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services Limited (trading as Argos Card) 
hasnt made  reasonable adjustments for his disabilities when trying to make  payments to his 
account. This has resulted in adverse information being recorded on his credit  file and 
restrictions placed on the account  which hed like to be compensated for.
background
Mr W has a store card account  with Argos which he took out in 2016. He had an outstanding 
balance on the account which he makes payments towards every month. Mr W experienced 
difficulties in making payments to the account  due to existing medical  conditions  and 
disabilities, which makes it difficult for him to remember the five digit code needed to login 
online. 
And when  Mr W tries to make  payments  over the phone he isnt always  directed to the 
automated payment system and sometimes is on hold for substantial periods of times which  
impacts his health and he cant always complete it. Mr W made  Argos aware of this and 
requested it change its online security process to a four digit system which he could 
remember. As it explained it couldnt do so, Mr W complained.  
Argos considered  the complaint but didnt uphold it. It was satisfied that other payment 
methods were available  for Mr W to use. And that the information it had recorded on his 
credit file was an accurate  reflection  of the account history  as payments had been missed  
in August, September and October  2018.  
Mr W asked us to look into the complaint. Our investigator concluded that Mr W hadnt been 
unfairly treated.  He was satisfied he had alternative methods available  to make payments 
such that he didnt  find he had been disadvantaged  by Argos  as a result of his disabilities 
and health conditions. He also concluded  the credit file information was correct  and that no 
restrictions were  on the account.  
Mr W disagreed  and asked for the matter to reviewed.  He didnt agree any of the other 
repayment methods  were  suitable and Argos hadnt  made any other methods available, so it 
hadnt made any adjustments. He was also unhappy that Argos had recorded an 
arrangement to pay on his credit  file when he never made any arrangement with it. 
Before reaching my decision, I asked the investigator to find out more information from 
Argos about the arrangement to pay. It transpires this is an unintended consequence  from 
Argos recording a customer is vulnerable. It has arranged a fix for this and for Mr Ws credit  
file to be amended.  Mr W is aware of this but would  like consideration to be given to the 
period of time when his credit  file contained  incorrect information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Ws call with the 
investigator, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained during the course of this complaint,  we take the law, regulatory requirements 
and good industry  practice into account.  It isnt my role to make  a finding about whether or 
not Argos has acted  unlawfully  under  the provisions of the Equality  Act 2010. That is a 
Ref: DRN15824622matter for the courts. But I have  taken into account the provisions  of the Act when reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Under the Act there is a duty to make  reasonable adjustments  for disabled people  so they 
arent at a substantial disadvantage in comparison with non-disabled people. But that 
doesnt mean a business has to make any adjustment a person asks for  the requirement is 
for reasonable adjustments.  
I understand and accept  that due to Mrs W existing conditions he is unable to recall his five 
digit code to access on-line banking. He has requested this be changed to a four digit code. 
Im not persuaded this would necessarily  amount to a reasonable adjustment,  although  it 
isnt clear whether  Argos actually assessed  that. I say this because Argos online security 
system has been built and designed with this security feature. To make  such a change,  
which will not affect only Mr W but all of its other customers who access  their accounts  on 
line, would  require an IT change. That would  have cost implications and mean  that its 
system isnt as secure as it would be  five digits is a more secure form of access  code than 
four digits  as it involves  more possible  combinations. It would also need to take steps to 
notify all of its customers about that change and they in turn would need to change  their 
security details.
I make  this finding having borne in mind that Argos  has a number of different options  for    
Mr W to make payments to his account, which include:
Direct debit. This would mean  payments are requested and paid automatically to the 
account when  due (so long as there are sufficient funds  in the account). I understand 
Mr W doesnt think this is suitable  as there is a 28 day statement cycle.  But many 
thousands of customers use direct debit payments with this type of payment cycle  
without problem. Mr W hasnt provided any explanation as to why his health  
conditions would  mean this isnt an accessible payment  method. 
Standing order. This is similar  to a direct  debit but the payment  is made  from Mr Ws 
bank account  rather than Argos requesting it. A standing order pays the same 
amount on the same  day until Mr W instructs his bank to cease. 
Mobile banking  app. Argos has a mobile banking app which has a four digit security 
code. I accept that Mr W doesnt think mobile banking  apps are safe and doesnt  
want to use this. But not wanting  to use it is different to Mr W being unable  to use it 
because of his medical conditions. And the security code is the number of digits  he 
says he is able to recall. 
Making the payment via a bank,  building society or post office using the giro slip. Im 
not aware of anything  that would prevent Mr W from using this payment method.
Sending a cheque. Im not aware of any reason  why Mr W cant  send a cheque  
payment through the post. 
Telephone banking. I understand  Mr W sometimes uses this facility, but it also 
sometimes exacerbates his conditions and he can find it difficult. Argos  has provided 
a direct dial number  for its vulnerable customers team  so Mr W shouldnt have to 
spend so long on the phone. 
Im satisfied that Mr W hasnt been disadvantaged  by Argos  requirement  for a five digit code 
for online banking,  as there are other methods  that Mr W can use directly with Argos to 
make his payments.  
Ref: DRN15824623Mr W is also unhappy Argos recorded  adverse information when his didnt make some  
payments and that it also had recorded  an arrangement  to pay which he didnt agree with it. 
Mr W didnt make payments in August, September and October 2018. Creditors, when 
recording credit  information,  are required to accurately  record the status  of an account.  To 
the extent that Argos was recording  adverse information about that, it would be correct and it 
wouldnt be something I would ask it to amend. 
I turn now to Mr Ws complaint about the arrangement to pay. Argos  has looked  into this and 
explained this was an unintended  consequence  of marking  Mr Ws account as being  a 
vulnerable customer.  It is arranging  a fix for this and has now amended  Mr Ws credit  file so 
it is no longer showing  that he was in arrangement to pay. 
I know Mr W is unhappy about this, particularly as he never made  any arrangement.  Hes 
told us he believes he applied for an increased  overdraft which was declined.  He says it was 
explained this was as result  of information on his credit file. However, given that Mr W had 
correctly recorded  arrears information  on his credit history (as found above) its likely the 
arrangement to pay only played  a very small part, if any part at all, in that credit  assessment. 
Because of that, I find it unlikely to have  affected  the overall outcome of his overdraft 
application. 
Finally, Mr W has complained that his account was restricted. Both Argos and our 
investigator have considered this in relation to Mr W being able to access  his account. But it 
seems to me, having  read and listened to Mr Ws submissions, this relates to Argos 
restricting Mr W ability to spend on the account.  But as Mr W hadnt been making payments 
and the account was in arrears, I dont find Argos was acting unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W] to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1582462