K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited damaged  his car when he called it out to 
assist him under  his breakdown insurance policy, after he had accidentally  locked his keys in 
his car.
References to Ageas  include  all its agent.
background
Mr B accidentally locked  his keys in the boot of his car. He called Ageas to assist,  which  
sent out a recovery  agent. That agent  tried to open  his car door via the electric system. 
That failed so a locksmith was called out instead, who managed to open  the door and 
retrieve the keys. 
Mr B said that when he started his car, warning lights came on and then his car failed to 
start. So he called Ageas for assistance  again. This time he car as recovered  to a garage  to 
be fixed. The problem  was an issue with the electrics.
Therefore, Mr B was of the view this was caused  by Ageas first recovery trying  to gain 
access to the car. He asked Ageas to refund him his repair costs. Ageas refused. So Mr B 
brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view given the circumstances, Ageas should refund Mr B the 
costs of the repair. But he didnt think it needed to refund him the costs of the locksmith.
Mr B agreed but Ageas didnt. Therefore  Mr Bs complaint has been passed  to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
I can understand why Mr Bs garage, which ultimately repaired his electrical  fault on his car, 
cant say for definite that it was caused  by Ageas first agent trying  to gain access to his car 
through the electrics. It wasnt there at the time. It didnt know  any other history of the car 
either. But it certainly didnt discount the issue of the electrics  could have been caused by 
Ageas agent.  
So having  regard to Mr Bs testimony  and the fact theres no dispute Ageas first agent tried 
to gain entry  to the car via the electrics, I think on the balance  of probability, its more  likely 
than not, the first agents actions caused  the damage to the cars electrics. Mr B has been  
consistent throughout about the issues he encountered  with his car once  the locksmith got 
in. Further, theres no evidence that the locksmith needed to gain entry to Mr Bs car via the 
electrics either.
Therefore, taking everything into account and the issue of probability,  I consider it fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint that Ageas  refunds Mr B the cost 
of the repair  to the electrics of his car. I agree though there  is no need for Ageas to refund 
the cost of the locksmith as this was Mr Bs choice instead of being recovered  to a garage. 
Ref: DRN17980782my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited  to do the following:
Upon receipt of the invoices and proof of payment by Mr B, refund Mr B the cost of the 
repair of his car.
Add interest  of 8% simple per year from the date Mr B paid the costs, to the date it 
refunds him.*
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should 
also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.  
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1798078