K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about Daimler  Insurance Services  UK Limiteds  service  in connection 
with his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr E has an insurance policy branded in the name of his cars manufacturer.  The policy  is 
underwritten by an insurer, which is a separate business to Daimler. In December 2018     
Mr Es car was damaged in an accident. He was unhappy with the insurers service,  
particularly in connection with repairing his car and providing a suitable courtesy car. He 
contacted Daimler and was also unhappy  with its service. 
He brought his complaint  about Daimler to us. Our investigator thought  Daimler  had dealt  
with Mr E reasonably. Mr E didnt agree so his complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Daimler is an insurance intermediary. That means  it arranges  policies  and may help with 
their administration. But the cover is provided  by an insurer which is an entirely separate  
business from Daimler. And its the insurer that remains responsible  for all the actions taken 
in connection  with the handling of Mr Es claim.  That includes sorting out repairs and 
providing a courtesy/hire car. Those  arent  matters that are Daimlers responsibility.
Mr E made a separate complaint about  the actions of the insurer.  Weve dealt with that 
under a different reference number.  So I dont intend  to make any findings about the 
insurers actions in this decision.
Its clear that Mr E was very unhappy with how the insurer  was handling his claim. And he 
contacted Daimler for its help. Ive seen that it contacted  the insurer  on his behalf on a 
number of occasions. But as Ive said above,  Daimler isnt responsible for the insurers 
actions. So I think it was reasonable  for it to occasionally  tell Mr E that certain actions were 
matters for the insurer, for example the provision  of a suitable  courtesy  car and arranging  
repairs. And I think it was reasonable for Daimler  to tell Mr E to contact the insurer to discuss  
those things. Similarly, it was the insurers responsibility and not Daimlers to keep him 
informed of what was happening with his complaint.  So Im not going  to hold Daimler 
responsible if Mr E didnt  think he was kept suitably informed.
Mr Es said that Daimler  lied to him, but from the call records  Ive seen and heard I dont 
think thats the case. There might have been  occasions when the responsibility for certain 
actions could have  been better explained.  But I dont think that amounts to a deliberate  
untruth. 
Mr E was also unhappy that during  one call Daimler wouldnt  put him through to a manager. 
But I dont expect that businesses will always  have  a manager available to take a call. And 
Ive seen that on that occasion it did make a call back  when promised. So I think  it handled 
the matter reasonably. Similarly,  Mr E is unhappy  that Daimler ended  that call with him. But 
having listened to the call I think that the call handler dealt with him fairly. She explained the 
Ref: DRN16434242situation to Mr E and that a manager  would call him back in the morning.  Mr E didnt accept 
that explanation. The call clearly wasnt productive  and I think  the call handler was left with 
little option but to end the call. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1643424