K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) unfairly refused to pay 
her claim under  her pet insurance  policy.
background
Miss C has annual pet insurance  with Direct  Line,  which includes dental cover. In 
January 2019  she made a claim for the vets treatment her dog had received to extract  some 
of its teeth in December 2018.
Direct Line declined Miss Cs claim. It noted that a vet had recommended  dental treatment in 
June 2018 and that treatment hadnt been carried out within three months  of the 
recommendation. As such, it had applied  an exclusion in the policy  which said that the pet 
must have  had a dental health check in the last 12 months and any treatment 
recommended, including scale and polish, carried out within  three months of the 
recommendation. Miss C wasnt  happy  because when shed contacted  Direct  Line before  
shed claimed she said it had led her to believe  she would be covered. Had it made the 
position clear, she said she would have still gone ahead  with the treatment but it would have 
been easier to have  borrowed  the money  than it is now. She thought  Direct  Line should pay 
for the treatment.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think Direct  Line was wrong  to rely on 
the exclusion in the policy to decline the claim.  He also thought  the adviser Miss C had 
spoken to before making the claim had responded to her questions accurately. He 
understood why it would have been  helpful  had the adviser emphasised that any treatment 
recommended by an earlier dental  check-up needed to be carried  out within three months,  
as that would have reminded her about  the earlier visit to the vet. However, the adviser  
Miss C spoke to wasnt aware  of that earlier visit. 
As Miss C remains unhappy,  her complaint has been passed  to me to make a final decision. 
She said the vet had mentioned a dental  clean in June  2018 but this was said in passing  and 
the vet hadnt  said it was essential. When she called Direct  Line for advice, she didnt think 
shed been misinformed but does think some information was omitted. She believes Direct  
Line should pay the claim.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will be disappointing  to 
Miss C but, having done so, I find that I agree with the investigator and for largely the same 
reasons.
Miss Cs pet insurance policy with Direct  Line sets out what treatment costs  itll refund. The 
policy also sets out whats not covered and includes the following:
Any condition or treatment arising as a result of tooth or gum disease if your pet has 
not had a dental health check in the last 12 months and had any treatment 
recommended, including scale and polish, by the vet carried out within three  months 
of the recommendation. 
Ref: DRN17083422Dental cover was added to Miss Cs policy and she was sent an information leaflet with this 
information. So Im satisfied she was aware of the extent of this cover.
Miss C had an appointment with her vet in June 2018 and the record  of the appointment 
shows that the vet checked her dogs teeth.  The vet notes that the teeth had moderate tartar 
and the record  of the appointment says advised ideally  have  a dental. Miss C says any 
dental treatment  was mentioned in passing and the appointment  was focused more on 
breeding and the possible option  of spaying her dog. But nevertheless the vet recommended 
dental treatment.  
Miss C had her dog spayed in late November 2018. In December 2018  she returned  to the 
vet because her dog had a swollen eye. The vet said this had been caused by a tooth 
infection and recommended treatment.  Six teeth  were extracted later that month. 
Appropriate dental  care was carried out on all the teeth at the same  time, including a scale 
and polish to slow down  dental disease.  The vet said it was very important the procedure  
was followed up with a structured dental hygiene  programme at home.
When Direct Line considered the complaint, it sought advice from its own vet nurse. The vet 
nurse described the dogs tartar problem as having  progressed to having  a tooth root 
abscess and notes  that early  dental care results  in better dental health. The vet nurse also 
noted that the intention  of the three  month timeframe was to prevent future  problems.
There is no dispute that Miss Cs dog didnt get any dental treatment within three  months of 
the vets recommendation in June 2018.  And as the evidence suggests the subsequent 
treatment might have been  prevented had that initial recommendation for treatment been 
carried out, I dont  think Direct Line have acted unfairly in using  the above exclusion  to 
decline the claim.
Miss C says she called  Direct  Line before  the dental treatment in December 2018 to see if 
her policy covered her for the vets fees.  Direct Lines adviser said, it is something it looked 
to deal with, as long as your pet is up to date with all of his regular check-ups and the 
treatment is carried out within  three  months of your vets advising of you of having  that done,  
then we would look to cover that. Miss C says she took that as meaning she needed to have  
the current treatment  carried out within three months  of it being recommended  by the vet 
and that recommendation had only been  made in the past few days. She believes the 
adviser should have clarified the situation  and asked if any previous dental 
recommendations had been made.
I have some sympathy with that argument  but, having listened  to the call and having 
carefully considered  all the evidence available, I dont think  Direct  Line has done anything  
wrong. The information given by the adviser was correct. It might have been helpful  for 
Miss C had the adviser questioned her about previous treatments and dental 
recommendations but that information  wasnt offered by Miss C and the adviser wasnt 
aware of the June  2018 appointment and the recommendation  given  at that time. It was only 
when Miss C made a claim for the treatment in January 2019 that Direct Line had all the 
information necessary  to fully consider the claim.
In any event, Miss C has said she would have continued with the treatment even had she 
known she wasnt covered for it. As such, although it might have been easier for her to have 
borrowed the money if shed known sooner she wasnt  covered, she still would have been in 
the same  position  as she is now  having  to pay for the vets fees herself.
Ref: DRN17083423I sympathise with Miss Cs situation  but, in light of the particular circumstances of this case, I 
dont think Direct Line has declined her claim  unfairly and dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1708342