K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Advantage Finance Ltd.
background
In March 2018 Mr S was supplied with a used  van and entered  into a hire purchase  
agreement with Advantage.
At the point of supply the van was 7 years old and had covered 110,000 miles.
In February 2019  the van broke  down  and Mr S returned it to the dealership. By this time,  
the van had covered 117,000 miles.
Mr S says he was told by an engineer that two cylinder heads had seized. He complained to 
Advantage.
Advantage arranged for an independent inspection of the van. Based on the findings  in the 
report, Advantage rejected Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S complained to this service. He feels the van was faulty at the point of supply. Hes also 
unhappy that late payment charges have been  applied to his account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  wasnt enough evidence to 
conclude that the fault was present at the point of supply and thought the problem  was more 
likely to be due to wear and tear. She also said the terms and conditions  of the agreement 
obliged Mr S to make  payments on the due date and that if payments were late, charges 
could be applied.
Mr S didnt agree. He thought there should  be a further diagnostic  and arranged for another  
report. This said it suspected that corrosion  to the cylinders was present at the point of 
supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Advantage has supplied the van under a hire purchase  agreement theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Vans are of satisfactory  quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the van and the price 
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  van to have a degree of wear  and tear. So in order  to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the van was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply  due to an inherent defect rather than general  wear and tear.
Mr S and Advantage disagree about whether the van had a fault at the point  of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all of the available information and determine,  on 
the balance of probabilities, whether the van was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN10395952Mr S didnt experience  issues with the van until 11 months after the point of supply. During  
this time he covered 7000 miles. When the fault occurred the van had covered 117,000  
miles in total.
Its not clear exactly what the fault is. Mr S says an engineer told him the cylinder heads had 
seized. The independent engineer said that seizure  of the injector wouldnt  result in loss of 
compression but could  induce a misfire and said it wasnt possible to confirm seized injectors 
without further  diagnosis. The further  report provided by Mr S referred to corrosion to the 
injectors.
An expert engineers  report  can help to determine  whether  a vehicle is of satisfactory quality. 
In this case, the independent engineer concluded  that a failure of one or more of the 
injectors would  be unusual for a vehicle of this age and mileage and would be classed as 
wear and tear. The report also concluded that the van couldnt have been  faulty  at the point 
of supply because  it wouldnt  have been able to cover 7000   miles with faulty injectors.
Ive also looked  at the report provided by Mr S. This is less detailed then the independent  
report and refers to a suspicion that the injectors  were corroded at the point of sale.  I dont 
think this is sufficient for me to safely conclude that the van isnt of satisfactory quality.
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show that 
the van had a fault at the point of supply. It seems more likely, based  on what the 
independent report  says that this is due to wear  and tear. Because of this, Im unable to say 
the van is unsatisfactory quality and I wont be asking Advantage to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1039595