K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of the late Mrs Ws estate by her sons  and executors, 
Mr W1 and Mr W2. They  complain about the sale of a lifetime mortgage their mother  took 
out in 2006, following advice she received from Positive Solutions (Financial Services) 
Limited  now Quilter Financial Planning Solutions  Limited. Ill refer to the business as 
Positive Solutions in this decision.
Mr W1 and Mr W2 complain that the mortgage  was mis-sold. In summary, they say this is 
because Mrs W was suffering from severe mental  health conditions and didnt understand 
the mortgage. They say more should  have been  done to ensure she understood the 
mortgage, but no witnesses were  present  and no family members  knew  about  it.
The property has since had to be sold to repay  the mortgage and rolled-up interest.
background
In October  2006, Mrs W took advice  from Positive Solutions about a lifetime mortgage. The 
mortgage went ahead, and Mrs W borrowed £42,000. No monthly  payments  were needed, 
and the mortgage and interest were to be repaid  after Mrs W died or went  into long-term  
care.
In 2018, Mrs W died and her sons Mr W1 and Mr W2 were appointed as her executors. They  
say they found  out about the mortgage  then,  and had to sell the family home and repay three  
times the amount their mother had borrowed. They didnt think  this was fair, or that their 
mother could have  understood  the mortgage,  so they complained to the lender and then to 
Positive Solutions.
Positive Solutions said Mr W1 and Mr W2 had complained too late, because more than six 
years had passed since the mortgage was sold, and the late Mrs W or her family should 
have realised much sooner if there  was a problem. It said it had investigated the complaint 
anyway, and it had done nothing wrong. It said the late Mrs Ws solicitor had a responsibility 
to make sure she understood the mortgage  contract in 2006 and, while  it noted Mrs W had 
been sectioned  under the Mental Health Act a number  of times since  then,  that didnt mean 
she had lacked capacity  when she took out the mortgage. 
I issued a decision on jurisdiction  that is, whether we have power to consider this 
complaint. I concluded  that we do have the power to do so, because of the late Mrs Ws 
exceptional circumstances.  
Our investigator then looked into the substance of this complaint. He didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said the evidence showed  Positive  Solutions had recommended a suitable 
mortgage, and Mrs W had engaged with the advice and application process. He didnt think 
there was any reason  for Positive Solutions to have thought Mrs W didnt understand its 
advice or the mortgage she agreed to.
Mr W1 and Mr W2 didnt accept that conclusion and asked for a review.  They  still felt their 
late mother was very vulnerable and lacked capacity and that she shouldnt have been  sold 
the mortgage.
Ref: DRN17978802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise Mr W1 
and Mr W2 and their family will be very disappointed, Im not going  to uphold it.
Ive carefully examined the available documents from the time of the sale in 2006. They 
include the fact find the advisor completed, relevant notes,  a key facts  document  setting out 
Positive Solutions services, and a key facts  illustration (KFI) for the mortgage Mrs W went 
on to take out. These documents are the only record of what was discussed and agreed at 
the time.
What these documents show is that there were discussions between Mrs W and the advisor, 
and Mrs W answered  questions  and shared information about her finances and objectives. I 
find nothing in these  papers to indicate that the advisor knew   or should reasonably have 
thought  Mrs W lacked  capacity to understand the advice she received  or the mortgage  she 
agreed to.
Ive also carefully considered the documents Mr W1 and Mr W2 have  provided  about Mrs 
Ws medical history. Its clear  from those that Mrs W had a long history  of mental illness,  
which at times affected her capacity to make  decisions. Her records show that she was in 
and out of hospital and care homes over a period of years; she was also sectioned  under the 
Mental Health Act on a number of occasions. 
I was very sorry to read all of this, and I can certainly see that things must have been 
extremely difficult for Mrs W and her family.  However, the background here doesnt lead me 
to conclude that Positive Solutions was wrong  to recommend the mortgage it did.
As the investigator  pointed out, some  of Mrs Ws medical records  specifically say that she 
did have capacity to make decisions.  She didnt have a permanent  lack of capacity to 
understand things  and no arrangements were  in place for anyone else to manage her affairs 
for her. Besides  that, it seems Mrs Ws health  deteriorated over time.  There  is a record  from 
2012, for example, saying her family  had said she had been leading a full life just two years 
earlier. She also appears not to have had any long stays  in hospital or care because of her 
mental illnesses between 2003  and 2008.  She took out the mortgage  in question here in 
2006.
The documents relating to the mortgage  indicate  that Mrs W was clear about  what she 
wanted and why she wanted  it. The fact find says she had no savings, and wanted to reduce 
her outgoings and release as much equity  as she could from her home.  Her property was 
valued at £150,000, and she had an existing loan secured  against  it with a balance  of 
£13,500 and another  six years on the term. The payments for that loan were £240  each 
month  a significant  proportion of her £600 monthly income.  The new mortgage was to pay 
off the loan and, according to the fact find, to enable Mrs W to make a lump-sum  gift to 
family. 
The lifetime  mortgage  meant Mrs W received a cash lump sum as she wanted.  No monthly 
payments were needed, so she could increase her monthly disposable income by repaying 
her existing loan. I dont think Positive Solutions  made an unsuitable  recommendation in the 
circumstances. There werent any real alternatives for Mrs W to achieve what  she wanted.
Ref: DRN17978803I think Positive Solutions made clear to Mrs W what a lifetime mortgage  is and how it works. 
That was all set out in the KFI provided  to her. The KFI was also clear that the mortgage 
would need to be repaid,  with interest  and that this would  usually be from the proceeds of 
the sale of the borrowers home  after their death. It said, in bold type:  Check  that this will 
meet your needs  if you want to move or sell your home, or you want  your family or others to 
inherit your home, and set out how much it would cost to repay the mortgage  each year for 
the following  24 years.
There was nothing to say a family member had to be present when the advice was given. 
The property being mortgaged was Mrs Ws. A solicitor would, however, need  to have been 
involved and acted  for Mrs W. I think it likely  that they would have raised concerns at the 
time if they suspected Mrs W didnt  understand what she was signing up to.
In all the circumstances, I find I cant fairly  require  Positive Solutions to take any action or 
pay any compensation.
Finally, Mr W1 and Mr W2 have said the estate had to pay an unfairly  large amount to settle  
the mortgage. But I think thats a matter for the lender rather than Positive Solutions as the 
broker. As I have said, I find Positive  Solutions  explained how the mortgage worked and that 
interest would  roll up and be payable when the property was sold.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2, 
on behalf of their late mothers estate, to accept or reject my decision before 
12 September 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1797880