K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the increases on their home insurance policy premiums, 
held with St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
Background
Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance  policy with StAIP started in August 2002. It initially cost 
£166.67 for the year. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  engage with the cost of the insurance at renewal from 2002 until 2012 
and the policys  cost increased gradually over the years. In 2011, Mr and Mrs Bs annual 
premium was £398.30.
Mr B and Mrs B did then engage  with StAIP about the cost of the insurance from 2012  up 
until 2018. They received discounts  from StAIP each year and in 2017 the policy  cost 
£326.28. 
Mr and Mrs B renewal  for 2018 was to be £378.83.  Unhappy that the policy  had gone by 
around £50 from 2017s  cost,  Mr B says he shopped around and obtained alternative 
insurance with a different provider for around  £150.  
Because of this Mr and Mrs B complained to StAIP as they considered they had been  
treated unfairly  and had been overcharged  for many  years. They  said StAIP  and had kept 
increasing their premiums over the years unfairly, despite being  loyal customers, their 
circumstances not changing and with no claims being made under the policy.  
StAIP reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs concerns.  It said that the premiums Mrs M was charged over 
the years  were correct.  It also explained that part of the reason  for the increase  was in 
relation to the insurance premium tax (IPT) increases that happened  over the years.  
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B referred the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought StAIP hadnt acted  unfairly  or unreasonably. As Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs B, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Ref: DRN13254582Insurers will assess and treat risk differently  and will charge different premiums  based on 
that assessment  of risk. One insurer may place a significant risk on a property whereas 
another insurer might not  and there can differing factors and reasons for each insurers  
decision. Ultimately, its up to an insurer to decide what  it charges for insurance  and I dont 
have the power  to tell an insurer whether that price is right or wrong.
Second, Im also mindful that, especially  in more recent years,  the home insurance market 
has become ever more  increasingly competitive. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially 
price a policy at a lower  cost than the true cost associated  with the risk of insuring a 
property. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the consumer and recoup 
that cost over the subsequent years. I dont  think this unfair.  
But I can look at whether StAIP treated Mr and Mrs B fairly throughout the time they held 
their home insurance policy with it. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy automatically renewed  each  year. With automatic renewals there  is a 
chance that if a consumer  doesnt  engage  with the renewal process or shop around, they 
can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
StAIP has explained that when Mr and Mrs B took out their policy  in August  2002 it included 
an introductory discount. 
With Mr and Mrs Bs policy, StAIP says the gradual  increases in the premiums in the early  
year, were  due to the initial discount  being recouped and the increases in IPT. So while the 
premiums increased - it wasnt because Mr and Mrs B werent  engaging  with the cost.
And I can see in the later years,  Mr and Mrs B did engage with StAIP  about the renewal and 
the cost of the policy each year. 
As Mr and Mrs B had engaged with the cost of their policy, StAIP applied a discount each 
year from 2012 onwards   and by 2017  Mr and Mrs Bs policy  cost £326.28 which  was less 
than it cost in 2011. If Mr and Mrs B had been  unhappy with the cost StAIP  were offering, 
they were free to shop around at any time.
So I cant say that StAIP treated  Mr and Mrs B unfairly during the time they held their policy.
Mr and Mrs B think because they got a policy with another insurer  for around £150  in 2018, 
this shows they were being overcharged. I do understand  why Mr and Mrs B think  this and 
why they think  they may have been  overcharged  over the years they held the policy.
But I am mindful the new insurance they got with another  provider was likely  to have 
included a new customer discount. As I have explained above, I think  it's fair that an insurer  
recoups that discount over the subsequent  years. I dont think  its fair to expect an insurer to 
maintain that discount for the duration someone  has their policy. So the new policy  Mr and 
Ref: DRN13254583Mrs B obtained, while cheaper  at the outset, is likely to increase in price  over the coming  
years.
Also there could be a number of other  reasons why the alternative insurance was cheaper,  
for example the other insurer simply may not place the same risk as StAIP placed on the 
property. But that doesnt mean StAIPs perceptions  of the risks were  incorrect or that it was 
treating Mr and Mrs B unfairly. 
So, I dont think it would  be fair to compare the difference in cost between the policy  
Mr and Mrs B had with StAIP and the policy  Mr and Mrs B subsequently obtained. 
Summary
StAIP has shown that the increases in Mr and Mrs B premiums  in the earlier  years  were  due 
to it recouping the initial discount applied, which as Ive said, I think is fair for an insurer  to do 
and the increases werent because Mr and Mrs B werent engaging with the cost. 
Also, I cant reasonably  conclude StAIP increased the premiums unfairly because 
Mr and Mrs B werent engaging with the cost,  as later on, Mr and Mrs B did engage with the 
cost of the policy and received discounts. 
Finally, while  Mr and Mrs B, when they decided  to shop around  in 2018, obtained a cheaper  
policy  for the reasons Ive explained above   it doesnt automatically mean that StAIP  had 
treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly during the years  they had the policy. 
All things  considered, I havent seen anything  to suggest that StAIP  increased 
Mr and Mrs Bs premiums  unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1325458