K820x#14complaint
Mr L says a car he acquired  under a hire purchase  agreement provided by Advantage 
Finance Ltd was of unsatisfactory quality.
 
background
In January 2018, Mr L took out a hire purchase agreement  with Advantage Finance to 
enable him to acquire a used car. The car had driven over 106,000 miles and he paid a price 
of around £8,000. It was 11 years old and came  with a one month  warranty. 
The engine failed  towards the end of March 2018. Mr L paid for the car to be transported to 
the dealership  that had originally supplied it. The dealership  declined  to assist  and the car 
was returned to him in May.  The same  month  an independent engineer  appointed by 
Advantage inspected the vehicle. The engineer wrote a report  on the condition of the 
vehicle. The report said that the engine had failed because  the cambelt  tensioner had 
broken away from its cast alloy housing.  Mr L disagreed with the report  and thought  
Advantage Finance should  pay for another engineer to inspect the car. He said that the car 
shouldnt have developed this fault so soon after it was supplied. In his view, the fact that it 
did demonstrates that it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who concluded that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to come to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr L acquired this car under a hire purchase agreement.  This is a regulated consumer  credit  
agreement which means our service is able to consider complaints about them. Advantage 
Finance is responsible for any goods  supplied under the agreement it has with Mr L.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a range of terms into this agreement   including  one 
that the goods supplied  must be of satisfactory quality. The quality of the goods  is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would  consider  satisfactory,  
taking account  of all of the relevant circumstances  including fitness for purpose and 
durability. When looking  at a complaint about  a car, this means  wed also consider factors  
such as the age and mileage.
The fact that the engine  experienced this fault so soon doesnt necessarily mean that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. An independent  inspection  of the 
car was carried out. The report on this inspection  said:
The cause of the engine  failure was the cambelt  tensioner having broken away from 
its cast alloy housing. The fractured  surfaces  of the housing indicated that failure was 
of a sudden nature. It was a clean, sudden  break  with no previous wear or fretting 
marks to suggest that this was [an] inherent fault at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN10294362Mr L said that the tensioner may have been  on the brink of failing at the time it was supplied 
and that it was inevitable it would require  repair a short time later.  But the author of the 
report also said:
there is absolutely no evidence of erosion  to the fractured area of the tensioner and 
no evidence of any engine grime  to the facture which confirms to us that this was a 
sudden and unforeseen fracture i.e. if the fracture had opened up prior to the 
complete failure  you would have associated engine grime in the cracked areas.
So the evidence  doesnt suggest the issue that eventually  caused the engine to fail existed 
at the time of supply nor does  it suggest it had started to develop but wasnt  yet noticeable. 
Mr L disagrees with the engineers opinion and wants Advantage Finance to cover  the cost of 
a new report.  But the company which prepared the report is independent of the business and 
it has been compiled  by an appropriately  qualified  person. I dont see any reason to question  
its reliability and so I dont  think Advantage Finance is required to pay for another  report  to 
be carried out. 
Ive also considered whether or not the car was sufficiently durable. I know that the car 
developed this fault after a short period  of use. However, it had driven  over 106,000  miles by 
the time it was supplied  to Mr L. Id have very different expectations  of it compared to a car 
that was brand new or newer.  The price Mr L paid reflected  the age and mileage of the car  
and all else being the same, the parts on an older car are likely to require replacing sooner 
than on a newer car.
I can understand why Mr L would  be frustrated that a problem of this significance would 
develop so soon.  But on balance, I think the component that failed was of satisfactory quality 
at the point Mr L acquired the car. The car managed to cover nearly 3,000 miles before the 
failure. I dont think he wouldve been able to cover this distance in the car had it not been of 
satisfactory quality. Taking  all of this into account, I dont find that there was an issue with 
the cars  durability.
Finally, Im aware  that Mr L is unhappy  that he had to pay to transport the car to the garage.  
But as Ive found that the car was of satisfactory  quality,  I dont think Advantage Finance 
needs to refund this cost. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint  Mr L, Im satisfied that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time he acquired  it and so I dont think  Advantage Finance needs  
to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029436