K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt  supplied him with a full set of 
historical statements  on his accounts with the bank.
background
Mr E had a current account, savings  account and credit card account with NatWest.  He 
asked NatWest to send him statements  dating back to May 2014. He wanted these 
statements on headed notepaper,  to be itemised, and to show the payees.  
Mr E said that he needed this information for an upcoming court  case. This case  was due to 
be heard  in March  2019. It was then deferred. 
Mr E said hed been asking for this information from NatWest  since  September 2018. And 
hed asked for it eight  or nine separate times, but he still hadnt received it. He said NatWest 
had agreed this was a reasonable request,  and it had offered £200 to make up for not 
having met his request. But Mr E still didnt have the statements, and thats  what he wanted.
NatWest said that it only had two previous records of Mr E ordering statements, not eight or 
nine. But it said there was a problem with its statement printing process. The statements 
were printed  by an external company, and the statements it had ordered so far hadnt 
arrived. It thought  that Mr E had made a reasonable request, and said it was embarrassed  
that it hadnt been able to comply with that request. NatWest wanted  to pay Mr E £200  to say 
sorry for that. And it said his statements were now on their way to him. 
NatWest then supplied  statements  for Mr Es current account, but not for his credit  card or 
savings account.  Our investigator contacted NatWest  to say that the evidence it had sent us 
suggested that Mr E may have asked for these statements  before, in September 2018.  And 
she said that it was clear at least from when  our service became involved that Mr E wanted 
his savings account statements as well as his current  account  statements. 
NatWest said that the credit card statements were on their way, but it didnt think that Mr E 
had ordered savings account  statements from it. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Mr E had yet suffered any financial loss from not receiving 
his statements. So she thought that NatWests  offer of £200 in compensation was fair. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said that he was concerned by the amount of work  that NatWest  now 
expected him to do himself to manage  his accounts, and he thought  he was entitled to 
expect the same level of service as had traditionally  been provided.
Mr E thought  £200 was peanuts for NatWest.  He wanted £1,000 in compensation, which  he 
said would  more fairly reflect the costs  of the time hed spent on this. He said he still hadnt 
received the statements for his savings account  or credit card account.  And hed now had to 
submit the claim he wanted the statements for. He said the claim could be denied without 
those statements, and he told us there  was a very significant amount of money  at risk.
Because Mr E didnt  want to accept NatWests offer, this complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN15997562I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr E told us that hed asked for his statements  in order  to prove expenditure in a current 
court case. I thought it was reasonable for Mr E to want  statements which were itemised, 
and which were  supplied on bank headed  paper, when he was using these to prove 
spending in a court case, trying  to recover money.  I thought  hed asked for those before, 
and NatWest hadnt met that request. I thought it was unreasonable for NatWest  to have 
failed, repeatedly, to supply those. 
-NatWest didnt accept  that Mr E had been asking for statements since  September 2018. 
But it did accept hed been asking for statements since  the start of the year,  and it hadnt 
yet managed to get those to him. Our investigator pointed out notes on Mr Es file which  
suggested that an order for statements  was placed  by Mr E in November 2018. I thought 
it was likely Mr E had been ordering statements, which hadnt been  sent,  since late 2018.  
-NatWest hadnt  just ignored all of Mr Es repeated requests. It ordered statements  for 
him a number of times. It also ordered those  statements to be delivered internally to its 
complaint handlers, and found  they didnt arrive there either. 
-NatWest accepted, in an email  dated  21 February, that its failure to provide  statements 
in a timely manner  reflected poorly  on it. Its been embarrassed that it hasnt been able to 
help Mr E, and repeatedly apologised for this.
-Mr E finally received statements for his current account in March  2019. But he said he 
wanted statements  for his savings account and credit card account too. I thought  it was 
clear, at least from the time of our services  involvement in the case, that Mr Es request 
for statements  wasnt limited to his current account.
-When this case came to me, I didnt want to make a decision straight  away, and finalise 
our services position on this case,  while Mr Es request for credit card and savings 
account statements  were  still outstanding.  After  intervention from us, the credit card 
statements were received here, and we forwarded  them  to Mr E. We also received 
statements for his savings account. Although these werent on headed paper, they did 
have payees specified. We forwarded  these to Mr E.
-I then asked Mr E further questions about what he was using  the statements for. Mr E 
previously mentioned  that extremely large  sums of money might be at stake, if he didnt 
receive the information he was requesting. I wanted  to give Mr E an opportunity  to set 
out for us what he might lose if he didnt have the statements. So I wrote and asked him 
to set out whether  he had been able to use the information that we had sent him. If not, I 
asked him to tell us what he thought  he might  lose as a result.  I also asked him if there 
might be any other way of meeting the need for information which he told us he had. 
-I recognised that setting out this potential  loss in detail might  take some  time, so I also 
said to Mr E that if he didnt want to do that, he could ask us to make  a decision on what 
we already had. Mr E then said he preferred us to go ahead  with a decision. 
-It would  be difficult for me to take account  of any potential  loss to Mr E from not having 
been sent printed copies of his credit card and savings account statements, or from not 
having been sent a full set of statements  on headed paper for his savings account, 
Ref: DRN15997563without further  information  on that potential loss. I didnt think  I could make  a decision in 
this case which was based on any future  loss that Mr E may suffer  because  of these 
problems, without such further information,  which Mr E preferred not to give us. I was 
able to take into account the inconvenience to Mr E caused by the length  of time hes 
been waiting for statements,  and the number of times  hes had to ask for those. 
-Our investigator said NatWest should  pay £200  for that. Mr E thought this was peanuts 
for NatWest, and it should be made  to pay more.  But our service doesnt  assess cases  
on the basis of whats the right amount  to punish  a business for whats gone wrong. We 
take a different approach, of trying to compensate the individual for the impact  on them. 
-Bearing in mind our services approach  to compensation,  I didnt  think that a payment of 
£1,000 in this case would be a fair and reasonable response,  given my assessment of 
the impact on Mr E. But I did think that the impact on Mr E had been rather  higher than 
our investigator suggested,  particularly  because hed continued  to have to request 
documents, and to wait, long after her view was issued. I didnt think  she anticipated that 
when she suggested a payment of £200. 
-I thought that a payment of £350  in compensation to Mr E, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the length of time hed waited for statements  on his three 
accounts, would provide  a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  So thats what 
I proposed to award.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
NatWest said that it still thought that its offer of £200 in compensation was fair and 
reasonable, but it accepted that I had disagreed, and that I may now award £350.
Mr E said that he still had not received  statements for his savings account and credit card 
accounts. And he said he hadnt received anything from us directly either. Im concerned to 
hear that. I understood those had arrived, as Mr E seems to have  replied to an email sent 
from us which I thought had some  of the requested statements  attached. 
Mr E stressed that his first request was made, as hed said,  in September  2018. He said hed 
done that in branch, then later tried asking NatWest  HQ. 
Mr E just didnt understand why NatWest hadnt tackled the problem with statement printing 
yet. He said that NatWest  has always agreed  that his request was perfectly reasonable and 
that it has no explanation of the failure  to provide this service over many  months.
Mr E said that the amount  of £350  that Id suggested  as compensation was insignificant  to 
NatWest. Id said I didnt  think the £1,000 hed asked for was fair, so Mr E suggested  he 
should be awarded £500 and the matter be drawn  to close. He said he wanted a cheque.
I said in my provisional decision that our service doesnt assess cases  on the basis  of whats 
the right amount to punish a business  for whats gone wrong. So Im afraid it isnt relevant to 
Ref: DRN15997564my considerations here, what effect  this award may or may not have on NatWest.  Ive 
explained that our service  tries instead  to compensate the individual for the impact on them.  
And for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I still think £350 is the right amount 
to do that.
Mr E also said he thought it was unreasonable for the complaint handler at NatWest  to 
refuse to provide  him with the name of the senior complaints manager at the bank, on the 
grounds that he had already been  in touch with the CEO. I wouldnt expect NatWest  to 
escalate complaints  in this way. But I would expect it to deal fairly and reasonably with 
complaints made to it, no matter who is given the responsibility for them.  
Mr E said that hed told NatWest that due to health reasons he was unable to use computers 
for long periods, so generating statements in some form was not an option. He didnt  think 
NatWest should  delegate queries to its website, and discourage  customers from using 
branches. Broadly  speaking,  NatWest  is entitled  to decide how it runs its business. I think  
that NatWest, and our service, had only suggested electronic copies as a possible way to 
help Mr E, given the problems NatWest was having with printed statements seemed so 
intractable. 
Our service may be able to send him hard copies of the statements we have previously  
supplied in electronic format,  but those wont, of course, be in the format Mr E requested. If 
hed find that helpful, he can contact us about this.
Ill now make  the award I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must  pay Mr E £350 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1599756