K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about Churchill Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her claim 
under her home insurance  property  after she suffered  damage  to her property caused by an 
escape of water.
background
A burst water main caused  damage to Miss Ms property. She made a claim  under  her policy  
which Churchill accepted.
Approximately one month after being  notified of the claim, Churchill arranged for Miss Ms 
contents to be removed from the property. However,  Miss M, who had two cats and a dog, 
continued to live in the property.
Three weeks later, Miss M complained  to Churchill. She pointed out that she was disabled  
and recovering from medical  treatment. She considered that her claim wasnt being  
progressed as quickly as it should and that she should have been  moved to alternative 
accommodation, particularly in view of her state  of health.
Two weeks after this, Miss M moved to alternative  accommodation which she had found  
herself. Churchill agreed to cover the cost of this.
Churchill issued  a final response letter  upholding  Miss Ms complaint. It acknowledged there 
had been poor communication  from its contractors,  that there were delays in progressing  the 
claim, and that it should have arranged alternative  accommodation sooner. It explained that 
it had tried to find a suitable  property but that finding  a property which  would allow pets was 
often a challenge. It also explained  that although Miss M had raised a concern  about only 
one dryer being installed in her home, this was appropriate  at this stage of the process. It 
offered £400 compensation  in recognition  of its failings.  
Miss M was unhappy at Churchills  response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He considered that 
Churchills contractor made a mistake when  it initially visited  the property by concluding that 
it was unaffected  internally. He thought this meant there was at least one months avoidable 
delay. He thought the £400 compensation was insufficient  and that Churchills  should pay a 
further £200 compensation for causing  Miss M to live in a damp property with access issues, 
bearing in mind that Churchill was aware  of her disability. He said that Churchill  should  
ensure it handled  the claim properly from now on.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said the stress of the situation and the 
poor handling of her claim had adversely affected  her health. Sher mentioned a particular 
telephone call which she said had caused her upset.  She considered the proposed 
compensation was not enough.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.    
Ref: DRN18003942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
Churchill has acknowledged that there were errors in its handling of the claim. There was an 
error by the contractor  who first visited the property.  There was poor communication  from its 
loss adjuster to Miss M, as well as poor communication between  the loss adjuster and its 
contractors. This caused delays in the progress  of the claim.
I can understand how Miss M became frustrated at the lack of progress. And I can 
understand how she was concerned at having  to remain in her damp property even after 
nearly all her furniture had been removed. It seems that Miss M was reluctant to move 
without her pets, and this caused problems in locating suitable alternative  accommodation.  
I appreciate that Churchill cant be held responsible for the absence  of suitable  nearby 
properties. I also note that the property which Miss M eventually  found was owned by a 
friend, suggesting it might not have been  possible for Churchill to have known about it. 
Nonetheless, I consider  that Churchill  was slow to help Miss M by confirming that it would 
pay for alternative accommodation  and supporting her in her search for this. 
Churchill offered  £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its poor 
handling. Our investigator thought  it should pay £200 more than this and I agree. I think  that 
total compensation of £600  would  more appropriately reflect the trouble and upset which  
Miss M has been caused.
Miss M thinks  this sum is not enough. She has referred to the stress she has been  put 
through and the effect on her health. I acknowledge that Miss M has been through a 
stressful time but the escape of water  was always going to result in stress  and disruption.  I 
have to determine to what extent Churchill has been responsible  for adding to that stress. 
Im satisfied that the award is reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss M has also referred  to a particular telephone call which she found  upsetting.  However, 
she hasnt been  able to clarify exactly when the call took place or whether it was with 
Churchill or its loss adjuster. Ive had a look at all the telephone notes from the relevant time 
and it isnt obvious why any of them should  have caused Miss M particular distress. 
Accordingly, I have  no reasonable  grounds for saying that this call should cause the 
compensation to be increased.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Churchill Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss M a total of £600 compensation. If 
Churchill has already  paid Miss M the £400 compensation it previously offered her, it may 
deduct this sum from the amount it must  now pay.
Ref: DRN18003943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1800394