K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt carry out appropriate 
repairs to her car when  she made a claim on her motor insurance policy and that it provided  
poor service overall.   
background
Miss Ss car was damaged when it was parked and unattended. She told Advantage that 
there was cosmetic damage  to it and that an airbag light had come on. An approved repairer 
dealt with the cosmetic  damage but not the airbag, as it said the issue wasnt related  to the 
incident. Advantages in house engineer agreed, but it instructed an independent engineer to 
inspect the car as well. 
The independent engineer didnt  think  the airbag fault was incident-related. He said the car 
had been written off previously and thought it could have developed then. Miss S then took 
the car to a dealership garage and it said the fault was incident-related. Advantage said it 
needed a report  showing when the issue started, but the garage wasnt able to provide one. 
Meanwhile Miss S had told Advantage that the approved repairer  damaged her car. The 
damage was accepted,  but the repairer  didnt contact Miss S for six weeks  to arrange  to put 
it right. By then shed sold the car for scrap. Miss S thinks she lost £2,000 of the cars value.   
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Ss complaint. He thought Advantage had acted 
reasonably in dealing with the claim. He thought the compensation it offered for poor service  
was fair. He said it was fair for Advantage to rely on the findings of three  engineers about the 
airbag issue, given that the date the fault started couldnt be shown. And he said Miss S had 
been told the new damage  to her car was going to be repaired before she sold it. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
I think it was fair for Advantage to rely on the engineering evidence  it had in deciding that the 
airbag issue wasnt  incident-related. It was open to reconsidering the issue, should  the 
dealership garage  be able to show when the fault started. As the car had sustained  previous 
damage that led to it being assessed  as a write-off, I think  that was reasonable.  
Miss S later said she hadnt wanted the cosmetic damage to be repaired. The file notes dont 
show that she raised this issue  with Advantage  and its normal  for all reported damage to 
be repaired  unless theres an instruction  from a consumer to the contrary. 
Miss S told Advantage that the independent  engineer told her to get the airbag fault fixed  
herself. His report only shows  that Miss S was going  to do that. He may have given her that 
advice, given that he didnt think Advantage was responsible  for the issue.  If so, I dont think 
that was unreasonable. Miss S has also suggested  that he said she should have the airbag 
reset after the repair, and thats why it couldnt  be shown when the fault started. But theres 
no mention of that in his report. I dont think Miss S can show that it was the engineers fault 
that Advantage wasnt able to agree to pay for the issue. 
Ref: DRN17693672Miss S says she had to sell her car because  she couldnt afford to repair the damage  the 
approved repairer  had caused.  But Advantage and the approved  repairer had accepted  that 
the damage was done whilst  the car was with the repairer - and it had agreed  to put it right.  
There was a delay  in the repairer contacting Miss S to arrange for the repairs, despite 
Advantage chasing it. But the decision to sell the car in the meantime  in its unrepaired 
state  was hers. Had she waited for the repairs to be done,  she may not have decided to 
sell the car at all. And she would certainly  have got more for it once it was repaired. So I 
dont think Advantage  can be blamed for the loss she made by selling the car for scrap. 
Overall, I think Advantage dealt  with Miss Ss claim reasonably, and that the compensation it 
offered was adequate, so I cant uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1769367