K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  took too long to authorise 
repairs after they made a claim on their motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs C told Acromas she wanted repairs  done to the car by a repairer of her choice. Acromas  
says it didnt get one of the two estimates it required until 8 November 2018. It accepted that 
after that date,  there  was a short delay in its engineers authorising the repairs.  It offered £75 
compensation for that. Mr and Mrs C said the delay  was from 25 October 2018. They said 
that was when the second garage emailed its estimate to Acromas. Mrs C forwarded  the 
email to Acromas a few days  later. It said it didnt  receive either of these emails. 
One of our investigators  checked that the emails  were sent to the correct email  address. He 
thought it was more likely than not that they were received. He said we normally say an 
insurer has done nothing  wrong if it can show it sent an email to a consumer. That applies 
even if the consumer says they didnt get it, so he thought the same  applied the other way 
round. He said Acromas  should pay a further £75 compensation for the longer delay.
Acromas didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was sent to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We deal with many cases where a consumer or an insurer  can show  they emailed the other  
party, but the other party says they didnt get the message(s). We check whether the email 
address was correct.  If so, we usually say the party that sent the email(s) did nothing wrong.  
In this case, Mrs C has shown the second  estimate was emailed  to Acromas directly by the 
garage. Shes also shown she forwarded  it to Acromas a few days later. That followed a call 
Mrs C had with Acromas  when it said it hadnt got the garages  email. So it seems  Acromas 
was expecting an email  with the estimate  from Mrs C after that call.
Acromas has sent us a screenshot showing that it got emails  from the garage  in the first 
week of November 2018. But it hasnt provided  a screenshot of the previous week.  
It isnt possible to say what  happened to the emails sent to Acromas  towards the end of 
October 2018. We know the emails were sent to the right address. So I think its more  likely 
than not that there was a problem of some kind with Acromass systems or process. I also 
think that as Acromas was waiting  for an estimate  Mrs C had said it should already have got, 
its reasonable to say it should have followed up on that. 
The turnaround for authorisation of the estimate  by Acromass engineers in November 2018 
was four working  days. Had the same happened  from 25 October  2018,  Mr and Mrs C would 
probably have  had the car back by the end of October  2018.  Mrs C has told us that due to a 
mobility issue,  the loss of the car was hard for her to cope with. I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Acromas to pay Mr and Mrs C a further £75 compensation.
Ref: DRN12789572my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C a further £75 compensation (£150 in total).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1278957