K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Unum Ltd (Unum) has declined  his claim under his employers group
income protection policy.
background
Mr D had the benefit of income protection insurance  that his employer holds with Unum. If a
claim was accepted the policy  would cover some of Mr Ds income after the deferred period
of 26 weeks.
Mr D has been off work since October 2015  with neck, shoulder and lower back  pain,  which
he says has prevented him from carrying out his job which involves mainly physical work. In
May 2016 his employer  submitted a claim to Unum on his behalf. Unum considered
Mr Ds medical  records  and the occupational health records  his employers provided but
declined the claim, as they didnt think the medical  evidence supported  a long absence from
work.
Mr D brought a complaint to this service  and a final decision  was issued in April 2017. The
ombudsman didnt uphold  the complaint, as while he didnt question that Mr D had genuine
health problems,  he didnt think the medical  evidence was sufficient to say Mr D was unable
to carry out his job, due to illness  or injury, as required by the policy. But he said he
expected Unum to keep  Mr Ds case under review and re-assess  his claim in the light of any
new evidence.
Mr D ceased to be a member of the policy when his employment ended in April 2017, shortly
after the final decision was issued.
In early 2018 Mr D sent further evidence to Unum  and asked them to reconsider his claim.
Unum reviewed this evidence but didnt believe there was any objective  new evidence to
cause them to change  their earlier decision to decline his claim.
Mr D then complained  to our service.  Our investigator considered  the case and initially  said
she didnt have enough evidence to say whether  Mr D was unable  to work. And the medical
evidence didnt show he met the policy definition  of incapacity, so she didnt recommend the
complaint be upheld.
Mr D then provided further medical evidence, a letter from his GP dated 9 August 2018,
which said he was unable  to carry out the strenuous duties of his employment.  Based on this
evidence our investigator accepted Mr D met the policy definition of incapacity.  So she
recommended Unum should pay Mr Ds claim until Unum could demonstrate he no longer
meets the policy definition  of incapacity, or until he reaches the age of 70, and also pay 8%
simple interest from the date he submitted his claim.
Unum didnt agree so the case has come to me for a decision.
Unum hadnt seen all the further medical evidence Mr D provided to our service. But theyve
been sent copies of this evidence and have confirmed theyre  happy  for this to be
considered as part of Mr Ds complaint.
I made  my provisional decision on 20 June  2019. In it I said:-
Mr D was a member of a group income protection scheme provided  as an employee  benefit.
Ref: DRN17005622While Mr D was a member of the scheme  when the ombudsmans decision was issued on
12 April 2017, his employment ended on 18 April 2017. The policyholder is Mr Ds employer,
and his membership  of the scheme was linked  to his employment.
The policy states,  section  4.9.1: A member ceases to be a member  on the earliest  of the
following (a) the  date  they cease to be in an employment relationship  with the  employer.
And section  7.7.1(b) of the policy states: All benefit payments  shall cease and Unum will
have no further liability to, or in respect of a incapacitated member  immediately on, and with
effect from, the earliest  of the following  (b) the date they cease to be an employee, except  in
the case of an equity partner or LLP  member,  or as provided under paragraph 7.7.2 (Paying
direct  subject to Unum agreement)
Section 7.7.2 provides that where  the policyholder  notifies Unum in writing  at least  14 days
before the end of an employment relationship, then Unum may agree to continue  to treat that
employee as a member  of the scheme and to pay basic  benefit  directly to the member,
despite the end of the employment  relationship for so long as Unum sees fit.
We asked Unum to confirm whether there was any agreement to continue
Mr Ds membership of the scheme  and theyve told us there wasnt.  So as
Mr Ds employment ended on 18 April 2017 he ceased to be a member of the scheme and
be eligible to claim benefit on that date.
When in April 2017 the ombudsman said Unum should keep  Mr Ds case  under review, this
was on the basis  that he continued to be a member of the scheme. But even though Unum
considered the further medical evidence  Mr D submitted in early  2018, by this time he was
no longer a member  of the scheme, so wasnt eligible for benefit, even if he met the policy
definition of incapacity.
While I think Unum could have made the position  clear to Mr D when he submitted his
further medical evidence,  it was his employer, not Mr D who was the policyholder. So it
would be for the employer, and not Unum,  to advise Mr D that his membership of the
scheme, and so his entitlement to any benefit under the policy,  ended  on the termination of
his employment.
The ombudsman who considered this case in 2017  said he didnt think,  on the evidence to
date, that Mr D met the requirements for benefit to be paid. Any material new evidence
would only enable me to consider that evidence, and not to reconsider the case  from the
date Mr Ds claim under the scheme was first submitted to Unum. So I can only look at the
short period  between the decision being issued on 12 April 2017 and Mr D leaving the
scheme on 18 April 2017.
Since 12 April 2017  Mr D has sent Unum the following further  evidence:-
A letter from his GP dated 24 March 2017   this says that x-rays had shown arthritic
changes and hed had physiotherapy but continued  to have neck  pain. Mr D was awaiting a
pain clinic  referral. He also complained of intermittent sensation  of pins and needles  in both
hands particularly  severe at night. The GP described the MRI as showing a significant
problem with his spine.
Unum said they felt this letter didnt contain any new objective evidence  to alter their
previous understanding of Mr Ds condition. And they felt the GPs assessment of the MRI
scan was inconsistent with the consultants description.
Ref: DRN17005623A letter from an Orthopaedic Surgeon  dated  15 May 2017 which says a MRI scan  has shown
some disc degeneration and osteophyte bulging at C5/6 with foraminal  stenosis on both
sides and recommends facet joint injections. Mr Ds main complaint was noted  to be neck
pain, with left shoulder stiffness, linked to narrowing of the subacromial joint, for which  he
was to have physiotherapy. Mr D also complained  of tingling and pins and needles in his
hands causing him to drop things.  Nerve conduction studies had been requested  to see
whether he had carpal tunnel syndrome. His neck is described as stiff and irritable but there
was no evidence of nerve impingement  in his neck and neurological examination  was
otherwise noted  to be normal.
When they considered  this Unum said the MRI findings appeared to be consistent with
earlier x-rays showing mild degenerative changes consistent with Mr Ds age. And they said
although the results  of the nerve conduction  studies werent available  the distribution of the
finger tingling, mainly  in his middle fingers,  wasnt typical of carpal tunnel syndrome.
Confirmation from the DWP that Mr D had been awarded the enhanced rate of Employment
and Support Allowance (ESA) and Personal  Independence Payment (PIP).
Unum commented that in awarding the enhanced  rate of mobility part of PIP it was noted
that Mr D couldnt  walk more than 20 metres even when aided. They said if this was a valid
assessment of his functional capacity, it suggested that subsequent to the orthopaedic
assessment on 9 May 2017 Mr D had developed a new medical problem causing a
substantial reduction  in his functional capacity,  because his previous  medical  status didnt
cause such an impairment  in function.
Mr D sent us the following further  evidence,  copies of which  weve provided to Unum:-
A letter confirming  that Mr Ds blue badge application had been successful.
A letter from a neurologist  at East Surrey Hospital dated 29 March 2018, who saw Mr D in
relation to persistent headaches. Shed  requested a brain MRI but her view was these were
tension type headaches  with a medication overuse element.
A letter from Mr Ds GP dated 19 June  2018.
A letter from a consultant  neurologist dated  25 June 2018 confirming Mr Ds brain MRI scan
hadnt shown  any significant intracranial abnormality and stating hed reported his
headaches were generally  better.
A letter from Mr Ds GP dated 9 August 2018  stating he has significant  ongoing  problems
with his spine  confirmed on MRI and an ongoing chronic problem, dating from 2015, which
will deteriorate as he gets older. He undertook a strenuous  job but due to problems in his
neck, shoulders and spine  he couldnt  carry out these or any other duties.
A letter from the consultant in anaesthesia and pain management dated 14 August 2018
confirming Mr D is still getting a lot of neck symptoms and hes organising repeat facet joint
injections.
A medical  report form completed  by a registered  physiotherapist following an assessment on
11 December 2018. This states Mr D suffers  from osteoarthritis in his neck, lower  back  and
shoulders and possibly in his hips. In addition he had surgery  for an umbilical  hernia  in June
Ref: DRN170056242018 and is reported to suffer from headaches and depression. During the examination
Mr D is said to have appeared to be in a lot of pain and discomfort and because of this only
a limited physical examination was carried out. Its noted that all movements of his neck,
back, arms and legs were limited by pain and stiffness. His mobility was reduced  and he
walked slowly using one crutch.  He reported he needed assistance  from his family with all
day to day activities, including dressing and getting  in and out of bed. He stated he was
receiving ongoing  cortisone  injections, on a monthly  basis, into his facet joints, which only
provided temporary relief, and surgery on his shoulder joints had been discussed.  And
based on the limited  physical  examination carried out the report says Mr D showed
significantly restricted upper and lower limb joint movements and reduced power. He had
severe difficulty mobilising which was unlikely to improve even with the use of a manually
propelled wheelchair.
Having reviewed the further medical evidence Mr D provided to Unum, I think  theyd already
seen the letter from Mr Ds GP. And this and the MRI scan  report  were  considered  by the
ombudsman in April 2017. The orthopaedic  surgeons comments on the MRI scan are in line
with the MRI scan report so I agree with Unum  this doesnt provide any new objective
evidence.
In April 2017 the ombudsman also considered that Mr D was receiving ESA.  Ive seen  that
Mr D was awarded the enhanced rate of ESA and PIP. I havent seen any contemporaneous
medical evidence  to support Mr Ds statement,  at his DWP assessment, that he was unable
to walk more than 20 metres, even with assistance. In the absence  of such  evidence it
doesnt seem unreasonable for Unum  to have said the medical evidence didnt support such
an impairment in function, and that it appeared a new medical problem was causing  the
reduction in his functional capacity. And the criteria  for payment of ESA and PIP arent the
same as the criteria Mr D needs to satisfy  in order to receive benefit from Unum.
Ive considered all the further evidence provided  by Mr D. However I find that the medical
evidence contemporaneous to his claim carries more weight than that prepared over a year
later. This is because  while  I accept Mr D has ongoing health  problems, Im concerned with
his health up until 18 April 2017.  Im satisfied too that the orthopaedic evidence  doesnt
support the deterioration in Mr Ds condition, reported by Mr D, being  as a result  of his
condition while he was eligible for benefit,  or that he fulfilled the policy definition of incapacity
in the period Im able to consider.
So I think Unum is reasonably entitled  to decide that Mr D doesnt  meet  the requirements for
payment under the policy.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Since I made my provisional decision Unum have  said that they accept my provisional  
decision.
Mr D doesnt accept  my provisional decision for a number of reasons. 
Mr D has said that in his decision in 2017 the ombudsman said Unum  should keep his case 
under review  in light of any new evidence.  Hes  unhappy that his case  has been with our 
service for some time, and while our investigator upheld his complaint, Ive said that as he 
left his employers  group scheme in April 2017, I can only look at the short  period between  
when the earlier decision was made  and when he left the scheme.  He says this is unfair as 
he wasnt told by his employer, Unum, or this service, that new evidence couldnt be 
Ref: DRN17005625considered after he left his employment.  He believes he should have been told sooner that 
his complaint wouldnt be upheld as hes spent  time and money obtaining further evidence in 
support of his complaint.
He feels that as the letter from his GP dated 9 August 2018  states  hed been  unfit to carry 
out normal work duties,  or any other duties, since 2015, I should  consider his claim for the 
whole period of his absence.
Mr D has also said that he believes Unum have  moved the goalposts  in relation to his claim 
and he believes our service favours Unum  in considering complaints against them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points  raised  by Mr D. I accept that when the ombudsman made his 
decision on Mr Ds complaint in April 2017 he said Unum should  keep his complaint under 
review. I referred to this in my provisional decision.  I cant revisit the 2017 decision, but the 
ombudsman did not, and was not obliged to, comment on what would happen if 
Mr Ds employment were  to come to an end. 
I also said in my provisional decision that while  I accept that Unum  could have  told Mr D, 
when he submitted further evidence to them, that he was no longer a member of the 
scheme, it was his employer who was the policyholder. And I still think  it was for his 
employer to advise  him that his benefits  ceased when his employment  ended.
And I think Unum reviewed the evidence on the basis of the claim Mr D had already 
submitted, from the time his absence from work started in 2015. I say this because they said 
there wasnt any objective new evidence to cause  them to review their decision to decline his 
claim.
While Mr D brought his complaint to our service  in 2018 and initially it wasnt upheld  he then 
provided further evidence. Having reviewed  that further evidence our investigator  upheld the 
complaint. Unum then requested a decision,  as either, or both parties,  are entitled to do if 
theyre unhappy with our investigators opinion. In preparing  my decision Im required to 
review all the evidence  anew. I set out in my provisional decision my view on the evidence,  
this included the letter from Mr Ds GP dated August 2018, and the reasons why I can only 
consider the complaint for a short period in April 2017. I understand that Mr D is unhappy 
with my decision  but its based on my assessment of the evidence presented by the parties. 
So while Ive considered Mr Ds comments Im not persuaded to change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my above  and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Unum  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Ref: DRN17005626Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1700562