K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the amount of compensation offered to him by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC for the mis-sale  of payment protection  insurance (PPI). Mr W thinks  
the amount of compensation hes been offered is too low.
background
Barclays says that in August 2001  Mr W opened  a bank  account with it. And it says that in 
June 2007 he was sold a PPI policy to protect the repayments on this account when 
overdrawn. Barclays says that the policy was closed by the end of that month,  with the result  
that Mr W was only ever charged one premium  of £0.80 for his PPI policy.
Mr W complained  to Barclays  that hed been  mis-sold the PPI policy. Barclays upheld his 
complaint and offered to pay him compensation for the mis-sale totalling £188.66 (after  tax). 
Our adjudicator thought the amount offered  by Barclays was fair. Mr W didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says he thinks  that he opened  his bank account earlier than August 2001 and that he 
was charged more than £0.80 for his PPI policy.
Barclays has provided copies of all the statements for Mr Ws bank account from 
August 2001.  The first page of these  statements has Page 1 printed at the bottom. I can 
also see that theres an opening cash deposit  of £50 shown on the statement for 
13 August 2001.  So Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr Ws bank account was first 
opened in August 2001. But I can understand why Mr W may not remember  this now.  
The final statement provided by Barclays  is for September 2018, which is after the date on 
which Barclays responded to Mr Ws mis-sale  complaint. Ive looked  through all of these 
statements and, as far as I can see, the only PPI premium charged by Barclays  throughout 
this period was £0.80 in June 2007.  So Im satisfied that Barclays correctly identified  the total 
amount Mr W was charged for the PPI policy.
When a business  has mis-sold a PPI policy to a customer, we would normally  expect it to 
refund the PPI premium(s) charged  for it. We would also expect the business to refund any 
interest and other fees that the customer may have been charged  as a result  of the PPI 
premium(s). And we would expect it to pay simple interest at 8% for any periods when the 
customer may have been out of pocket because  of these. 
In this case, Barclays offered to refund the £0.80  PPI premium Mr W was charged. Its also 
offered to refund the £144 of interest  which it has calculated could have been charged as a 
result of this premium. And its offered to pay £54.82 in simple interest at 8% for the times 
when Mr W could have been out of pocket  as a result of these.  This is the way in which I 
Ref: DRN19164282would have expected it to calculate the compensation due to Mr W. And so I think the total 
amount offered by Barclays of £188.66 (after tax) is fair, fully compensating him for its mis-
sale of the PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
I understand that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has already paid Mr W the compensation it 
previously offered to him, so I dont  require it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1916428