K821x#15complaint
Mr L says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr L took out with a loan in November  
1999. HSBC cant say the sales  process  used to sell the PPI to Mr L. Mr L says it was taken 
out at a meeting with the bank when he took out his loan.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Neither HSBC nor Mr L can say whether the PPI was recommended to Mr L or not. But 
based on what we know about the way HSBC sold PPI at the time, I think  its more likely that 
HSBC did advise Mr L to buy the policy. So, although Mr L said this was a non-advised sale, 
out of fairness  to him, I have worked on the basis it was an advised sale. This means  HSBC  
had to make  sure the policy  was right for Mr L. It also had to give him enough clear,  fair and 
not misleading information  so that he could decide if it was right for himself and if he wanted 
to buy it.
The loan was for 48 months and his PPI policy covered  him for the same term. The policy 
cost nearly £1,000 on top of Mr Ls loan of £6,500. He wouldve had to pay interest on the 
PPI premium too.  
Based on what we know of Mr Ls circumstances at the time he took the policy,  I dont think  it 
was right for him given his circumstances.  I say this because Mr L told us he took the loan 
for essential every day spending. So I think he had a need for a flexible arrangement,  
because its likely he wouldve needed to end the loan early, or arrange  a further loan before 
the date that the loan was due to end. But Mr L wouldve received only a limited refund of the 
PPI premium if the policy had been cancelled early. That means I dont think it was flexible 
enough for his needs and it wasnt suitable  for him. 
Ive taken into account everything HSBC has said in response to the adjudicators view. But 
this doesnt change my decision. 
I dont think Mr L wouldve bought the policy if HSBC  had made  it clear  enough  to him that it 
wasnt suitable for his particular  needs.  So, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint because I think  
hes lost out as a result  of what HSBC did wrong. 
Ref: DRN10554932putting things right
Mr L borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr L needs to get back the extra  hes paid.
So, HSBC  should:
Work  out and pay Mr L the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr L the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it wouldve cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr L paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  HSBC can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one
.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1055493