K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1994  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint, and Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of the application  form that was completed for Mrs Bs store card.  
There is a section titled Payment and Card Protection  there is a brief description  of the 
cover. In the section there are options to select or decline PPI. The box to select  PPI has 
been ticked, so I think this reflected  what she wanted. If she didnt want  the PPI she could 
have chosen the option to decline the cover. So I think FICL made Mrs B aware  she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs B  so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But FICL did have  to give Mrs B enough  information to allow her to decide  for herself 
whether or not to take the PPI.
Its possible  the information  FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been  and she says some of the information  on the cost of the policy wasnt.  But she chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And based on what shes  
told us about  her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   for example, she was in full time employment 
and shes  said she didnt  suffer with any pre-existing medical conditions. It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont  think better information about  the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments, including what  shes said about not needing the 
PPI cover because  she was entitled three  months full sick pay followed statutory sick pay 
from her employer if shed been  too ill to work. But this policy wouldve helped  cover  her 
payments if shed lost her job or been too ill to work until the full balance was repaid, or until 
she returned  to work  and this would have been in addition  to any sick pay she mightve got 
and potentially for longer than her sick pay would  have lasted. 
Ref: DRN15575522So overall, although the information provided  by FICL couldve been clearer,  based on what  I 
know about Mrs Bs circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  useful to her and I 
dont think that more, or better, information wouldve made her act differently and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Mrs B lost out as a result of anything FICL mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1557552