K821x#15complaint
Mr O says that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 7 instalment loans for Mr O between May 2016  and July 2017. Mr O said 
that he was in financial difficulty and borrowing from other lenders.
Sunny reviewed the complaint and offered to refund Mr O all of the interest and charges he 
had paid from loan 4 onwards and remove these details from his credit file to reflect  that it 
should have asked further questions.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued to 
lend to Mr O from loan 3 onwards as he was reliant on this type of credit and essentially using 
the loans to supplement his income.  The adjudicator  thought  that by this point Sunny should 
have realised that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator  recommended  that in 
addition to the offer for loans 4-7 Sunny put things  right for Mr O by refunding  all interest and 
charges incurred on loan 3. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that Mr O was 
required to repay only a small amount of his declared income towards  his repayments on 
loan 3. The fact that there  were a number  of loans open was because of the nature of the 
product and the flexibility it provided  for consumers. As the business  didnt agree the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr O could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN17378382the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.  
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr O. It asked Mr O for details  of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Os credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr O loans 1 and 2 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr O 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one and 
two, I dont think that I need  to say more about them.
Similarly, Sunny has agreed to refund all interest and charges incurred on loans 4 to 7 and 
to remove the entries from Mr Os credit file which is in line with what  I would have asked it 
to do. So it is only loan 3 that is not agreed.
At the point of loan 3 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Os borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr O had taken out 3 loans totaling £800 in four months. Loans 1 and 2 hadnt 
been fully repaid. Taking out this many loans within such a short time frame should  have  
prompted Sunny to consider whether this lending was sustainable for Mr O. His pattern of 
borrowing suggested that he was reliant on short term credit  and not managing his money 
responsibly. I think that Sunny should have  done further checks at this point about why Mr O 
needed to borrow  so often. If it had done it wouldve seen that Mr O had a number  of other 
short term lending accounts and further borrowing was unsustainable.  I agree with the 
adjudicator that Sunny  shouldnt have  given Mr O loan 3.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Os lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr O.
Ref: DRN17378383Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Os case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. 
So Im upholding  Mr Os complaint about  loans  3 to 7.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Mr O paid on loans 3 to 7;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loans 3 to 5 from Mr Os credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr 
Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1737838