K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about charges applied by LeasePlan  UK Ltd (trading as Network) when he 
returned a car at the end of a hire agreement. 
background
Mr M acquired this car from LeasePlan under  a hire agreement. When  the car went back 
LeasePlan asked  Mr M to pay £175  because the car wasnt serviced in line with the terms of 
the hire agreement. Mr M says he had the car serviced -at local garage and the car was 
returned before the next service was due. He wants LeasePlan to remove  the charge and 
pay him compensation for distress  and inconvenience caused  by chasing for a payment 
thats not due. 
LeasePlan says 
Mr M was obliged  to have the car serviced according to the manufacturers  
recommended schedule by an approved agent and ensure the service  record  was 
completed - and keep  accurate records; 
an approved agent  is any main  dealer  or VAT registered garage able to complete 
work in accordance with the manufacturers  guidelines so that the warranty  isnt 
affected;
there was a warning  light on when  the car was returned which  shows  a service  was 
overdue and/or the vehicles digital service  record had not been  updated  properly;
it asked Mr M to provide proof that he had the car serviced  and he supplied a hand  
written receipt for £125 from a garage that LeasePlan hadnt approved and couldnt 
locate on an internet search;
Mr M was unable  to provide evidence to show that the car was serviced in line with 
his obligations  under the hire agreement  so LeasePlan has the right to charge the 
amount by which it reasonably considers the value  of the car was affected by this 
lack of evidence;  
an approved agent  would  probably  have charged about £175 for this service and the 
charges applied are fair. 
Our investigator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Hes satisfied that 
Mr M was required to have the car serviced  by an authorised agent. He says Mr M could 
have asked LeasePlan which garages  were authorised  if he wasnt  sure. Hes not persuaded 
that the garage Mr M used to carry out the service  was approved  or meets the criteria 
required by LeasePlan. And he doesnt think its unreasonable of LeasePlan to charge Mr M 
£175, in this situation. 
Mr M feels this is unfair. He says hes already paid to have the car serviced. He provided 
evidence that was done and he shouldnt have to pay again.  He doesnt think  the value  of 
the car would have  been affected in any event - and he says the £175  LeasePlan has 
charged is too high.  He checked with some  of the garages that are authorised  by LeasePlan 
and they dont charge that much  for a service. He asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN10653242Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mr M feels strongly that LeasePlan has applied charges here unfairly. He got 
this car under  a hire agreement  and Ive considered that carefully. The hire agreement says 
(insofar as its relevant)  
7 Service, Maintenance and Repair: Your Obligations
7.1 You shall.:
7.1.2 keep the Vehicle properly serviced in accordance with the manufacturers  
recommended service schedule by an agent  approved by us and provide all necessary fluids 
and lubricants.[and  ensure].
7.2.3 accurate service  records are maintained at all times and that the approved  servicing 
and repair  agent  completes and stamps the vehicles service record  after each service;
any law or regulation  
10 Return, Inspection  and Condition of a Vehicle
10.1 Upon the expiration or on the termination  of the Term.if  requested, you must  
immediately pay us. .
10.6.2 the amount by which we reasonably think the value of the Vehicle has been affected 
due to any lack of evidence that the Vehicle has been serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations and the Vehicle has a properly completed and stamped
service book 
Im satisfied that Mr M was obliged to look after this car during the hire period and that 
included having  it serviced in accordance with the agreement terms. Like our investigator.  I 
am not persuaded that the service  Mr M arranged was undertaken by an agent approved by 
LeasePlan. On balance,  I think it looks  as if the garage he used  didnt update the cars 
service history properly and it was returned with a service light illuminated. Im not 
persuaded it was unreasonable of LeasePlan to charge Mr M for a service in this situation. 
I understand from speaking to Mr M that he contacted some of the garages  approved  by 
LeasePlan for servicing and he was told that this service would cost around £130. I asked 
LeasePlan about that and it says the amount charged for a first service varies - some main  
dealers charge more - up to £350.  
I am satisfied that Mr M should reasonably have been aware of his obligations in respect of 
servicing under the hire agreement. And I think it was open to him to check which  dealers 
were approved and shop  around to find the cheapest service,  if he wanted to. 
I accept different garages may charge different amounts for a service like the one required 
here. And I dont think its unusual to find a main dealer charges more than some  other  
garages. The £175 charge LeasePlan applied is less than half the average cost of the 
highest and lowest  service charges that Mr M and LeasePlan have referred me to. And, on 
balance overall,  I am not persuaded that its unfair  of LeasePlan to ask Mr M to pay this 
amount - in these  particular circumstances. 
I have not found  that LeasePlan has acted unreasonably here so I cant fairly require it to 
waive or reduce  the £175 charge. I realise  my decision is likely  to come as a disappointment 
to Mr M, as its not the outcome he wanted.  But, Mr M is not obliged  to accept what Ive said,  
Ref: DRN10653243in which  case it remains open to him to pursue this matter by other means should he wish to 
do so.   
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1065324