K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about a new car he acquired  on a hire purchase agreement  from BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS)  saying it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr K acquired a new car from BMWFS in December 2017 on a hire purchase  agreement.  
The cash  price of the car was £88,965. 
Mr K said that within two weeks of taking  possession of the car he noticed a noise  and got in 
touch with the supplying dealership. They suggested  he take his car to a different garage 
who was located  closer to Mr K, and he dropped the car off at this garage towards the end of 
January 2018.  This garage found there was an audible whine and replaced a tensioner  for 
the alternator belt and put in a new pump. 
After this work they said they found the noise was still apparent, but that the noise didnt 
occur when the drive  belt was removed. The garage said they approached another customer 
with the same car, who they asked to listen to the noise   and said that customer  told them 
his car didnt  have  the same noise. The garage told Mr K they were unable  to stop the noise 
or identify  the cause.
Unhappy Mr K raised a complaint with BMWFS in February 2018  asking to reject the car. 
BMWFS talked to the garage and consulted internally, before responding to Mr K saying that 
they couldnt provide a solution.  
So Mr K commissioned an independent  inspection on the car - which was done in early 
March 2018. By this point the car had travelled only 685 miles.  The engineer who completed 
the independent inspection said that an audible bearing/whine noise was present  within the 
cabin of the car. He recommended further investigation, but that the audible noise would, in 
his opinion, mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
This report was provided to BMWFS, who arranged for another inspection to be done  by one 
of their regional technicians towards the end of March 2018.  They  say the technician  found 
there was a noise,  but that it was production standard or a characteristic of the car. They  
also compared it with another  car of the same  age and found it to have  the same  noise.  
BMWFS said because they werent able to find a fault, there was nothing further they could 
do for Mr K.
Unhappy with BMWFSs response  Mr K brought his complaint  to our service in April 2018.
An investigator looked into Mr Ks concerns and upheld his complaint, saying they werent 
persuaded the noise was a characteristic of Mr Ks car and that it made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
The investigator recommended  that BMWFS should take back  the car, refund the deposit, 
refund 15% of the monthly payments and the cost of the independent  inspection  report  and 
pay £250 compensation.
BMWFS disagreed saying there  was no fault with the car and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the case.
Ref: DRN10928512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legislation  in this case is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies  a term into the 
supply contract that the car must  be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance 
provider, BMWFS is responsible for the quality of the car it provided under  the agreement. 
So Ive considered whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality.
The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the goods,  the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a 
car, the other relevant  circumstances  a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the cars history. The CRA also says the 
quality of the goods includes  their general state  and condition and other  things like their 
fitness for purpose,  appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects  of the quality of goods.
In considering whether the car was of unsatisfactory quality, Ive taken into account that Mr K 
acquired the car from brand  new for nearly  £90,000  and had only travelled approximately 
600 miles when he reported the problem.  With this in mind I think  it is fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect that it would be free from defects  or faults.  
The issue  I need to decide is whether what Mr K describes  as being a problem with the 
noise is a fault or a characteristic, and if it is a fault,  does it mean the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
BMWFS have provided information about  a test they had carried  out by a senior  technician  
who confirmed the noise was present, but said it was product standard. That technician 
also said that by increasing the revolutions  per minute (RPM) the noise decreased  by 50% in 
his opinion. He also said that there was no fault and the noise Mr K is hearing is a normal 
operational noise. So from what Ive seen  BMWFS  arent saying that there isnt a noise,  
theyre just saying that the noise is production standard and not caused by a fault with the 
car.
But Im also taking into account the evidence  of the first garage who looked  at the car. It was 
a franchised garage  and one recommended by the dealership for Mr K to take his car to. As 
such, Id expect that garage to have  some experience of this make and model of car. They 
attempted to locate  what was causing the noise and did some repairs to the tensioner for the 
alternator belt and put in a new pump   which  suggests to me that they thought  there was a 
fault or something  causing the noise that could  be addressed/repaired. I also note that they 
asked another  customer with the same car, whether his car made this noise  and their 
notes say he was adamant that his car didnt make the same noise. 
In addition, Mr K has provided  a report from an independent engineer. That engineer  
concluded there was an audible whine  from behind the dashboard, which  disappeared when 
the RPM were raised slightly  until the throttle  was released. And he noted that during a road 
test with moderate-light accelerating the noise identified disappeared within the cabin. He 
also noted that speeds up to 30mph were achieved with no noise being  audible, but upon 
slowing the car to 5mph and the engine idling, the noise was audible again  within  the cabin. 
The engineer said that in his opinion further investigation is strongly recommended,  and 
Ref: DRN10928513that the noise  may be due to poor insulation between the engine and firewall of the car or a 
fault present to the engine  or electrical system.  He concluded that the audible noise meant 
that he would deem  the car to be of unsatisfactory quality. 
Ive carefully weighed all this evidence up, and ultimately Im not persuaded that the noise in 
this car is a characteristic  of the model.  I think its most likely that its a fault in Mr Ks 
particular car that simply cant  be isolated and rectified by BMWFS. 
Based on the low mileage  that Mr K had done, and the fact that he reported the problem 
within days of taking  possession of the car  Im persuaded that this noise was present at 
the point acquisition and I havent seen anything that suggests its due to normal  wear  and 
tear or something that happened while Mr K had the car.
While Ive thought  about what BMWFS have told us, I dont think  a reasonable person would 
find this unexpected noise to be tolerable in a brand new car. All things considered,  I am 
satisfied that there is a fault with this car and that it was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point 
of supply. 
And as BMWFS are unable to identify  what is causing the noise, or find a way to stop it  I 
think its reasonable for Mr K to be able to reject the car and have his deposit returned.  
Mr K has asked  for all his payments to BMWFS to be refunded  along  with compensation for 
his insurance costs and time and effort hes spent trying to resolve  this problem with 
BMWFS. 
Mr K feels  BMWFS have  not handled  his complaint  well and not been co-operative. But any 
complaint about  a fault with a car will take some  time to try and resolve including getting 
inspections and testing  done, before the case  is brought  to our service. I havent seen 
anything that suggests BMWFS have unreasonably delayed addressing Mr Ks concerns. 
Also I havent seen anything in reviewing his complaint that suggests  to me that BMWFS  
have hidden evidence,  as Mr K suggested,   as theyve provided  all the information  that 
weve requested  from them.
But from what Mr K has told us, Im persuaded that the noise has probably been really  
frustrating and meant he has not had the driving  experience he expected  with the car, and 
this has impaired his overall use of the car. But Mr K wouldve had to pay something to stay 
mobile with regards to having an alternative  car and covering its running costs and insurance 
 so I dont think  its reasonable to refund all the money hes paid to BMWFS or to ask them 
to refund his insurance costs. Especially as BMWFS provided a courtesy car for some of the 
time that Mr Ks car was in for inspection.  
However, Mr K has provided  a recent  odometer  reading which  shows he has driven just over 
6,000 miles since he got the car in December  2017.  Whereas I can see that in the first 
month Mr K had the car he drove over 600 miles in one month. So Im persuaded that while  
Mr K still used  his car, it wasnt as often as he probably would have if the noise wasnt  
present. So Im recommending that BMWFS refund him 15% of all the monthly  hire purchase 
payments hes made towards his agreement. 
Taking everything into account  BMWFS  should  also pay Mr K £250  for the trouble and upset  
hes experienced, including having to return a new car to the garage on several different 
occasions for inspection  and testing.  
Ref: DRN10928514Mr K also paid for an independent  inspection and BMWFS should  refund Mr K for that cost 
of £199.00  if they havent already done so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right BMW Financial Services  
(GB) Limited should:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr K
refund  the deposit of £11,999.97 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement*
refund  Mr K 15% of the monthly  hire purchase payments he made  to reflect  his 
impaired use of the car and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  until the 
date of settlement*
refund  Mr K for the cost of the independent inspection report at £199.00 and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement* (if BMWFS  
hasnt already done so)
pay £250 in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience Mr K has experienced
* HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BMW Financial Service (GB) Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. BMWFS  must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1092851