K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Evergreen  Finance  London Limited (trading as Moneyboat.co.uk) lent 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr M took out three  instalment loans with Moneyboat between July 2016  and June 2017.  He 
borrowed £200 in early July 2016,  £250 in mid-July 2016 and £200 in June 2017.
Mr M says that if Moneyboat had carried out better checks, it wouldve seen that he had a 
number of other payday loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld in part. He recommended  
that Moneyboat  refund  the interest and charges  that Mr M had paid on loans two and three. 
And the adjudicator asked Moneyboat to remove any negative information  about the loans  
from Mr Ms credit file.
Moneyboat didnt reply  to the adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Moneyboat should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN19223812I think its important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
loan one 
It was early on in Mr Ms lending relationship and he declared  a monthly net income of 
£2,140. Moneyboat asked Mr M for details of his expenditure  and then increased the amount 
of credit commitments after looking at his credit  report.
Based on the information that Moneyboat held about Mr M it looked  as though he had a 
disposable income of £263. I consider that this was enough to say that he could sustainably  
afford the monthly  repayments of £126.
It follows that I dont consider it was unreasonable of Moneyboat to agree loan one.
loans two and three
Before agreeing loans two and three,  Moneyboat carried  out the same kinds of checks that it 
did for loan one. Although it appeared that Mr M had just enough disposable income to be 
able to afford the repayments, I dont think this meant that he could afford  them in a 
sustainable way.
I say this because  for loan two Moneyboat calculated  Mr Ms disposable income to be £156  
and for loan three it was £93. After making the monthly repayments  due on both loans, Mr M 
was only left with about £8 for loan one and just over £2 for loan two. If Mr M had any 
unexpected expenses  even very minor ones  hed have been left with no disposable 
income at all.
Based on the information that Moneyboat had about Mr Ms finances,  I dont think it 
shouldve agreed  loans two and three so Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about these loans.
Ref: DRN19223813putting things right  what Moneyboat needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on loans two and three;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and 
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Ms credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest.  Moneyboat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Evergreen Finance 
London Limited (trading as Moneyboat.co.uk)  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN1922381