K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss M says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss M has said she wasnt  told about  the PPI when she took out her card and she says the 
PPI wasnt explained.  She doesnt  believe she wouldve chosen  to take the PPI and shes  
told us it was mis-sold because, for one thing, she wouldve been OK without it.
Ive taken all this into account. But Ive also taken into account  that Miss M took out her card 
more than twenty years ago. So I wouldnt  expect  her to remember vividly all that happened 
around that time. With this in mind,  what Miss M has said isnt enough on its own to make 
me think FICL added PPI to her account  without asking or telling  her. And I havent seen 
anything else to make me think FICL did that. Also,  Miss Ms card application form had a box 
to tick if PPI is wanted. The box is ticked and Miss M signed the form.
Taking all this into account, what I have isnt enough  to make me think Miss M didnt  agree  
to the PPI or that FICL didnt give her a choice about it. But I acknowledge that this isnt what  
Miss M believes  or how she recalls  things.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure she got the information she needed to decide whether the PPI 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss M wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But from what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, Miss M wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the cover, so she couldve claimed on it if the circumstances 
arose. And from what shes told us, Miss M didnt have savings to help and wouldnt get 
much work pay if she were made redundant or was too sick to work. Shes told us her family 
couldve helped. But other peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change. With all 
this in mind,  taking everything into account I dont think  better information about  the PPI 
would have changed Miss Ms decision  to take out the cover.
In reaching my conclusions Ive taken into account all Miss Ms points, including  what  shes  
said about taking  the card for the discount offered. I acknowledge she is firmly of the view 
the PPI was mis-sold. But Ive explained  above  my reasons  for not reaching  that same  view. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN12680802my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1268080