K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed their Foreign Currency Account and 
converted their funds  into Sterling.
background
Mr and Mrs G are represented by a relative  in bringing their complaint but, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all submissions as having  been made by them directly.
Mr and Mrs G had a Foreign Currency Account (FCA) with HSBC.  It was a US Dollar 
account which they had held for many years. Following the launch of a new type of currency 
account, HSBC  made the commercial decision to wind down the FCA type of account. They 
wrote to customers who would be affected,  giving them notice that their accounts would be 
closed.
HSBC say they sent letters to Mr and Mrs G about  this in November and December 2017, 
setting out what  the process would be and giving Mr and Mrs G time to make  alternative 
arrangements. They  say the notification letters made it clear that the credit balance would be 
converted into Sterling  and a cheque issued upon  closure of the account.  HSBC say they 
have no record of Mr and Mrs G contacting them in response. So they closed the account  in 
January 2018  and issued  a cheque in Sterling  for the credit balance.  Mr and Mrs G received 
the cheque in February 2018 but they havent cashed it because  they dont have  a Sterling 
account and they want their money  to remain in US Dollars.
Mr and Mrs G say they didnt receive HSBCs letter of November 2017 advising of the 
forthcoming closure of their account. They did receive a letter from HSBC in November but 
that was about  tax status. They say that, when they received HSBCs December letter,  they 
thought the reference  in it to an earlier letter meant the tax letter.  Theyre  unhappy about the 
conversion of their funds  from US Dollars. They say the letters they received from HSBC  
made no mention  of the fact that their funds  would be converted into Sterling.
Our adjudicator thought that HSBC had acted fairly. But Mr and Mrs G didnt agree so they 
asked for their case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They  say theyre not aware of the 
basis on which HSBC can convert their funds from one currency to another.  They  want  
HSBC to return their funds to them in US Dollars and pay them  compensation for the 
distress they say the banks approach has caused  them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the FCA say that HSBC may close  the account for any reason 
by giving at least  two months written notice. HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs G more than two 
months before the account was closed. Im satisfied  that they were  entitled to close  the 
account and that they complied with the terms and conditions as regards notice. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I find that Mr and Mrs G didnt receive the letter  dated 
November 2017  about closure of the FCA. But I havent seen anything which suggests that it 
wasnt sent or that the wrong  address was used. So I cant  conclude that it was HSBCs fault 
that Mr and Mrs G didnt  receive that letter.
Ref: DRN14675862Mr and Mrs G did receive  the letter dated December 2017. But they thought it followed on 
from the November  letter about tax. So they sent the completed tax form to HSBC  and 
asked them not to close the account. They say they thought they had stopped the 
threatened account closure by doing  this. Its very unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G didnt 
receive the first letter about closure of the account and I can understand  how this led to 
some confusion. But I think its clear that the December letter  wasnt  about tax. 
I also think its clear  that it wasnt a threat to close the account  but rather a confirmation and 
reminder that the FCA would be closed on a particular date. Although, in their letter to 
HSBC, Mr and Mrs G asked the bank not to close their account, I dont expect HSBC to have 
acted on that. The letter from Mr and Mrs G related to the tax form. And HSBCs decision to 
close the FCA was a commercial decision affecting  all customers  with that type of account  
it wasnt an individual decision about Mr and Mrs Gs account.
The December letter referred  to detailed guidance  and information outlined  in the previous 
notification letter. So I think it should  have  alerted Mr and Mrs G to the fact that there  was 
something else going on and they hadnt  received the notification  letter.  The December letter  
gave a contact  telephone  number for Mr and Mrs G to call if they had any questions. I think it 
would have been reasonable in the circumstances for them to have called it. If they had 
done so, they would have  been told all about  the account closure.
Mr and Mrs G say they werent aware  that their funds  would  be converted  from US Dollars 
into Sterling. The letter HSBC sent in November 2017 explained that this would happen and 
how it would  be handled both for customers who held Sterling accounts and for those (like 
Mr and Mrs G) who didnt.  The follow-up letter didnt  mention the currency conversion. So, 
as Mr and Mrs G hadnt received the November letter, its fair to say they didnt have  
anything in writing  about it. But, as Ive said above,  I dont find that to be HSBCs  fault.  And if 
Mr and Mrs G had contacted HSBC on the phone  number  provided in the December letter,  
they would  have found out.
So I find that HSBC  gave enough notice  of their intention to convert Mr and Mrs Gs funds. I 
dont think they needed to do more  here.  Theyve  since explained what  Mr and Mrs G need 
to do to open a Sterling  account and a new currency account.  Theyve  also offered to send 
Mr and Mrs Gs funds to them electronically, rather than by cheque, if they prefer. I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances  and I wouldnt  expect them  to do any more.  
So, whilst I sympathise with the fact that Mr and Mrs G didnt receive the November letter, I 
dont find that HSBC have done  anything wrong. So Im not going to ask them  to do anything  
here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1467586