K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Elevate Credit International Limited provided to 
Mr S between February 2018 and May 2018.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr S complaint and thought the loans from loan four onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the key rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Elevate Credit  International Limited  should  
fairly and reasonably have done more  to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Elevate Credit International Limited 
was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
Ref: DRN13786912meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, bearing in mind the circumstances, a proportionate check for 
loans four and five would  have involved finding out about any other short-term lending  Mr S 
might already have  had elsewhere. Checking this would have shown Sunny that Mr S was 
borrowing from other short-term lenders at the same  time. In my view, this indicates he was 
having trouble  managing his money and he was unlikely to have been able to sustainably  
repay these  loans. So Im upholding the complaint about loans four and five and Sunny  
should put things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Ss credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should pay Mr S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1378691