K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is complaining  about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited because 
she says she was told over the telephone that shed be able to renew her life insurance  
policy when it came to an end. Shes since found out shell  need  to take a new policy and is 
unhappy with the amount that will cost.
background
In 2001, Mrs W took out a level term life insurance policy. It provided  cover of £43,000 for a 
monthly premium of £12. The policy was set up with a term of 17 years  and ended  in 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He didnt agree Mrs W was 
misled about what would happen when  her policy ended. He also explained the cost of life 
cover increases with age and thats  why shes being  asked to pay a higher premium.
Mrs W didnt accept the adjudicators assessment, saying she was told over the telephone 
that she could  continue with her policy.  She also remains unhappy  with the amount shes  
been quoted for a new one.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
Mrs Ws policy was set up to provide cover for a limited term, at the end of which it would  
expire. I note her original  complaint letter to Royal London confirms this was set out in the 
policy documentation. The only way Mrs W could continue with cover  now the policy  has 
ended is by taking  a new policy from those presently available  and priced according to her 
current age and possibly  also her state of health.
Royal London has provided recordings of two brief telephone calls it received  from Mrs W, 
one in 2016 and another  in 2017.  From these  calls, it seems clear she knew her cover was 
due to end in 2018. 
In the first call, when  she asked about continuing  with cover, Mrs W was told that would be 
possible and she could  contact Royal  London  again nearer the end date to discuss  this. The 
operator didnt  specifically explain she wouldnt be able to continue  with the same policy. But 
neither did Mrs W ask that specific question. This was a very brief conversation  that covered 
other issues as well and I think the response given to the actual question asked was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In the second  call, Mrs W again  asked about  what would happen after her policy ended. 
During this conversation,  Royal  Londons operator  told her she wouldnt be able to extend  or 
renew her existing policy and twice  said shed have to take a new one if she wanted  to 
continue with cover. Mrs W appeared to accept this and asked about how much a new policy  
would cost. The operator said this would depend  on the type of policy she took and that the 
costs of different  policies  vary. Im satisfied the answers given by the operator during this call 
were clear  and accurate.  And that if Mrs W had been left with a misleading impression of 
what would  happen  after what  she was told during  the first call, she shouldnt  have  been  in 
any doubt she wouldnt be able to continue with her policy after the second.
Ref: DRN17657342I understand Mrs W is disappointed by the amount shes been told shed need to pay for a 
new policy. But its ultimately  for Royal London to decide the premium  it charges  for this type 
of insurance based  on its assessment of the risks involved. As Mrs W seems to accept, the 
cost of life cover does  increase with age and I think thats the main reason a new policy  will 
cost considerably more  than what  she had before. If shes not happy  with the amount Royal  
London wants to charge,  shes  free to contact other insurers or an independent broker to 
discuss her options.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mrs W and leaves her in a 
potentially difficult situation. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Royal  London 
has honoured the terms of her policy. I also dont agree that it misled her about  what would 
happen when  it ended  or acted unfairly by wanting  to charge a higher premium  for a new 
one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1765734