K822xcomplaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in February 2003. The policy  was 
added to Mr Ts credit card account when he applied for the card in person. The policy cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think  Halifax  made Mr T aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Halifax doesnt have a copy of Mr Ts application form, but I have seen copies of the 
types of forms  that Halifax was using at the time.  Its provided a sample form in this 
instance and the form has a separate  section for insurance,  with PPI being  one of the 
insurance products that could be purchased. From  what  we know of Halifaxs  sales  
process at the time,  there  would  have been a discussion  about PPI and then a pre-
printed cross would appear in the box on the form to request the policy only if 
someone had agreed to take it.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ts recollection of 
the sale has faded. Looking at the evidence, I think its more  likely that the optional  
nature of the policy was explained. It seems  to me that Mr T probably decided  to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so
Moreover, as this was a monthly policy it wouldve appeared on Mr Ts monthly credit 
card statements  so I think he wouldve queried  it in 2003 if it had been added  to his 
account without  either  his knowledge or his consent.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr T, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. I say this because  Mr T 
wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy 
less useful for him, such as being self-employed  or having  a pre-existing medical 
condition. Whilst Mr T had some savings, he told us he didnt have any sick pay from 
his employer  so I believe the policy provided  him with a sufficient benefit,  which  
outweighed its cost.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted 
Ref: DRN17346392this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for him if he wasnt  working 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment as he had no work.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr T 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered  to give Mr T back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr T now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734639