K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained about her insurer Ecclesiastical  Insurance  Office Plc as it declined 
her claim for damage to her garden. Mrs M runs a bed and breakfast from her home and 
Ecclesiastical provides her insurance   it is a home  policy  as standard  but with an 
addendum amending and adding terms to cover the business use of the property. 
background
Mrs M bought the property in 2016.  A survey obtained at the time didnt detail the garden. 
The garden, at the rear of the property, slopes steeply to the river below and comprised a 
zig-zag sloped gravel path with steps  in places, a bench built into the slope and access  to 
the river bank.  Operating since 2016, the B&B gave guests access to the garden.  
In September  and October 2018,  three  storms occurred in the location  of the property. 
These were  named storms which caused widespread damage in many parts of the UK.
In November 2018 Mrs M, having noticed  significant damage to the garden and paths, made 
a claim to Ecclesiastical. It seemed the soil had shifted  causing  the supports for the paths to 
move, making the paths unstable and the gravel  had fallen  or been washed away  in places 
too. There was also significant damage  to trees and shrubs. Mrs M had obtained a quote for 
repair from G, dated 17 November 2018. This totalled  £5,190  and included some  
commentary and an addendum report setting out some  key reasons and areas for repair.  
She shared this with Ecclesiastical.
Ecclesiastical sent a loss adjuster to the property (Q). Q attended on 26 November 2018, 
took some  photos  and wrote a report.  Q said the garden had been poorly constructed and 
felt the slope had crept downwards  overtime with the way the paths had been constructed  
exacerbating the movement. Q consequently  felt the paths should have been created from 
much sturdier structures  brick and concrete, effectively creating retaining walls along  the 
downhill sides of the paths. Q later summarised  its opinion to Ecclesiastical as these paths 
were damaged long before [the October  storm].
Mrs M was unhappy with the loss adjusters conduct  during  the visit and during a call she 
had with Q afterwards.  When  Qs views  were  shared with her, she was disappointed and 
disagreed with its findings. She complained to Ecclesiastical, sending it a witness statement 
regarding the pre-storm condition of the garden. On 10 December 2018 it sent a surveyor  
R to the property to assess the damage. R issued a report  on 19 December 2018.
R felt that the main  reason  for the collapse of the path was its dilapidated  condition  and old 
age. R said there were rotten timbers and baseboards and the condition of the paths was 
such that they were  likely to have  failed imminently, even regardless of the storm. The report  
was shared with Mrs M. Mrs M said she was unhappy with the findings  she was offended  
by them,  felt they were  biased and that thered  been  a delay in the report  being  issued. 
In a final response Ecclesiastical  said it was maintaining its decision to decline the claim. It 
referred to the policy cover for storm and accidental damage, but drew  attention  to the 
general policy exclusions for; wear and tear and anything that happens gradually, as well as, 
faulty workmanship, materials,  specification  or design. It felt that both its adjuster and the 
surveyor had conducted themselves professionally. But it felt there  had been  some delays 
and, although  it also said these were unavoidable,  it offered £150  compensation for 
inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN17359602Mrs M was unhappy and asked Ecclesiastical to review matters, and also to consider a claim  
for the loss her business  had suffered as a result of the reinstatement work. There was some 
confusion about  whether  cover was in place  for this. But later Ecclesiastical explained that a 
successful claim  for this type of loss this was pursuant to the interruption  having been 
caused by damage  it was liable for. As it had declined her claim for storm damage,  which  
remained its position, Ecclesiastical said, her claim for business interruption  also failed. 
When Mrs M complained to this service  she told us the October  storm had caused  the 
damage to her garden.  Our investigator asked  Mrs M to provide  various  further information, 
including a cause  of damage  report from G. Having  considered all the expert evidence 
available, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that Ecclesiastical  had shown 
that the October storm wasnt  the main  cause of the damage. He didnt  think  it was liable for 
any lost income or vegetation damage. He wasnt persuaded that the loss adjuster or the 
surveyor had acted  unprofessionally or that the claim had been handled unreasonably.
Mrs M disagreed  she explained  how bad the October storm was; with roads cut off and 
river levels exceedingly high, with a lot of damage and loss occurring locally.  She explained 
that the riverbank held protected  status  and permanent structures  such as brick  and 
concrete retaining  walls could not be built there.  Mrs M said G had changed  its view of the 
garden once work started and had, in fact, re-used most of the timber  either in the garden 
or elsewhere. She said Ecclesiasticals  reports had been purposely designed to be negative, 
using a lot of subjective language. R had visited eight weeks  after the event  and following 
further sustained  periods  of heavy rain. She felt this had clouded  its judgement  about how 
the garden had been before the storm. Mrs M provided various  witness statements from 
people who had seen  the garden  before  October  2018. She said the work to garden meant 
she couldnt admit paying  guests. She felt the trees and shrubs cover  was unclear.
As Mrs M remained  unhappy her complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made.  
I asked our investigator to make  further enquiries. All relevant evidence  was then shared 
with both parties, and their comments were received and considered. Having done  so, I felt 
that Ecclesiastical had failed Mrs M. I felt that it should settle her storm claim, consider a 
business interruption  claim  and pay her £150  compensation.  My provisional  findings were:
Ive seen  the three pieces of expert evidence which Ecclesiastical had available  to it when it 
made its decision to decline the claim; namely Gs quote, Qs and Rs reports. If this had 
been the only detail available to it, I might have felt its decision was understandable. Broadly 
speaking, three experts, one of which was Mrs Ms own contractor, found issues  with the 
construction of the pathed  garden  and both of Ecclesiasticals  experts felt the garden had 
been suffering  damage for a long time such that the storm merely highlighted its condition.  In 
general terms its not unreasonable for an insurer to rely on expert  evidence  such  as this. 
But, to be fair to their customers, an insurer also has to listen  to them and be open  to 
investigating issues when  reasonable causes for concern  are drawn  to their attention. And 
I think Ecclesiastical failed  Mrs M in this respect here. 
Here Mrs M provided a witness statement about the condition of the garden  prior to the 
storm event. She pointed out that the surveyor had only attended eight weeks  after the 
original damage had occurred. Mrs M said that her (our) expert  considered that the storm, 
following the hot/dry summer  had caused the land to suffer  significant  damage.  She 
explained that a post the surveyor had said had snapped off due to rot had been forcibly 
broken in order to move  it out of the way. I dont  think Ecclesiastical gave due credence to 
Ref: DRN17359603any of these points  or really considered  that they might  cause  the three pieces of expert 
evidence mentioned above  to be bought  into question. Rather it blindly relied  on the expert  
advice and I think that was unreasonable in this situation. 
Since Ecclesiastical declined the claim in January 2019 much  more evidence  has been 
provided by Mrs M. I think if Ecclesiastical  had listened to Mrs M at that time she would have 
provided further information to it directly. Instead it was provided to us as part of our 
complaint investigation. Ecclesiastical has had chance to consider that information though  
and it has said it doesnt change its view. Ive then considered that evidence and 
Ecclesiasticals comments, as well as taking into account the evidence available  from the 
early part of the claim, in order to decide  if Ecclesiastical  should be settling the storm 
damage claim, and as I mentioned above,  I think it should.
Mrs M has provided further witness statements about the state of the garden  before the 
storm, along with some photos. The witnesses  are not experts   but I think  holidaymakers  
are well versed in spotting signs of concern  with the premises theyre staying at. I think if the 
garden had been in poor condition; with paths sliding away  the down the hill and unstable 
support posts  or dangerous steps,  or was otherwise dilapidated (as R has suggested),  
complaints would have been made.  And visitors  would  not have been  compelled to provide 
statements to Mrs M when  she asked  for them. I think they are reasonable evidence  of the 
pre-storm condition of the garden. As are the photos  they dont show the timber structures 
in great  detail but the garden  looks well kept, if mature. They  seem  to go hand-in-hand with 
the witness statements.
On the note of the timbers R said they were mostly rotten. But whilst its report  shows  
pictures of dark and wet timbers, I dont see anything indicative of rot. And I bear in mind that 
Qs report from its visit just a few weeks before didnt reference rotten timbers. Q felt that the 
materials used were  insufficient  but doesnt  seem  to have taken into account  Mrs Ms point 
that the garden is part of the river- bank which is a conservation area.  And it is clear that G 
did feel prepared and able to reinstate the garden  in a similar way to that which  had been 
there before  it wasnt felt necessary to substantially change its type and structure.
Gs quote did refer to improper materials  and construction of the damaged garden.  But G 
has explained to this service (and Im sure would have done so to Ecclesiastical if it had 
thought to ask) that its initial impressions of the mature but storm battered  garden changed 
once work  started. But that also one key concern never changed  the handrails were 
installed in an inappropriate way according  to G, with the curved grip to the side rather than 
on top, leaving a distinct edge facing upwards. That accounted, G said,  for most  of its 
concerns regarding poor construction.  But simply reinstating the same rails with the rounded  
face uppermost solved that problem. 
It is fair to say that this service most often gives more weight to testimony  received at the 
time of the issue being spoken  about,  than that which is given later.  But that doesnt  mean  
its fair to say that all later testimony should be discounted. Sometimes there is a reasonable 
explanation for accounts or views having changed. In this case  I think Gs explanation is 
plausible and I find its testimony credible. 
G does explain that the timber posts  were replaced. But that those removed were in good 
condition. I can see no reason to doubt  what G says in this respect, particularly not when,  as 
I said above, Ive seen no clear evidence of rotten  timbers being present in the garden in the 
aftermath of the storm.
Ref: DRN17359604Ive then thought about  everything Ive seen in light of the questions this service  usually asks 
when assessing  storm complaints.  
Was there a storm?  Clearly. 
Was the damage typical of storm damage?  Given  the nature and severity of this storm, 
I think the reasonable answer is yes.
Was the storm the main cause  of the damage in question?  I think it was, particularly as 
Ive not been convinced  that other issues affected the garden such as could reasonably  
explain its sudden collapse at the time of the storm. On balance  I think  the most likely 
cause of the damage was the storm.
  
Which means Ecclesiastical will have to settle  Mrs Ms claim for storm damage.  I understand 
that the reinstatement  work  cost Mrs M £5,190. Im going to require Ecclesiastical to pay 
that, plus interest*  from the date Mrs M paid it until settlement is made.
A successful  storm claim means  that Ecclesiastical, reasonably, has to consider a claim for 
Mrs Ms lost business. Whilst Ecclesiastical, due to a peculiarity of the way it runs its 
business, was not aware  of the business  interruption cover at the time the storm claim was 
made and considered, it has accepted  that Mrs Ms policy did include this cover. Whilst 
comments have been made about  the propertys habitability, the business  interruption cover 
does not require the home to be uninhabitable  for cover to engage. 
The business interruption  cover only requires that there is loss or damage to the property, 
otherwise covered by the policy, or a lack of access to the buildings on account of the same, 
either of which  have caused the business to be affected. Ive found that Mrs Ms property 
was damaged by storm and I accept that the reinstatement work meant access  to the 
property for paying  guests  was not possible.  On the face of it then Mrs M has a business 
interruption claim which I think Ecclesiastical  has to consider. I cant reasonably  say it must 
settle Mrs Ms claim in this respect  at this time though, as it will need  a chance to assess her 
loss and what it is liable for under the remaining policy terms. 
The policy does offer cover for damage to trees and shrubs  but not that which is caused by 
storm or flood. So, this aspect of Mrs Ms claim fails. I know Mrs M thinks  the policy wording 
is not clear but I disagree. I cant reasonably make Ecclesiastical offer or consider settlement 
for this damage. 
I can see that this whole situation  has caused Mrs M a lot of upset.  But Im not persuaded 
that Ecclesiastical really caused any delays, despite the fact I know it did offer £150 
compensation. Mrs Ms claim was passed to it by her broker  on 23 November, Q visited on 
26 November, R on 10 December and Ecclesiastical issued its final response  declining the 
claim on 10 January 2019.  There were  no unreasonable delays in my view.  I also dont 
agree with Mrs M that Q and R were biased and set about their assessments with negative  
intentions. Mrs M disagreed with their views, and some upset her, whilst  Ive found they were 
wrong, I cant reasonably  say they were wrong to share them. That was what  they were 
employed to do. Im also not persuaded it was unreasonable for Q to have ended the phone 
call with Mrs M after its visit. The two have different accounts of the call but taking  each at 
face value it seems the call was at least less than productive. For me to find fault with 
Ecclesiastical Id have  to be satisfied that Q and R acted negligently and/or unprofessionally 
and Im not. 
But, as I said above, I think the findings Ecclesiastical relied upon were wrong, and that 
Ecclesiasticals assessment of the findings,  in light of other  information  that was or could 
Ref: DRN17359605have been available to it, was flawed.  That caused Ecclesiastical to reach an incorrect 
decision and decline Mrs Ms claim. This caused Mrs M upset. But I bear in mind her upset 
and inconvenience  have been  mitigated somewhat because she was able to reinstate the 
garden anyway, and without any delay. Taking everything into account, I think £150  
compensation is fairly and reasonably due by Ecclesiastical. 
Mrs M was generally pleased with my findings. Ecclesiastical did not agree with them, 
raising a lot of objections.  One key one being  that Mrs M had always  told it that the damage 
began in September 2018. As reflected, it said, in two key contacts with her:
In an email of 29 November 2018  she said: Our surveyor [when buying the house] did not 
comment on [the garden] at all and it has given us no cause for concern until it started  to 
collapse with the first heavy rain in September and once it started  to go it was impossible to 
stop because  it was all of it at the same time. It could be that it had dried  out in the heatwave  
despite our watering efforts  and there  were  cracks  in the ground  we were unaware  of and 
then when the rain came  it became  unstable very quickly  and keeled  over with the lack of 
support for the posts and retaining boards combined with the weight of the wet vegetation.
In a call on 3 December  2018 the loss adjuster recorded: She says it was fine until 
September. Whole thing  keeled over.
I noted that when  Mrs M complained to us, her focus  had been on the October storm. 
I asked Mrs M for her comments  on these  two references. She said:
I don't understand  why this has been  singled out as it is completely correct and simply 
confirms storm damage as the cause of the collapse.  As detailed  in my document titled  
"Storm History  2016-18",  [two named  storms] were  the first to hit for 3 days from the 19th to 
21st of September and that was when the torrential rain started to move  parts  of the bank as 
the huge amount of water fell on the dry cracked  ground as stated. 
Given the change  in focus about the point  of time damage occurred, I reviewed the 
complaint afresh.  I shared  some  further findings with both parties. I said:
For me to make an award against an insurer I have to be satisfied that it failed  its 
policyholder in some way. Here I felt Ecclesiastical had failed Mrs M as it seemed to me it 
had relied blindly on the expert evidence it had gathered  without taking into account the fact 
that a witness statement  existed testifying to the condition of the garden immediately prior to 
the October  storm and that it hadnt  factored into its assessment that the weather in between 
that storm and its visits had been poor. In essence I felt it should  have investigated  the claim 
further before declining it and, if it had, further  evidence, which Mrs M had presented to this 
service, including  a number of witness statements, wouldve been provided  to it. I felt that 
the further evidence showed the October  storm was the most likely cause of damage  to 
Mrs Ms garden. Meaning that, in my view, Ecclesiasticals  decline of Mrs Ms claim was 
unfair and unreasonable.
A central  part of my previous findings was that the witness  statements provided  by Mrs M 
showed the garden was likely  in a good condition  before the named storm in October, which 
Mrs M had told us had caused  the damage  to her garden.  However, Ecclesiastical felt it was 
unfair that I had taken  this evidence at face value. And it also pointed  to Mrs M having  
initially said that the garden had begun to be damaged in September.  Mrs M has since 
confirmed that is correct  the damage  did begin in September. Unfortunately  for Mrs M this 
means I can no longer  rely on the witness  statements provided.
Ref: DRN17359606Id felt that any visitors who pay to stay somewhere would be reliable witnesses in respect  of 
whether a garden was dilapidated or not; particularly one which  slopes to a riverbank where  
its suggested by the insurer that paths have been falling away over the long term. All the 
statements provided by Mrs M suggested this was not the case. 
However, Mrs M told Ecclesiastical that the garden first became damaged following heavy 
rain in September when it started  to collapse, and once  it started  to go it was impossible  to 
stop.  Ive reviewed the weather records for September. The first heavy rain occurred on 
18 September. But there was no storm at that time.  I now note that two of the witness  
statements, testifying to the good  condition  of the garden, are from visitors who stayed at 
Mrs Ms home at the end of September 2018, after she says it began to collapse.  I cant  
reconcile their comments with those of Mrs Ms. The only reasonable conclusion is that their 
views are flawed. And that means  that I cant take any of the statements at face value  if 
the view of these  two visitors  cant be relied  on at face value, neither can any of the others. 
And my powers dont extend  to being able to cross  examine witnesses  under  oath in the way 
the courts can. 
As noted above,  the witness statements were a central part of my findings; essentially the 
evidence Mrs M had provided, taken altogether, made me think  the October  storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage she was claiming for. With the witness  statements  now being 
taken out of the equation Ive reviewed  the remaining expert  evidence  again. 
Ecclesiastical has always maintained that the garden had suffered over time,  rather than 
being devastatingly damaged in October  2018. Here I still think its difficult to accept that the 
surveyor found evidence  of rot when the contractor  said most timbers, upon  removal  were 
sound. However, upon review I note that the surveyor also felt a lack of strength in the 
timbers meant theyd been unable to withstand  the pressures of the soil over time.  The 
contractor said that, in his view, the ground movement was fresh, given the lack of dirt 
having built up in recesses. But I bear in mind that the core of this claim relates to heavy rain 
causing soil to move and gravel  to be washed away. And in reviewing the work of the 
contractor I see that he used quick drying  mix to secure the posts in the ground and that he 
reinstated the garden using more  substantial posts than had been in place before, 
particularly at certain points. So Im not persuaded that the contractors comments  or actions 
mean the surveyors opinion in this respect is likely wrong.
I understand how disappointing this will be for Mrs M. But her own comments  show that 
damage began occurring in September, the damage  kept occurring following heavy rain and 
was then exacerbated by the October storm. And Mrs Ms choice of words   collapse  is 
not indicative of some minor damage happening  first with the later storm having  a more 
devastating impact ie being the dominant  cause of the damage then claimed for. Gradual 
damage does not have  to be the result  of years of dilapidation,  perhaps indicated by rot, 
although that is the more  common understanding of the term. It can happen over a shorter 
timescale. I think, therefore,  the balance of the evidence shows  that Ecclesiasticals  view 
that the claim should be declined by reason of the damage likely  having occurred gradually 
rather than it being due to a one-off storm event,  was fair and reasonable. 
To clarify, the policy  offers  cover for damage which occurs accidentally as well as for that 
caused by a storm. Ecclesiastical, in its final response, explained that this still relates to 
damage which results from one-off events and isnt designed to offer cover for damage  
caused by the ordinary action of the elements. The policy,  as well as explaining what is 
covered, does set out that there are a number of types of damage which  the policy does  not 
Ref: DRN17359607cover. Included in that list is damage  which is caused by any gradual cause, or anything  
caused by the elements excepting that which is caused by a storm or flood. Given  what  Ive 
found above, I cant say that Ecclesiasticals decline of the claim under the cover for 
accidental damage  was unfair or unreasonable. 
Regarding trees and shrubs, I clarified  that the policy  states there is only cover  for damage 
to these items where the policy is in force for any other damage,  other than that caused  by 
storm or flood. I said my current findings mean  theres no cover in this respect for Mrs M. 
Likewise I explained  there was no cover  for Mrs Ms business  losses, because the cover for 
that is pursuant on insured damage having  prevented access to the property. And my 
current finding was that no insured damage  had occurred. I concluded that I think  
Ecclesiasticals decline  of Mrs Ms claim was fair and reasonable, Im not minded to make it 
do anything more.
Mrs M was understandably  upset  by my revised findings. She had concerns about the 
weather data my findings were based  on. She felt the witness statements all still had worth 
but drew particular attention to one provided by her decorator and one from Mrs W a 
business colleague and friend. Amongst other things Mrs M commented:  
there was not significant  rainfall in the September storms, they were  more wind based. 
it was the vegetation which had collapsed or rather  keeled  over with the wind.
the minor  damagewas wind damage  to the vegetationwe set to and cleared up
because  they had cleared up, the late-September guests were  still impressed.
but their clearing  up was not good enough to resist the unprecedented torrential rainfall 
caused by [the October storm].
once  it [the garden] started to go in October there was no stopping  it.
She said the fact of storms  occurring so close together was irrelevant when one storm 
clearly caused the damage. Mrs M also argued that gradual damage occurs slowly  over the 
long term.
Regarding the reconstruction of the garden she said the posts used  are mostly the same as 
those used before,  although they are square  not round. And the old posts  must have been  
strong enough, otherwise theyd all have snapped.  Any changes were  to prevent the 
possibility of future damage occurring given each year the weather is getting worse.
In respect of the business interruption cover  Mrs M noted there were many things that might 
prevent trading that werent  covered. She felt this was unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  that my revised findings,  following as they did from my initial provisional uphold, 
upset Mrs M. But, in light of Ecclesiasticals point that Mrs M had first said the damage 
occurred in September 2018, and Mrs Ms clear  and adamant statement to me that this was 
correct, I could not maintain a decision that Ecclesdaistical was liable for the cost of 
reinstating the garden on the grounds  that the October 2018 storm was the most likely  cause  
of the damage.
I understand that Mrs M has concerns about the weather data used. But it is this services  
general approach  to rely on data provided by nearby weather  stations.  That said if there is 
Ref: DRN17359608evidence of localised  weather, not recorded by the weather stations, we will consider that 
too. But often  the evidence available  regarding local weather is not persuasive.  I dont doubt 
that there  were two storms in September 2018  the met office confirms  this; one which  was 
named on the 18 September  but impacted the UK on 19 September and one which was 
named on 20 September and hit on 20  21 September. And that these  were  active  in the 
location of Mrs Ms property. But Mrs Ms comment to Ecclesiastical when making  her claim 
was that it was the first heavy rain in September 2018 which began the damage to the 
garden. Heavy rain by itself does not constitute a storm  and heavy rain did fall in the location  
of Mrs Ms property  in September 2018 before the storms arrived.
I understand Mrs Ms explanation that the garden  was tidied following the first damage which 
was minor. But Im not persuaded I can put much weight on that explanation when it has 
only been provided after my revised findings  were  issued.  And when, prior to making  those 
findings, Mrs M told me something  quite different. At that time she confirmed the collapse 
began in September 2018 due to rain which fell as part of the storms. She didnt say then 
that those storms were only wind storms, causing only minor damage to vegetation.
I appreciate that situations can get confused over time. But that really  is the overriding 
difficulty for me here. Mrs M didnt realise  she could claim for the damage in her garden until 
November 2018.  Apart from some  photos  Mrs M says were  taken  in October 2018, there is 
no independent,  reliable record of the state  of the garden between September and 
November 2018,  when Ecclesiastical began investigating the claim and Mrs M appointed her 
contractor.
As explained in my provisional findings,  I was initially compelled by the witness statements  
Mrs M provided.  But their reliability  came  into question  when  it became apparent that two of 
them had visited and seen the garden  at the end of September 2018   after, as Mrs M had 
confirmed to me, the collapse had begun. Thats  not to say I think their integrity  is in doubt  
rather that its possible they did not notice  the signs of collapse as anything  to be unduly  
worried about. Likewise  general comments from the guestbook written by guests staying  in 
October 2018, dont  add anything. Neither the statement provided by Mrs Ms decorator nor 
by Mrs W evidence when they last saw the garden  prior to its collapse. 
Whilst we might take a view that a series of storms or bad weather having occurred wont  
matter if were satisfied that one storm caused  the damage  I cant be satisfied here that the 
October storm was the main cause of the damage. And whilst Mrs M might at one point have 
liked me to believe  that the storms which occurred on 19  21 September  2018  were the 
culprit, she has recently sought  to dispel that idea,  stating they were only wind storms which 
caused just minor damage to vegetation. 
I think there is a distinct difference in the properties of square posts as opposed to half round 
ones. Im also satisfied that the new posts were  even doubled up at points in the 
reconstructed garden.  Im not persuade that the original  posts,  if they had not been strong 
enough, should/would have broken. 
Im not persuaded that for damage  to have occurred gradually it has to be over a long 
period. Gradual is indicative of something not occurring suddenly,  as part of a one-off  event.  
And it is the latter which policies of insurance offer cover against. 
It is regrettable that this is not the outcome Mrs M had hoped  for, and my provisional findings 
gave her cause to think she would achieve.  But I have to assess the complaint against the 
evidence received at every stage of our process.  On this occasion, as explained, the 
Ref: DRN17359609commentary about damage having  first occurred  in September, and Mrs Ms confirmation  
that this was indeed correct, meant  my view of the complaint changed. I remain of the view 
as set out in my revised  findings, and added to here in my final decision, that Ecclesiasticals 
decline of Mrs Ms claim for damage to her garden was fair and reasonable.
The business interruption  cover which Mrs M benefits from does not offer cover for all 
instances which might  cause a business  to close. But that is not unusual. All insurance 
policies are restrictive in one way or another. The cover in question  here offered by 
Ecclesiastical is similar  to many I see in policies which cover businesses, small and large. If 
I was satisfied that Ecclesiastical was liable under the policy  for the damage  which  occurred 
to Mrs Ms garden then the cover offered in the business interruption  section would apply. 
But, as explained,  Im not satisfied that is the case.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ecclesiastical Insurance 
Office Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1735960