K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed  by
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance (CBMF),  was not of
satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the vehicle and cancel the agreement.
background
Mr C tells us the vehicle was supplied in March 2018 but since  then its been in for repairs  on 
several occasions. He says the repairs havent  been  successful  and at the time of making 
this complaint, in August 2018, it had once again broken down.
CBMF said it had arranged to have the vehicle independently examined by "D", a company. 
It said the report indicated  that earlier faults - oil leaks - were  no longer present. But the 
report identified a fault with the cooling system.  The vehicle had no visible coolant when 
examined and the expansion tank pressure cap had been replaced with a temporary fuel 
cap. There was also a bolt missing from the thermostat housing. It said the report concluded 
the faults with the cooling  system were  not related to earlier repairs. And based on the time 
elapsed and mileage  covered would not have been present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 November  2018  in which I indicated 
my intention not to uphold  the complaint. Since  then Ive not received any additional 
comment or evidence from either  party. In those circumstances I see no reason  to alter my 
provisional view which is largely  repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C has experienced a lot of frustration and inconvenience with this vehicle. And 
Im sorry  hes had to go through this. Unfortunately, its an unavoidable risk with motor 
vehicles that something  might go wrong.  And with older, high mileage vehicles that risk is 
increased.
At the time Mr C acquired the vehicle it was over five years old and had covered about  
67,000 miles - which is above average. In April, the month after Mr C acquired the vehicle, it 
needed substantial  repairs  as a result of an oil leak. And Mr C says this has reoccurred on 
several occasions. Whilst Ive not seen any job sheets other than those from the April 
repairs, Ive no reason to doubt what Mr C says. And CBMF havent disputed  this either. 
But when the vehicle broke  down  again in July CBMF  had it inspected  by D as Mr C believed  
there was a fault with the prop shaft  and an oil leak.
D reported the vehicle had by then covered just over 77,500  miles.  And it found  no evidence  
of any oil leaks. And only normal  wear  and tear was found on the prop shaft.
But D also reported  there was a fault with the cooling  system. It said the cooling system 
expansion tank pressure cap was missing  and had been replaced with a temporary  fuel cap. 
Further, there was no visible  coolant in the system and there was a missing bolt at the 
cooling systems thermostat housing.
Ref: DRN18595642It concluded the faults with the cooling system were not linked to previous repairs.  And due 
to the time elapsed  and mileage covered it said they would not have been  present at the 
point of supply.
Whilst I dont apply  the law directly I do take it into account. And under present legislation  
CBMF is responsible for the vehicle  being  of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply. And 
faults which occur within  the first six months  after supply are presumed to be present at the 
point of supply  - unless  its established  otherwise.
The faults identified  with the cooling system by D obviously occurred within the first six 
months, but on a balance  of probabilities it seems to me unlikely  they were  present at the 
point of supply.
D pointed to there being no coolant  visible in the cooling system and to the coolant  pressure 
cap having been replaced by temporary  fuel cap. Its a reasonable inference that these two 
facts are related. And they seem more likely to be matters of vehicle maintenance. Its 
inherently improbable the vehicle could  have travelled over 10,000  miles, from the time of 
supply to the date of Ds inspection, in this condition. Theres  no direct mention of the cooling 
system problem or the missing pressure  cap prior to Ds report.
Were an evidence  based  service  and Ds report is accompanied by a statement of truth and 
comes from an industry recognised and widely used inspection  company. Im therefore 
inclined to rely on the reports  findings  - particularly in relation to the factual condition of the 
vehicle.
In summary,  I think its more likely the cooling system issues were the result of inadequate 
regular maintenance, rather  than due to an existing fault with the vehicle at the point of 
supply. As such,  I cant reasonably say that CBMF should be responsible  for the required 
repairs.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1859564