K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle  Buck) irresponsibly lent to him. 
Background
Between February 2018 and October 2018,  Mr S took out three  loans from Uncle Buck.  His 
borrowing history is as follows:  
Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
20/02/2018 25/07/2018 6 £300.00 £84.41
01/08/2018 13/09/2018 6 £400.00 £130.30
29/10/2018 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £65.27
As set out above, it appears to me that there is an outstanding balance  in respect of loan 3. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Uncle Buck  should  have agreed to lend loans 2 and 3 to Mr S. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with that view.  It reiterated  its decision  making process and said that 
its checks were  vigorous and robust.  
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN10027042refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Mr S has not disputed what our 
adjudicator said about loan 1 and so I have not considered this borrowing  further.  
Turning to loans  2 and 3, as I said above, early  in the lending  relationship,  I wouldnt 
necessarily expect Uncle Buck to undertake  a full review of Mr S financial circumstances. 
But I would expect it consider in full the information it had obtained in respect of Mr S 
applications. In this case, it had undertaken a credit check and so it should have taken 
account of the information  set out in that credit  report  before deciding whether to agree Mr S 
borrowing. 
Mr S declared his expenditure to be £800  per month when  he applied for loans  2 and 3. 
From the credit  report  obtained in August 2018, I can see that Mr S had a number of payday 
loans. Upon considering that report, Uncle Buck would have seen that Mr S expected next  
payments in the following  month  would have  just over £400.  This is considerably  more  than 
that which was declared  on Mr S budget.  It is also similar to the £400 Mr S borrowed from 
Uncle Buck.  In addition  to that, in October 2018  when Mr S borrowed £200 from Uncle Buck,  
his loan repayments that month for other  short-term  lenders would have been around  £170. 
With all of this in mind, from the information  it had, I think Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that Mr S was using  his borrowing  to repay  debts  to other high cost short-term  lenders. On 
that basis, I cannot say the loans were sustainably  affordable. And so I agree with our 
adjudicator that this complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 2 and 3. Uncle  Buck will 
need to take action to put things right.  
putting things right 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr S loans 2 and 3. 
It appears there is an outstanding balance on loan 3. If that is the case, if Uncle  Buck has 
sold that debt,  it must buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps.  If it is 
Ref: DRN10027043not able to buy the debts  back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results set out below:  
a)Uncle Buck must add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all uphdle loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  that has already been  refunded;
b)It must  calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr S which  
were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date when the complaint  is settled;
c)Uncle Buck must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they 
were repayments of the principal  on all outstanding  loans. If that results in Mr S 
having made overpayments,  Uncle Buck must  refund those overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date those overpayments 
arose, to the date the complaint is settled. It must  then refund the amounts calculated  
in paragraphs  (a) and (b) and then move  to paragraph (e); 
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) can be used  to pay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus, that surplus must  be paid to Mr S. If there is still an outstanding 
balance, Uncle Buck should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. It 
must not pursue outstanding balances of principal it has already written-off;
e)Uncle Buck must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit  file in 
relation to loans  2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I have upheld this complaint in respect of loans 2 and 3. I require Uncle  Buck to comply with 
the above putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1002704