K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Greenlight  Credit Ltd (trading  as Varooma)  lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued earlier this 
month. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold  the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Miss W has said that she 
accepts my provisional decision. Varooma  has provided us with some comments. Although  
I am only summarising here what Varooma has said, I have considered  its entire response 
carefully before writing  this decision.
Varooma accepts that it could have done  better  checks before it gave the loan to Miss W. 
But it doesnt think the redress I have proposed is fair. It points out that Miss W has made no 
repayments at all on the loan, so its only repayment of the principal it lent has been what it 
received from the sale of the car at the auction. But in addition it says that it has incurred 
fees for the repossession  and used its own staffs time in dealing  with Miss Ws failure  to 
repay what she owed. It says the car was offered for sale at four separate auctions  and only 
a single bid was received.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not persuaded 
that I should change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But I would like to 
respond to Varoomas comments on the redress I am directing.
I have no doubts  that from the information  Varooma has provided it will lose money on this loan, 
both in terms of the redress it will need to pay to Miss W and the fees and time it has spent  on 
the repossession. But those arise  as a direct  consequence of the incorrect  decision it reached to 
provide the loan to Miss W. If it had done  better  checks it wouldnt have agreed the loan. I cant  
see that it is fair or reasonable to expect Miss W to pay part of the cost of Varoomas  mistake.
As Varooma will be aware,  the price achieved for a vehicle at auction is usually less than 
what might  be assessed as its fair value. And, as is the case  here, it might sometimes  be 
difficult to sell vehicles. But I think it is entirely  right that Miss W should receive 
compensation for her vehicle equivalent to what it might cost her to replace  it. And that can 
be fairly assessed by reference to industry  data. Ultimately Miss W didnt choose for 
Varooma to exercise its entitlement  to repossess the vehicle.
putting things right
I dont think Varooma should  have agreed to lend to Miss W in December 2018. I think it 
reasonable that Miss W should repay the principal  amount of £1,500 that she borrowed. But I 
dont think she should pay any additional interest  or charges. Varooma has repossessed  and 
sold Miss Ws car. I think  a fair value for that car is as I set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN11852702So to put things right Varooma should;
Add up any payments  that Miss W has made towards the loan, together  with the fair 
value (of £2,036) for Miss Ws vehicle that was repossessed.
Deduct from that amount the principal  (of £1,500) that Miss W was lent.
Repay the difference to Miss W.
Pay interest on this amount of 8% simple  a year from the date the car was repossessed 
to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse  information recorded  on Miss Ws credit  file in relation to the loan
Pay an additional sum of £150 to Miss W in respect of the trouble and upset shes  been  
caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Greenlight Credit  Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11852703EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss W complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading  as Varooma) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Miss W was given a single  loan by Varooma.  She borrowed £1,500 in December 2018 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 36 monthly  instalments. The loan was secured against Miss Ws car. Miss W found it 
difficult to make the repayments on the loan almost immediately, and no repayments have been 
made. In April 2019 Varooma took possession  of Miss Ws car on which the loan was secured. The 
car was sold at auction in June 2019. The proceeds of the auction were  insufficient to clear  Miss Ws 
loan so a balance remains outstanding.
Miss Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  the checks 
Varooma did before agreeing the loan had been sufficient.  And he thought that better checks  would  
have led to Miss Ws application for the loan being declined. So he didnt think  Varooma  should  have 
lent to Miss W and set out some steps that the lender needed to follow  to put things right.
The price that Miss Ws car raised at auction  was less than our adjudicator thought  the car was worth 
based on some industry valuation data. So he asked Varooma to substitute the auction proceeds for 
the average value of the vehicle at the time it was repossessed. Since  that was greater than the loan 
Miss W had taken he asked Varooma to pay the difference to Miss W, together with £150 to reflect  
the trouble and upset shed been  caused.  
Varooma didnt agree. It said that its records from the time showed that Miss Ws car was in a poor 
state when it was repossessed. So it didnt  think the valuation our adjudicator  had placed on the car 
was fair. It instead offered  to write  off the whole  of Miss Ws remaining loan balance, but didnt think  
any further compensation was due to her. Miss W didnt accept that offer. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Miss Ws complaint.
Varooma has accepted our adjudicators conclusion  that is shouldnt have  offered this loan to Miss W. 
So I dont intend to examine that aspect  of the complaint  in any great detail. But, for completeness 
I will record that I agree  with what our adjudicator said. I dont think  that the checks Varooma did 
before agreeing the loan were sufficient. And, like our adjudicator, I think that better checks  would  
have shown Varooma the very real problems that Miss W was facing  managing her money. I dont 
think that, had it seen  that information, a responsible lender would have concluded that Miss W could 
repay what she owed in a sustainable manner.
So what is now left is for me to decide what is fair and reasonable  for Varooma to do in order to put 
things right. That matter  is complicated given that Varooma repossessed and sold Miss Ws car on 
which the loan was secured.  I dont,  in this decision,  make any criticism  of that repossession. I havent 
seen anything  to make  me think Varooma acted unreasonably in repossessing  the car when Miss W 
failed to make  the payments  she had agreed. But since I have  now concluded that the loan shouldnt  
have been agreed, it follows that I dont think it was fair for Miss W to be deprived of her car.
Ref: DRN11852704Varooma has provided us with evidence  of the selling  price  of Miss Ws car at auction, and the 
proceeds it ultimately received from the sale. And it has also provided  us with a copy of the report that 
was completed  by its agent when  the car was repossessed. Miss W has signed that report so it 
seems likely it is a fair reflection of the condition  of the car at the time.  It details a number of faults 
with the car. Specifically it records  that;
The engine  service light was on
There was a large scratch on the wheel arch
There was a crack on the bonnet
There were  scratches  on the left-hand side
Mrs Ws car was relatively old. It was around 10 years old at the time and had covered over 
132,000 miles. So I think it would be reasonable to expect a degree of wear  and tear on the vehicle. 
But given the information I have recorded above, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the car 
was in an average condition  when  it was repossessed.
Using some  industry standard data I am able to determine  what  value might reasonably be placed on 
Miss Ws car, given its age and mileage,  at that time. That data provides values for the vehicle based 
on it being  Clean, Average  or Below. I think that the most appropriate valuation here would be 
that of Below. And for Miss Ws vehicle that valuation  would be £2,036.  That is considerably more  
than the auction proceeds of £1,032.20 that Varooma  realised. I think that the higher value is what  
Varooma should use when assessing the fair compensation  that is due to Miss W.
Whilst I dont  think the repossession in itself was unfair, it only came about as a result of the incorrect 
decision that Varooma reached  to give the loan to Miss W. Miss W has explained to us the great  
inconvenience and expense being without a vehicle has caused for her and her family. So I think it 
right that I ask Varooma  to pay some additional  compensation to Miss W in respect of the trouble and 
upset shes been caused.
Ref: DRN1185270