K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Europ Assistance S.A.s decision  to refuse his claim and cancel 
his vehicle hire insurance policy.
Reference to Europ includes its agents.
Background
Mr B had a vehicle hire insurance policy which provided him with cover, up to a limit of 
£6,000, for hire cars in the event they were damaged. Mr B was involved in an accident in a 
hire car abroad. The car was a total loss and, as he hadnt taken  out the hire companys 
collision damage waiver  (CDW) the hire company asked  Mr B to cover its losses,  which  
came to around $30,202. Mr B claimed on his hire car policy.  Europ turned down his claim 
and cancelled his policy.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. Our investigator  didn't think  
Europ had dealt  with Mr B's claim fairly so she said it should:
overturn the policy  cancellation and deal with the claim up to the policy limit of 
£6,000, subject to the deduction  of any policy excess;
remove the policy cancellation and any fraud markers from any internal or external 
databases;
pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
because of Europs  actions;
deal with the hire car company's claim from Mr B for loss of use of $280;
deal with the hire companys claim for towing up to the policy limit of £500;
on receipt of evidence of payment from Mr B, add interest to its settlement either at 
8% a year simple or - if higher  - the interest  Mr B can evidence he paid on a credit 
card or similar.
Europ didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr B had his accident in August 2018. At that point he said he realised that his policy 
wouldn't cover the full loss being  claimed  by the hire car company. So, in September 2018,  
as he had further hire car bookings already in the pipeline - which  hes provided evidence  of 
- he decided to increase  the cover on his policy by buying Europs CDW cover.  That 
increased the cover on his policy to £50,000. When doing so Europ made it clear that the 
enhanced cover would only apply for claims from September 2018  onwards.
Mr B then submitted his claim for the accident  the previous month. When submitting his 
claim he said the value  of it was around  $30,202.
Europ refused to pay Mr Bs claim.  It said hed tried to make a fraudulent  claim. Essentially 
its implied that Mr B was trying to use artificial  means to hoodwink  it into paying him $30K - 
when he only had entitlement  to £6,000  - by persuading  it that the CDW cover that applied 
from September 2018 onwards should apply to his claim  for the previous month.
Ref: DRN19087862Fraud is a very serious allegation, it goes to someone's  integrity, it alleges a criminal act and 
might expose the individual(s) concerned to the risk of criminal investigation and 
prosecution. And it can have serious  repercussions for their ability to obtain insurance  for the 
rest of their lives. But, my role isn't to decide whether or not Mr B's committed  fraud  only a 
court can do that. My task is to decide whether or not Europ has treated  Mr B fairly  and 
reasonably. And I don't think it has.
In this case when  Europ asked Mr B the amount being claimed  Mr B answered with the full 
amount that the hire company was asking  him for. In response to Europs  questions  Mr B 
said that he simply transposed the amount that the hire company was claiming from him. He 
said that he knew that any settlement would be limited to the maximum his policy  covers  him 
for. And I find that explanation  reasonable.  
Europs also told us that when it asked Mr B to send it his policy schedule he sent it the most 
recent schedule which  included the limit for the CDW rather  than his original schedule. But 
Europ had recently sent that schedule to him so it was likely or be near to hand. And in any 
event, I think Mr B would  have been well aware that insurance companies like Europ keep 
records of the policies that they issue and the levels of cover theyve offered and that it 
would refer to that when  settling his claim. So Im not persuaded that Mr B set out to 
deliberately mislead  Europ. And I don't think its decision to refuse Mr Bs claim as it did was 
fair or reasonable.
It follows that I think it should settle  Mr Bs claim subject to the excesses and limits of his 
policy. Mr Bs policy includes entitlement to a contribution towards  towing up to a limit of 
£500, and it appears  that the hire companys  costs for towing were higher than that so Europ 
should cover  the claim for towing up to the policy limit to £500. Similarly Mr Bs policy  also 
covers loss of use and the hire company  has charged Mr B $280 for that. So I think Europ 
should cover  that claim as per then terms of Mr Bs policy.  It should add interest  as 
appropriate to its settlement  of Mr Bs claim as set out below. Also Im aware that this claim 
has been the source of distress and inconvenience for Mr B so I think  Europ should pay him 
£100 compensation. Also, Europ  should remove the record that it cancelled  Mr Bs policy,  
and any fraud markers, from internal and external  databases.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Europ Assistance S.A. to:
deal with Mr Bs claim up to the policy limit of £6,000, subject to the deduction of any 
policy excess;
remove the policy cancellation and any fraud markers from any internal or external 
databases;
pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
because of Europs  actions;
deal with the hire car company's claim from Mr B for loss of use of $280;
deal with the hire companys claim for towing up to the policy limit of £500;
on receipt of evidence of payment from Mr B, add interest to its settlement either at 
8% a year simple or -  if higher  -  the interest  Mr B can evidence he paid on a credit 
card or similar.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Ref: DRN19087863Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1908786