complaint 
Miss G complains that the used car she acquired  via a hire purchase with FirstRand  Bank 
Limited (trading as "MotoNovo") wasn't  of satisfactory quality.
background
 In September 2017 Miss G acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase agreement  
with MotoNovo. The car was seven years old and had a mileage  of around 71,300.
Although the car had originally passed  an MOT in March 2017 the dealership decided to 
re-test it in order to provide a full 12 month MOT  when  it was sold.  The car underwent an 
MOT test at the beginning of September 2017, which  it failed due to the strut having  
excessive movement,  the rear brake binding the outside wheel,  and issues with a 
headlight and registration plate lamp.
MotoNovo says repairs to these faults were carried out two weeks later, but the car 
wasn't re-tested for an MOT  at that time.
Miss G acquired the car around  two weeks after it had failed the MOT. MotoNovo  says  
that Miss G was told the car needed to have a new MOT test and that would take an 
extra day to arrange.  It says Miss G said she was in a hurry and agreed to take the car 
and bring it back for the MOT when  she had more time, as the original one was still 
valid.
Miss G disputes she was aware the car had a recently failed MOT. She says the 
dealership told her they would do a new one as part of its customer service and this 
would provide the car with a full 12-month MOT.
Miss G took the car, and returned it in October  2017, when  it passed its MOT.
Miss G says that she had problems  with the car within a short time of acquiring it. She 
reported a number  of problems to the dealership  about wheel noise, the vehicle  
shuddering and the car cutting out. She says that in the first six months repairs were  
carried out to the car's brakes, battery, back plate and particulate sensor.
Miss G says the car continued to feel unsafe and driving it was a poor experience. In July 
2018 Miss G contacted MotoNovo and said she wanted to terminate  the agreement  as the 
car had gone into limp mode and was undrivable. MotoNovo offered  to voluntarily  
terminate the agreement  but Miss G was required to pay 50% of the credit  costs. Miss G 
declined to do this, and a complaint was opened by MotoNovo.
Miss G was advised by the dealership that the car needed an oil service, but she 
disagreed. MotoNovo said that in order to investigate  if past repairs had failed, or 
whether there'd been a fault at the point of sale, it would need an independent  
engineer's report.
Miss G says she looked  into getting an independent report,  but was told it would  only be 
visual and wouldn't strip the car. She said she was concerned that this would be a waste  
of money if the issue with the car was electrical. She arranged instead for the car to have  
a diagnostic  report prepared by the manufacturer.
Ref: DRN1531492The diagnostic  report stated that the car's software was outdated; the back  plate  was 
scraping off the brake disc; and there was leaking  from the radiator and intercooler pipe.
MotoNovo again requested that Miss G arrange  for the car to be independently  
inspected, and said without such a report there was no evidence it hadn't been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Miss G complained to this service.  Our investigator recommended that Miss G's 
complaint should be upheld. She said she accepted  that Miss G hadn't agreed  to take 
the car with a failed MOT,  and that she hadn't known about the September 2017 MOT  
when she'd acquired it.
Our investigator said she thought the evidence  showed the car had had repairs in the 
first six months but that these hadn't been  successful. So she thought  the car hadn't  
been of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale.
In January 2019 Miss G arranged for some  repairs to be carried out in order to have the 
car MOT'd and taxed.  However  the repairs hadn't  fully fixed the car. The investigator  
noted the car had been used by Miss G and so recommended  that MotoNovo  could  either  
have it fully inspected to show  it was of satisfactory  quality at the point  of sale,  or 
alternatively allow Miss G to reject it.
If the car was rejected,  then MotoNovo was to:
End the agreement  with nothing further  to pay
Collect  the car
Refund  Miss G 30% of her monthly payments under  the agreement together with 
8%interest as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to her by 
the issues and the number of repairs required by the car
Refund  the most recent repairs undertaken in January 2019 plus 8% interest
Ref: DRN1531492MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators  view. It said when the car was sold it had a 
valid MOT in place from March 2016 and that Miss G had agreed to take the car 
"pending repairs." It said the MOT failures had all been fixed  before Miss G had acquired  
the car.
It said the current problems with the leaking  radiator/coolant had arisen  16 months  after 
Miss G had acquired the car and so weren't faults that had arisen  at the point of sale.  
These could  be due to wear and tear, and so MotoNovo wasn't liable for them.
The complaint  was passed to me as the parties couldn't  agree.  I issued  a provisional  
decision  along  the following  lines.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods that are supplied must be of "satisfactory  
quality," "fit for purpose"  and "as described". When deciding the meaning of "satisfactory  
condition" for a used  car then account needs to be taken of its age and mileage.
I'd seen that at the point of sale the car was a little over seven years old and had a 
mileage of about 71,000, which was close  to the average mileage for a car of that age. 
Miss G had bought it for a little under  the guide price  for a car of that age and model. I 
appreciated with a car of that age that, unlike a new car, some issues with wear and tear 
would be expected to arise over time. However,  it shouldve  still been fit for purpose.
MotoNovo said that at the time the car was sold it had a valid MOT in place,  as the original 
MOT it passed in March 2016  was still valid. It also said Miss G was fully aware  the car 
had failed  an MOT in September  2017 and was told the repair work highlighted  by that 
had already  taken place.  And it was agreed she'd  bring the car back  for the MOT  to be 
redone.
Miss G said she wasn't aware  of the failed MOT, and had been told the new MOT was 
part of the dealership's  service.
I agreed with our investigator  that it seemed unlikely Miss G would've taken the car 
knowing  it had failed an MOT. I didn't  think many people wouldve  understood  that the 
original MOT wasn't  invalidated by a second test. I also thought most people  wouldve 
been  concerned to hear that a car theyd  intended to buy had failed a roadworthy test. I'd 
seen  no evidence that Miss G was shown  that the repairs  had been undertaken, and I 
thought  she would've wanted  that if shed  agreed to take the car and then bring it back 
later for the test.
I'd seen the paperwork that MotoNovo  said showed the repair work was undertaken. Its 
three "Parts Invoices" together with a copy of the failed MOT. These documents have  
handwritten ticks and a note on one page saying  "MOT repairs". But I didn't think  this was 
particularly clear  in proving that the repairs had been undertaken on the date shown for 
the invoices.  But I was aware  the car had passed an MOT in October 2017, so it was 
likely it was repaired at some point before that.
Ref: DRN1531492K821x#15MotoNovo said the car went  straight to the MOT test when brought in by Miss G in October 
2017, so no repairs  had been carried out at that time. But I'd seen  no evidence that 
confirmed that was what  had happened.  So I didn't think the evidence  I'd seen was enough 
to say the car had been repaired before Miss G acquired it.
Miss G said there were issues  with the car after four weeks of her acquiring it, and shed  
also had to fit a new battery within that month. The issues shed  raised concerned wheel  
noise, the vehicle shuddering and it going into limp mode.
I didn't  think it was disputed that the car had various repairs  to the brakes,  back  plate  and 
diesel particulate filter all within the first six months. Miss G said these  repairs didn't fix the 
problems and so shed had a diagnostic  report prepared. This report was conducted  in 
September 2018 and found that the brake disc was scraping on the backing  plate  and that 
there were leaks around the radiator and the intercooler pipe (which was noted as 
excessive). Miss G said the technician whod  carried out the diagnostics told her that the 
reason for the juddering  was due to the leaking coolant.
MotoNovo was asked by our investigator  to have the car independently inspected but it 
chose not to do so as it said there was no evidence the car was faulty at the point of sale.  
But I disagreed with MotoNovo's view here.  I thought the evidence showed  that Miss G had 
raised a number of complaints about the car's performance within the first six months  of the 
agreement. And that the issues Miss G had had with the car continued  despite various  
repairs being carried out, and didn't appear to have changed in nature over time (for 
instance the car continued  to judder, cut out, and go into limp mode). And while I accepted  
that a problem  with the battery may well have been due to wear and tear (they do requiring 
replacing over time), I didn't think the other issues were ones that wouldve  been  expected 
in car of that age. I thought most people wouldve  expected the car to have lasted  longer 
than it had.
So looking at the evidence,  I thought it supported  Miss G's view that the car wasn't of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I thought  it was likely the leaks  from the radiator and 
of the coolant  were  either present or developing when Miss G acquired  the car.  And as 
MotoNovo had declined to obtain evidence  to show the car was of satisfactory condition,  
then I think it was fair and reasonable  for Miss G to now be able to reject the car and for the 
agreement to come to an end with nothing further owing.
I'd seen that in the time Miss G had had the car she had driven  around  9,000 miles.  That  
was about half the average expected mileage. So I thought it wouldve  been fair for 
MotoNovo  to reimburse her half of the monthly payments she had made under the 
agreement as compensation for the distress and inconvenience of not being  able to use the 
car as shed  intended.
Miss G also paid for some repairs to the car in January 2019 as shed  needed to get it taxed 
and needed it to have a valid MOT to be able to do so. I thought  this was reasonable  for her 
to have arranged these,  and I thought it would be fair for MotoNovo  to reimburse  these  cost 
in the circumstances.
So I was intending  to uphold Miss G's complaint.
Miss  G says  she agrees  with my provisional  decision.  She says  she was never  made  aware  
that the car had failed  an MOT  before  shed  acquired  it and only learnt  this once  shed  
complained  to this service  and her complaint  was investigated.
Ref: DRN15314926MotoNovo  hasnt  responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view as I havent  been asked to re-consider any of the evidence or my 
conclusions. So for the reasons set out above  Im upholding Miss Gs complaint and Im 
asking MotoNovo to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay and mark it as settled
Collect  the car at no cost to Miss G.
Reimburse her 50% of the monthly payments she has made  under the agreement 
together with interest
Ensure there is no adverse information  about this agreement in Miss G's credit  
file.
Reimburse Miss G the costs of the repairs  to the car carried out in January 2019,  
subject to vouching, together  with interest 
Reimburse Miss G the costs  of the road tax taken  out in January 2019, subject to 
vouching, together  with interest. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I'm intending  to uphold Miss G's complaint. To resolve  
matters, Im asking FirstRand Bank Limited to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay and mark it as settled
Collect the car at no cost to Miss G
Reimburse her 50% of the monthly payments she has made under the agreement 
together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
Ensure there is no adverse information about this agreement in Miss G's credit  
file.
Reimburse Miss G the costs of the repairs to the car carried out in January 2019,  
subject to vouching, together  with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse Miss G the costs of the road tax taken out in January 2019, subject to 
vouching, together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
If FirstRand Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold  
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN15314927Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1531492