K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store card. 
The store card was originally taken out in a department store,  but FICL has taken 
responsibility for the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs B took out in 2003.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mrs B clear 
enough information about the policy, and I think this wouldve  mattered to her. I say this 
because Mrs B had sick pay from her employer which  meant she couldve maintained  her 
repayments without  the policy for a while. I dont think that Mrs B wouldnt have wanted  the 
policy if FICL had given her enough  information to understand the costs and benefits of the 
PPI. So, I think Mrs B has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong.  
Ive taken into account FICLs comments about Mrs Bs length of employment,  and the sick 
pay it thinks shes be entitled  to. It says that this service has provided information that Mrs B 
was only in her first year of employment  at the time  so she wouldnt be entitled  to the level 
of sick pay she said she had.
But I disagree. The document FICL is referring  to says that in 2003  she was working  for the 
same employer as she remains with now  not that her employment started in that year.  And 
she had already confirmed that she had worked there for a number of years prior to the sale.  
So I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN14903742FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs B a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1490374