K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the way Auxillis  Limited handled his claim after he was involved in a 
road traffic accident.
background
In July 2018, Mr C was involved in an accident that he said wasnt his fault. His car was hit 
by another car from behind. As Mr C didnt think he was liable for the accident  he used the 
services of Auxillis and didnt make  a claim against his motor  insurance policy.  On inspection 
his car was considered beyond economical repair.
He said he was offered  a pre accident value  settlement of £2294  less £298.22  for salvage. 
Mr C said he decided to accept the overall payout and his car was collected in August  2018. 
But instead  of receiving £2294 Mr C said he only received a cheque for £298.22.  Mr C said 
he tried to get the matter resolved but Auxillis  didnt call him back. And when he asked for 
his car to be returned,  he found out it had been  sold at auction.
Auxillis said as there was a dispute about the third party insurer (TPI), and theyd agreed 
with Mr C for the claim to be passed back to his own insurer for it to be pursued  under his 
motor insurance policy.  
Mr C referred  his complaint to us, as he hasnt received  the settlement for his accident. His 
insurer has said his claim was closed  as it had been  dealt with by Auxillis.  
Our investigator said Auxillis hadnt  done enough.  She said theyd failed to pass  on  
information to Mr C about his claim. And hadnt responded to the TPI when theyd agreed to 
settle. This meant Mr Cs claim was rejected by the TPI. So, hed been left financially 
disadvantaged in not receiving the remaining £1,995.78 for his settlement. She said Auxillis  
should liase with the TPI to get Mr C the remainder  of his settlement. And once paid apply 
8% simple  interest from the date he should have  received the amount  to the date of 
settlement. She also said Auxillis should  pay Mr C £250 for the trouble and upset that had 
been caused.
Auxillis didnt agree, they said they had followed  industry process and had passed  back  Mr 
Cs claim to his insurer. And it was for them to have arranged Mr Cs settlement.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021 that said:
Ref: DRN11255342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im currently  minded to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr C is complaining about took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  would have taken. 
Auxillis  as an AMC  manage claims by arranging  a hire car, where needed, organising  
repairs or determining  pre-accident value of the car if its deemed non repairable and 
claiming these costs back from the TPI. Where there is a dispute about liability  or potential 
delay in settlement,  Id expect to see the AMC advise their customer to make  a claim against 
their own insurance policy.
So, Ive looked  at what has happened here. Due to the time that has elapsed relevant call 
recordings are no longer available. Where  there  is a different version of events, as is the 
case her, I will base  my decision on what I think most likely happened.
The dispute  centres around  who the TPI was, either G or U. And who was handling Mr 
Cs claim, Auxillis or his insurer. I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he hadnt  caused the 
accident and was now at a financial loss as he hadnt received his settlement.
Ive checked Auxillis records and on their Claim Creation Form the details of the accident  
are given, the date of the accident July 2018, the names and details of the drivers and the 
relevant insurers for both parties. The TPI is given as, G.
I can see that towards the end of July 2018, G said theyd carried out a check  on the Motor  
Insurance database (MID). All insurers have a legal requirement to provide data about 
insurance to the database. The MID is a guide, as it might not show  the most up to date 
data, or a possible error when sending the data for example incorrect registration  number. 
And theyd  told Auxillis that the TPI was another  insurer U. I can also see that the pre 
accident valuation  of Mr Cs car had been agreed and Auxillis sent the engineers report  for 
Mr Cs car to both TPIs.
Auxillis records show  G on 8 August 2018 asked for the total loss report so they could 
consider Mr Cs claim. But in mid- August 2018,Auxillis told both Mr C and his insurer that:
Unfortunately, the third party will not be able to release total loss payment as they
believe it is a mistaken  identity. We have now reverted this claim back  to your own insurance  
company.
Ref: DRN11255343The calls made with Mr C are no longer  available. And neither  Auxillis notes or their 
notification to Mr C show any instruction to Mr C as to what  if anything he needed  to do. And 
Auxillis records go on to show Mr C called 15 August 2018, as hed already  received  the 
salvage cheque  of £298.22 and wanted his settlement  or his car returned but it had already 
been sold at auction.  
I can also see that a few days later G agreed  to deal with the claim. Auxillis  in their final 
response have said they took back the claim at this point. Their records  also show that  later 
in the month  Mr Cs insurer told them they wouldnt be taking back  the claim as there had 
been a settlement. So, I think  at this point Auxillis  should have completed Mr Cs claim as 
the TPI had been  clarified, the PAV had been agreed, and Mr Cs insurer  hadnt accepted  
the pass back.
Auxillis records, 5 September  2018 mention a pass back to Mr Cs insurer but there  isnt any 
record of this having been accepted or any update  to Mr C about what was happening with 
his claim.  I can also see Auxillis on 5 February 2020  told Mr C: 
We are pleased to confirm that the Third  Party Insurers have admitted liability  for the 
incident. We shall update you further  in due course.
Our investigator said Auxillis should  work with the TPI to arrange for Mr Cs settlement to be 
paid. Auxillis has said theyd followed industry standards and passed  back Mr Cs claim so 
they werent able to work with the TPI. But as Ive outlined above, I think the reason why 
things have gone wrong here is Auxillis administration  of Mr Cs claim. They arranged for 
the pre valuation report to be done, and this led to Mr Cs car being sold at auction. And I 
think its clear  Mr Cs claim wasnt being handled by his insurer,  as both they and Mr C 
considered Auxillis to be handling the claim. Mr C still hasnt received his remaining 
settlement. 
So, Im intending  to uphold this complaint. And I think to put things right,  Auxillis should  pay 
Mr C the balance of his settlement £1,995.78 plus 8% from when  there was confirmation the 
TPI had accepted liability. And it will be for them  to seek their redress from the TPI.
Mr C has experienced  trouble and upset at a time when hed not only been involved in an 
accident that wasnt his fault.  But in trying to recover  the financial  impact of the accident. So, 
I think Auxillis  should  pay him £250 for trouble and upset.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C accepted my provisional  decision.
Auxillis havent commented.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And ask Auxillis Limited to 
pay Mr C the balance  settlement of £1,995.78  plus *8% from when it was confirmed 
the TPI had accepted  liability; and
£250 for trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN11255344*HM Revenue & Customs requires Auxillis  Limited to take off tax from this interest. Auxiliis 
Limited must  give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1125534