K822xcomplaint
Miss D is unhappy with delays in being  provided with a replacement  bank card by TSB Bank  
plc (TSB).  She also says TSB failed to update  her address correctly  on its systems.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system, linked to a planned upgrade.  
Miss D says that in May 2018  she updated her address  with TSB and ordered a new 
contactless card to replace her chip and pin card. She has told us that this card never 
arrived.
Miss D has told us that her chip and pin card then broke in late June 2018, leaving her 
without a card. She says she ordered  a new card and, in the process of doing this, found 
that her address  hadnt been  updated  as requested in May. 
I understand that, while waiting for her new card to be delivered,  Miss D was left in a difficult 
position, with limited access to her money, and without the ability to make  purchases online. 
She has told us that this hampered her social and professional life. Miss D says she was 
forced to visit her branch to withdraw  cash to make purchases, which she had to coordinate 
around her working hours and childcare. She has also told us that she had to borrow money  
from her friends and family, which she found  embarrassing and stressful.  
Miss D has told us that she was going through a challenging personal situation, and her 
inability to freely access her money compounded  the stress she was experiencing at that 
time. She has also told us that she has spent a considerable period of time on the phone to 
TSB attempting  to resolve the issues, which has been frustrating and inconvenient. 
Our Investigator  looked  into Miss Ds complaint,  and recommended that TSB pay Miss D 
£300 to compensate her for the overall trouble  and upset she had experienced. Miss D didnt 
think this was enough, and requested a decision from an ombudsman,  so the case has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by considering  whether  Miss D has incurred any direct financial loss as a result  of 
whats happened. Miss D has told us about  branch visit and calls to TSB, and so our 
Investigator asked  Miss D to provide details of any phone call charges or travel  costs she 
mightve incurred. Miss D hasnt provided  any further information on these  points, so Im not 
making an award for travel or call costs.  And I havent seen any evidence  of other financial 
loss here in this case.
However, I do accept that Miss D has suffered stress and inconvenience  as a result  of 
whats gone wrong, and I think she is entitled  to compensation for this. Having  reviewed all 
the evidence available, I agree with our Investigator that £300 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for TSB to pay for the trouble and upset  caused.  
Ref: DRN13603672I know Miss D feels this figure should be higher,  and Id like to make it clear that Im not 
suggesting that she has overstated the inconvenience and upset this matter  has caused her. 
However, this service doesnt  exist to punish  businesses, but rather  to put things right for 
individual consumers.  And in this case I think £300 is fair compensation for what  Miss D has 
experienced. This decision has been reached having carefully considered all available  
evidence, and in the context of a wider understanding of the amount of compensation we 
would typically award in cases of a similar  nature.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If TSB Bank plc has not already  done so, it 
should pay Miss D £300 for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019. 
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1360367