K822xcomplaint
Mrs A is seeking to recover nearly  £20,000  from Barclays Bank UK plc, which was stolen 
from her bank account on 10 May 2018 as a result of a third-party  scam.
Barclays says it is not liable for the loss because  Mrs A unwittingly authorised the payment 
 and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the payee bank. 
my findings
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, I have concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mrs A authorised  the scam payment of £20,000. She was 
duped by the scammers into instructing  her branch to transfer that sum to their fake 
account with Lloyds Bank. They  deceived  her over the phone into thinking  that her 
account was at risk of fraud from Barclays staff;  so, in return  for £4,000 compensation, 
she should transfer the money to a safe account, i.e. their account. They also coached  
her to tell the branch staff,  if asked, that it was for her son-in-law, who was in urgent 
need.  
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs A was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used  her security  credentials to request the payment. So, 
although she did not intend the money  to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions  of her account, Mrs A is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
3.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider that it would have been fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to have:
monitored accountsand any payments made or receivedin order  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst  other things), 
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
taken additional  steps or made  additional checks in some circumstances
irrespective of the payment channel usedbefore  processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make  a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud; and
followed the Banking Protocol where  appropriate  for branch transactions such  as 
this.
4.It is common ground that there were fraud triggers  in this case  because Barclays  staff 
did in fact intervene. This was a scam  that is well-known to banks  and on this 
occasion, Mrs A was questioned by two members of staff before the transfer was 
executed. Although  Mrs A had recently  inherited about £60,000 from her late husband,  a 
£20,000 payment  was still unusual and uncharacteristic for her and her account, 
Ref: DRN19875422particularly as it was being sent to a new payee. There had been no comparable  
legitimate payments in recent times.  The staff were  right to question  Mrs A about it. 
5.Barclays submittedin response to our investigators initial assessment upholding the 
complaintthat there were two comparable (legitimate) payments from the distribution of 
inheritance funds on the same  day: one cheque for £10,000 and another  for £9,363.60. 
However, it is not clear from the account statement or any other  evidence  that these 
payments would have  appeared or been  known  to staff at the time; and, besides, this 
argument ignores  the fact that the staff were sufficiently concerned about the possibility 
of fraud  to ask questions and warn of fraud and scams even  though the transfer was 
within their £30,000 margin of risk and even though Mrs A appeared calm and collected. 
6.In her response to our investigators assessment, Mrs A said she wasnt given the scam 
warning until she returned to the branch  but I think she has probably misremembered 
because the banks contemporaneous  notepad  entries support its version, i.e. that the 
scam warning was given  before  the payment. In any event, I think  it is immaterial.  
Barclays systems  had clearly been triggered  by unusual or uncharacteristic  activity 
despite the recent large payment in and two cheques  out. Accordingly,  its just a question  
of whether they did enough in all the circumstances. 
7.But the evidence  before us indicates  that the staff did not ask Mrs A any appropriate 
follow-up or probing questions when she repeated the son-in-law story which the 
scammers had coached her into telling.  According  to Barclays  records, they merely 
asked her where the money was going and then gave her general information  about 
fraud and scams.  In my judgment, they could and should have done more,  particularly 
given the requirements of the Banking Protocol (which recognises  that victims are often  
given cover stories, so encourages staff to ask probing questions  and get into the detail 
in order to test). 
8.Mrs A was vulnerable  at the time due to her age and recent bereavement. This is a well-
known scam. If the bank  staff had probed a bit moree.g. asking for the details of her 
son-in-law and why he urgently needed  the money; whether she had received a phone 
call from any stranger purporting to be from Barclays,  etcit seems likely that Mrs As 
false story would  have unravelled and she and/or  the staff would have  realised that 
something was amiss before it was too late. In other words, but for Barclays failure  to 
probe in an appropriate and sensitive waythe  scam  would probably not have 
succeeded.
9.My conclusions  about what was likely to have happened if Barclays  had asked probing  
questions are reinforced by the fact that Mrs A went straight  back  to the branch shortly 
after the payment  had been  made. She saysand I acceptthat, reflecting on what  had 
just occurred and been discussed,  she started to entertain doubts. But by then it was too 
late  the funds  had already left and were  almost immediately removed from Lloyds by 
the scammers (which  meant Barclays could not, despite efforts,  recover more  than £2.84 
from the payee bank). In other  words, if the staff had carried out further or better 
questioning in line with a banks  duty of care, it seems probable  that Mrs A would have 
become alerted to the scam in time and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud 
would have failed;  and Mrs A would not have lost £19,997.16. 
10.In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether  the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from 
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
Ref: DRN19875423completeness, I will say that, whilst there  was a little delay by Barclays  at this stage, it 
would have made no difference because Lloyds records  show  that the scammers 
withdrew all the money (save the £2.84) within an hour of the transfer, i.e. before Mrs A 
had even gone back into the branch to notify her concerns.
11.I have  also considered whether  Mrs A should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate 
what she was doing or the consequences of her actions. She thought she was helping to 
stop financial crime, not facilitate it. I am satisfied  there was no contributory negligence 
on this occasion;  she was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of clever fraudsters. 
The bank  was the professional in financial matters; Mrs A was a vulnerable layperson. 
12.In the circumstances,  I am satisfied it would  be fair and reasonable for Barclays  to 
reimburse Mrs A for the loss she suffered without  any reduction, together with interest to 
compensate her for being  deprived  of the money  she lost from her current  account. 
13.I also think it is appropriate to make  a modest award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs A has suffered.  In reaching  that conclusion, I am mindful  that much of 
her distress was caused by the criminal act of fraudsters who duped her into authorising 
the transaction  but Barclays could ultimately have prevented this. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay £19,997.16 to Mrs A within  28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision; 
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the date 
of refund (less any tax lawfully deductible); and
Pay Mrs A £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience within 28 days  of 
receiving notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision, failing which  interest will 
thereafter accrue on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October  2020. 
Mark Sceeny
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1987542