K820x#14complaint
Miss R and Miss B are unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd has treated a claim under  their home 
insurance policy as subsidence rather than accidental damage.
background
In December 2018 Miss R and Miss B made  a claim to QIC for accidental damage after 
problems with their drainage system.  The damage was repaired and they sent QIC a report  
from their contractor.
After reviewing that report QIC declined the claim.  It said the damage had been caused  by 
gradual deterioration which wasnt covered by their policy.
Miss R and Miss B appointed D to handle the claim on their behalf. D sent CCTV footage 
and a revised report saying that the damage had probably been caused  by ground 
movement. QIC accepted the claim under  the subsidence section of the policy  and applied  
the £1,000 excess which applied to subsidence claims.
Miss R and Miss B say the total cost of the repairs and investigations was £8,023  including 
VAT. After deduction of the excess and including  VAT, QIC offered to pay £2,602.
Miss R and Miss B werent happy  about that. They thought QIC should treat it as an 
accidental damage  claim  in which case the excess would be £250. They brought their 
complaint to this service.  They  were also unhappy  that QIC hadnt accepted their claim for 
the full cost of the repairs.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the damage had probably been 
caused by subsidence. As Miss R and Miss B didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the repairs to the drainage system  had been carried out by the time the claim was 
made to QIC, it couldnt inspect the pipework and see the problem first hand. Instead it had 
to rely on the report from Miss R and Miss Bs drainage company. That report  said on the 
balance of probabilities the cause of the damage was ground movement.
The definition of accidental  damage in the policy is sudden, unexpected and physical 
damage. In my opinion ground  movement  is something that usually happens over a period  of 
time rather than suddenly. So I dont think QIC treated Miss R and Miss B unfairly  in saying 
that it wasnt accidental  damage.
Although there was also an escape of water, I think this happened as a result of the ground 
movement and so ground movement  should  be considered the primary cause of the 
damage.
Subsidence is defined in the policy as Downward movement of the ground your buildings 
stand on that is not a result of settlement. The definition of buildings includes footpaths. 
Ref: DRN18544292Since the footpath had completely collapsed according to Miss R and Miss Bs drainage  
expert, I think  QIC acted reasonably in treating subsidence as the main cause of the damage  
to the drainage system.
Under the policy terms Miss R and Miss B were entitled to carry out temporary repairs that 
were necessary to reduce  any further loss or damage. But they werent supposed to carry 
out any permanent  repairs without first getting QICs written permission. I cant see that they 
complied with this. They  had the work carried out before contacting QIC to make  a claim.
QIC had the option under  the policy of carrying out the repairs itself. Since it was effectively  
deprived of this opportunity, I think it acted reasonably in saying it would only pay Miss R 
and Miss B what it would  have cost it to have the works carried out.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854429