K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc was partly to blame 
for the failure  to obtain Fixed Protection 2014 (FP14). He says he doesnt think it exercised  
an appropriate duty of care in its handling of the matter and in its communications  with him. 
background
My understanding is that applying for FP14  was discussed with Mr H in a meeting with the 
firm on 19 March 2014. St. Jamess Place subsequently e-mailed Mr H on the same  day. 
The e-mail contained the application for FP14 along with guidance  notes on how to complete 
it. Mr H replied to that e-mail, again on 19 March, asking St. Jamess  Place  to use a different 
e-mail address of his. However  it doesnt appear the e-mail was re-sent  to the e-mail 
address Mr H had asked for. And FP14 was never obtained. 
Mr H subsequently  realised that he didnt have  FP14  in place and he complained to St. 
Jamess Place. He felt that he may incur a tax charge  on his pension  if he exceeded the 
lifetime allowance  which was/is significantly lower than the £1.5 million that FP14  provided.  
St. Jamess Place didnt uphold the complaint.  In summary, it said it had sent Mr H an e-mail 
with the relevant instructions to apply for FP14.  It was clear that Mr H had received it given 
he had replied to the e-mail. It hadnt been able to establish whether it had responded  but it 
said the original  e-mail  provided the HMRC  application form and confirmed the need  for it to 
be completed and sent to them directly.  Ultimately, it said responsibility  for applying for FP14 
rested with Mr H. Although it didnt  uphold the main  aspect  of Mr Hs complaint it offered to 
pay him £250 as a gesture of goodwill for any inconvenience the matter had caused him.    
Mr H didnt accept the offer and referred  the complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the matter but didnt  recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld.  He referred  to the 19 March 2014  e-mail sent by St. Jamess Place which 
said:
Further to your meeting  with [the adviser], please find attached  the HMRC Application for
protection of your lifetime pension allowance, along  with guidance notes. Alternatively, you
can complete the form online at: HMRC website link.
The adjudicator felt this e-mail was clear and written in understandable terms. He said he 
would have expected Mr H to read it given it was sent shortly after a meeting about  the 
matter. Although Mr H had responded to ask St. Jamess Place  to send the e-mail  to a 
different address, the adjudicator thought Mr H could  have done this himself and he didnt 
think St. Jamess Place was to blame.  
The adjudicator also noted that as Mr Hs pension fund value was below the lifetime 
allowance at the time it wasnt possible  to know whether he would ultimately  suffer a tax 
charge. He pointed  out that Mr H could also apply for Fixed  Protection 2016 (FP16)  which  
would provide a lifetime  allowance of £1.25 million (my understanding  is that Mr H did apply 
for FP16  and has this protection). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN13141842Mr H has said he recollects signing the relevant  form at the firms  offices and leaving it to 
deal with the matter.  Hes provided a copy of a number of notes  and communications 
between himself and the firm which he says is consistent with this; it shows  the firm 
understood he had FP14 after the deadline and it must have been basing  this on evidence 
from its own files. 
On the one hand I understand Mr Hs suspicions  the firms confirmation that he had FP14 
was categorical  there wasnt evidence of any doubt. However  the firm has said its 
confirmation was based on its understanding that Mr H had applied  for it following the 19 
March e-mail. And whilst I think it ought reasonably have  undertaken further  checks before 
providing such positive  confirmation, this was all after the deadline to apply for FP14. So it 
wasnt material to the actual failure to apply for it  albeit that information was misleading to 
Mr H. And although I accept this does  leave some doubts, I dont think the surrounding 
circumstances suggest it was more likely than not that the firm had agreed to do something 
after the 19 March  e-mail,  which I think was clear that action was needed by Mr H.
It isnt in dispute that Mr H had a meeting with the firm on 19 March  in which FP14  was 
discussed. And given  the note about  stopping contributions and that it must  be done by 5 
April it must  have been discussed in a reasonable amount of detail  rather  than a mere 
passing reference to it. So I think Mr H was clearly alerted  to FP14  at that meeting. It 
appears he was alerted  to the approaching deadline and would have been reminded of the 
matter, at least generally, by the subsequent e-mail.  There was only just over two weeks  
before the deadline to apply for FP14 and Im not aware there were any further meetings. 
It appears that the 19 March e-mail was sent to two of Mr Hs e-mail addresses. And Mr H 
appears to have copied in the second of those e-mail addresses when responding to the 
firm. I think whats  key is that Mr H clearly  received  that e-mail. And although its not clear 
how much  of it he read it would have  acted as a general reminder about the matter. 
So I dont  think it necessarily follows that if the firm had immediately e-mailed the address  
Mr H had requested it to, he would obviously have applied for FP14 before the deadline. 
Hed already had a meeting where  it had been discussed that day. And the firm had sent him 
an e-mail  about it. Another e-mail  may or may not have  acted  as a catalyst; its possible - for 
example if Mr H read his personal e-mails later that day (or indeed if the firm had sent it a 
few days later where I accept its more  likely  to have acted  as a reminder; however there 
was no obligation  on the firm in terms of its timing).  
However this is all speculation. And as I have said above, what is known is that the firm 
discussed FP14 in the meeting and clearly set out what Mr H had to do to apply for it in its 
19 March e-mail. As mentioned by the adjudicator, Mr H could have copied the e-mail to the 
address he wanted  when  he replied  to the firm and included the other recipient addresses.  
Mr H responded to the firms 19 March  e-mail  copying in the adviser  and the other of his e-
mail addresses the firms e-mail had been sent to. He said:
Thanks [senders  name]
Please use {another of Mr Hs e-mail  addresses).  
Many thanks!
I think its arguable that this was a clear request for the firm to send a copy  of that same e-
mail to the other address  requested  rather than say future  e-mails. But I think the firm 
Ref: DRN13141843ought to have replied to Mr Hs e-mail  even if merely to clarify the nature of his request as 
there was room for doubt.
But my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
As Ive said,  I think the firm should have responded to Mr Hs e-mail. But taking everything 
into account, I dont  think that failure  caused the potential losses that Mr H has claimed.     
Mr H had already had a meeting about the matter and the subsequent e-mail ought to have 
acted, at least, as a reminder. I accept the firm could have  been  sent automatic  reminders as 
suggested by Mr H. But I dont think it was a failure in duty in not doing  so, rather  it just 
wasnt going  the extra mile. 
So I think the firm ought to have replied to Mr Hs e-mail. And that it should  also have 
checked that he had FP14 before providing  confirmation that he had it. But I dont think 
either caused the potential losses claimed   rather some  inconvenience to Mr H, for which 
the firm has offered to pay £250. Mr H has said he thinks  this offer is derisory and I 
understand his feelings given the level of losses he considers the firms lack of diligence  has 
caused. However having carefully considered the matter and taking  everything  into account, 
I think this is a fair and reasonable  offer for the degree of inconvenience  caused by its failure 
to respond to the e-mail  and the misinformation  it provided.
my final decision
Im aware that St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc has made an offer to pay Mr H 
£250. I conclude  that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My final 
decision is that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should  pay Mr H £250.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314184