K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the service they received from TSB Bank plc when  they 
re-mortgaged their rental property with it. They  believe its poor service caused  delays  and 
resulted in them suffering a financial loss and they want to be compensated for that.
background
Mr and Mrs F arranged  a re-mortgage on their rental property  through  a broker. The 
application was submitted  to TSB on 2 March 2018.  Mr and Mrs F wanted the re-mortgage  
to be timed to go through at the same time as their fixed  rate with their existing  lender  
ended. That was to be 30 April 2018.  The interest  rate increased from 3.85% to 5.35% 
thereafter.
Unfortunately, TSB was busier than usual at the time the application  was made and so there  
was some delay in it considering the application. It then made a mistake in ordering the 
wrong type of survey   a residential one rather than a buy-to-let. This caused additional 
delays in the application being accepted.
The application was accepted and the offer sent to Mr and Mrs F on 27 April 2018. However, 
that was too late for the mortgage to complete before the fixed  rate ended.  The mortgage 
completed 18 days after Mr and Mrs Fs fixed  rate expired.
TSB accepted it had caused delays when  concerns  were raised with it. It calculated  how 
much more interest Mr and Mrs F paid on the old mortgage in comparison with what they 
would have paid had the TSB mortgage completed on time.  It paid Mr and Mrs F that sum of 
£192.60 plus £100 for any inconvenience  they had suffered. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  think this was enough as their solicitor had asked for over £400 to cover 
the costs of completing the mortgage.  TSB pointed out that the amount  Mr and Mrs F had 
asked to borrow was less than the amount they owed to the previous lender, but that it 
wasnt responsible  for making sure the advance was enough to clear the previous mortgage. 
It also highlighted that Mr and Mrs F were only entitled to the difference in the interest they 
had paid as they would  always  have  been  paying some interest for the 18 days in question. 
Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied with TSBs offer and referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  He 
explained that the mis-match between the redemption figure with the old mortgage  and the 
advance applied for on the new one was not something TSB was responsible  for. The offer 
for the difference  in interest was the appropriate  one. As for the other costs detailed  by the 
solicitor for paying off the old mortgage  and competing on the new one, these appeared to 
be charges that would always have  had to be paid, whether  there were delays or not. The 
investigator also considered the £100  offered for the inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs F 
was sufficient in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions and felt that there were areas of 
their complaint that hadnt been  fully addressed. They acknowledged  the two charges to 
redeem the mortgage and the two solicitors  charges  in relation to the title were  payable by 
them. They went on to explain their thoughts about  the interest payment that had been made 
and the amount they had had to pay the solicitors  to allow completion. They also set out how 
they thought they should  be compensated.
Ref: DRN17038992Our investigator again explained why the offer from TSB was correct, but Mr and Mrs F 
didnt accept the explanation. They said they believe that they have been charged over £700 
for interest  and fees which were beyond their control. They  went  on to explain what  their 
understanding of what  they had been  charged  in relation to interest and fees.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When doing  so, whilst I am aware of the 
actions of the other party involved  in this case  the broker  I will not comment  on those 
actions in this decision.
I would also at this stage make it clear  that TSB is not responsible for the amount 
Mr and Mrs F applied  to borrow. By this I mean that TSB is not responsible for the fact that 
the amount they asked to borrow  from it was less than the amount they needed to clear the 
capital balance of their existing mortgage by £75. The decision onhow much  to apply for was 
made when  the application was completed  and before TSB received it. 
Mr and Mrs F are understandably unhappy  that they were asked to pay more at completion 
than they had expected.  I am pleased  to see that TSB has accepted the completion  of the 
mortgage was delayed due to its actions.  As such, Mr and Mrs F should rightly  be 
compensated by TSB for any losses they suffered due to that delay, whether financial  or 
non-financial. I will deal with each issue separately.
When deciding how redress should  be calculated  or structured, we aim to place a consumer 
in the same financial position as they would have  been in (as far as possible) but for the 
mistake made by the financial business.  In this case that would be the position they would  
have been in had completion  taken place on time. 
I have examined the documentation available in this case and considered  Mr and Mrs Fs 
submissions. They  appear to believe  that the interest paid after the proposed  completion 
date has, somehow, affected the capital balance of their mortgage. I can assure them that it 
has not. They applied  for a mortgage of £127,500 and that is the amount they received and 
are paying  interest  on. So whilst they have asked that the monthly  payments for their 
mortgage be recalculated and past overpayments refunded, this is not necessary  the 
payments were calculated  correctly  based  on the loan amount Mr and Mrs F asked for.
Ref: DRN17038993Mr and Mrs F dont  believe that the offer TSB has made compensates  them  for their financial 
loss due to the delay  in completing the mortgage. I know that this will disappoint them, but I 
am satisfied  that it does.  I have set out the amounts in tabular form below to try to make  
clear the sums involved.
At the actual completion 
dateCompletion at the 
selected date
Capital balance owed  to existing lender £127,575 £127,575
Redemption sealing  fee payable to 
existing lender£150 £150
Deeds release fee payable to existing 
lender£90 £90
Solicitors fee  Title deeds £24 £24
Solicitors fees  amending  title deeds £12 £12
Interest paid to exiting lender for 1 to 
18 May 2018£330.30
Interest that would have been  paid to 
TSB for 1 to 18 May 2018 (due in the 
first mortgage payment)£144 
Total due to be paid out £128,181.30 £127,995
Amount received from the TSB 
mortgage advance£127,500 £127,500
Cashback £250 £250
Total receipts £127,750 £127,750
Total payable less total receipts 431.30 £245
The figure in the second  column above  is the amount  Mr and Mrs F actually paid to their 
solicitor to allow completion to be finalised.  The figure in the third column is the amount they 
would have needed to pay the solicitor for completion to be allowed plus the additional 
interest they would have  had to pay as part of their first mortgage  payment to TSB if there 
had not been an 18 day delay in completing the mortgage. The difference  between the two 
figures is the amount of financial loss they suffered; £186.30. TSB has already credited their 
bank account  with slightly more than that sum so it has paid them their financial loss. 
I now turn to the matter of compensation for non-financial loss. Mr and Mrs F have said they 
dont think the compensation is enough. I have considered  the events during the application 
process and there were  clearly delays which TSB has accepted were its fault. It paid, 
alongside the amount for financial loss, £100  for any inconvenience this delay caused them. 
It is clear that Mr and Mrs F were very focussed on the mortgage completing  when they 
wanted it to, which is evidenced by the emails and calls to their broker to find out what  was 
happening. They also had to pay out around £330  more to allow completion to happen than 
they otherwise  would have, although  that also meant their first mortgage  payment was 
around £150 less than it should have been. In all the circumstances, I am satisfied that the 
£100 TSB credited Mr and Mrs Fs bank account  with was appropriate in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN17038994my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1703899