K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Perrys Motor Sales  Limited mis-sold her a conditional sale agreement.
background
Mrs F obtained a car using a conditional sale agreement in January 2015. At the end of the 
agreement she was charged for excess mileage.  She says she didnt realise  there was 
restricted mileage under the terms of the agreement. She wants the outstanding finance 
settled and her credit  file cleared.
Perrys Motor Sales (Perrys)  said the agreement clearly detailed that Mrs F shouldnt  
exceed the approved annual mileage of 6,000  miles and that shed signed the agreement 
which shows she was happy with it.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that 
Mrs F hadnt been made sufficiently aware  of the mileage restriction.  He thought Perrys 
should pay the excess mileage charge.
Perrys didnt  agree,  so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional decision
I was minded to uphold  the complaint. I concluded that:
Perrys didnt  recommend  the conditional  sale agreement  to Mrs F, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for her. But it needed to give her information  that was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  an informed choice about the finance 
agreement.
The paperwork included the conditional  sale agreement and a sales agency  agreement,  
both of which Mrs F signed to say she understood and agreed with the terms. The Sales 
Agency Agreement included a box headed  Mileage Details and said, in bold text:
Mileage reading  at Agreement date is 1 miles
Selected Annual Mileage Is 6000 miles
Rate for each excess mile Is 14.9 p (excluding  VAT)
This is set out reasonably clearly.  But I wouldve expected,  in addition, that the sales 
person wouldve drawn  this to Mrs Fs attention. 
Ive taken into account what Perrys says that, because of her occupation, Mrs F 
shouldve known the importance  of reading all of the terms and conditions. But this 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion  whatever  Mrs Fs background or 
experience, I think Perrys sales person had an obligation to make  sure the key terms 
were brought to her attention during the meeting.
Ref: DRN16267722I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed during the meeting. But Mrs F has a 
relatively detailed  recollection of what  happened.  She says she told the sales person 
that she needed the car to commute to work  and that they then chatted about this 
because the salesperson said his wife had a similar  commute  so he knew  how far it was 
and what it was like. Mrs F was then asked  how much  she could afford and the 
salesperson said he could provide her with an agreement that was just above her 
budget, which she confirmed she could manage. She has no recollection of selecting an 
annual mileage or of this being discussed.
Mrs F knew her annual  mileage would be more than 6,000 miles because  she was 
going to use the car for her work  commute  a daily round trip of over 50 miles. And I 
can see from her insurance certificate  that she estimated she would drive around  12,000  
miles a year.  So it seems  more likely  than not that she wouldnt have chosen an annual 
mileage of 6,000 miles. And the sales person knew Mrs F would cover more than 6,000 
miles each  year, so shouldve pointed out that a 6,000 limit wasnt appropriate.
If Perrys had made it clear that there was an annual mileage limit of 6,000 and that 
Mrs F would have to pay excess mileage at the end of the agreement if she exceeded 
this limit, I dont think she would have signed the agreement. 
So I think the conditional sale agreement was mis-sold and so Mrs F should be 
compensated.
I noted that, at the end of the term of the agreement,  Mrs F couldnt afford to pay the balloon 
payment and the excess mileage so the car was possessed by the finance  company and 
sold at auction.  She told us shed been asked to pay the resulting shortfall of £2,229,  which 
included the excess  mileage charge, and that shes  been repaying £100  a month. I asked  
her to provide evidence  of this.
I thought Perrys should:
1. On receipt of evidence from Mrs F, pay the balance outstanding with the finance  
company. 
2. On receipt of evidence from Mrs F, refund the payments  shes made to the finance 
company, plus interest.
3. Refund the deposit paid by Mrs F of £255, plus interest.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs F provided evidence to show that, as at 30 August 2019, the balance she was being  
asked to pay was £1,681.83. Ive not seen evidence  of what  shes paid since the agreement  
ended or what shes  paid since 30 August.
Ref: DRN16267723Perrys didnt  agree  with my provisional  decision. It responded in some  detail  saying, in 
summary, that:
The annual mileage forms an important part of the conditional sale agreement and 
affects the guaranteed minimum future value of the car and the monthly repayment 
amount.
Mrs F agreed to an annual mileage of 6,000 miles, and benefitted from a lower  monthly  
payment.
All customers have  a duty of care to ensure that they read and understand the 
agreement terms and conditions  before  they sign them. Mrs Fs occupation means she 
shouldve understood the importance of this.
The agreement, and accompanying  paperwork, were clear,  fair and not misleading  and 
highlighted the annual  mileage.
Mrs F signed to say she was happy with what shed been told and that the sales 
process had been followed.
Perrys wouldve  taken time to ensure the agreement was what Mrs F wanted; it 
wouldve gone  through a number  of different options,  but ultimately Mrs F chose  this 
agreement with an annual mileage of 6,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Perrys provided a detailed  response  to my provisional decision and I have fully considered 
everything it has said. Im not going to reply to every point its made, because my role is to 
focus on what I consider  material  to the outcome of the complaint.
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that the agreement  did set out the annual mileage 
of 6,000. And its possible that Mrs F was fully aware of this and specifically chose this 
mileage because it meant the monthly  repayments  would  be within her budget. But I am still 
persuaded by what Mrs F told us and her recollection of what happened  at the time  I find it 
more likely that Mrs F told Perrys  how much  she could  afford  each month and the 
salesperson presented her with an agreement within her budget  without highlighting the 
annual mileage. 
Whilst Mrs F shouldve  read the terms and conditions  before she signed the agreement, I still 
think that in the particular  circumstances here,  Perrys shouldve drawn her attention to the 
annual mileage term. Mrs Fs recalls, in some  detail, her discussion with the salesperson 
about her daily commute. I am persuaded that the salesperson wouldve known Mrs Fs 
actual mileage would be around 12,000 miles a year. So, whilst  it didnt recommend  the 
agreement, it wouldve  known it wasnt appropriate for her, unless she was prepared  to pay 
the excess mileage charge at the end of the agreement. I dont think  this can have been 
discussed because, if it had been, I dont think it likely that Mrs F wouldve gone ahead with 
the agreement.
Ref: DRN16267724So, after careful  consideration of the particular circumstances of this case, and on balance, 
Perrys arguments do not change my conclusion. I think the conditional  sale agreement was 
mis-sold and Mrs F should be compensated  as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Perrys  Motor  Sales  should:
1.On receipt of evidence from Mrs F, pay the balance  outstanding with the finance 
company. 
2.On receipt of evidence from Mrs F, refund the payments shes made to the finance 
company since  the end of the agreement  term to date.
3.Refund the deposit paid by Mrs F of £255.
Items 2 and 3 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Perrys  Motor  Sales to take off tax from this interest. Perry 
Motor Sales  must give Mrs F a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1626772