K821x#15Complaint
Miss B and Mr P complain that House  & Home  Care Limited (HHC)  misled  them  when they 
entered into a debt settlement agreement. Theyre unhappy with the fees, and that the 
agreement hasnt paid off all the debts in five years as it said it would.
Background
In May 2009  Miss B and Mr P were struggling with a number of debts. They  initially applied 
for an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA), but while that was being set up they were 
placed on a debt management plan.  This plan came  with fees totalling  17.63% per month as 
a distribution and management  charge. But Miss B and Mr P were told they werent eligible 
for the IVA so were moved  from the debt management plan to a debt settlement with HHC  
this carried fees of 20% of savings on any settled debt. They  say HHC told them theyd be 
debt free in five years. And they say they were  also told there  were  no fees for this.
Miss B and Mr P had been with HHC for around  nine years at the point it stopped  offering  
debt advice and support.  This meant Miss B and Mr P had to manage their largest debt, of 
around £17,000, themselves as HHC hadnt  resolved this one. And it was at this point they 
say they discovered  HHC were changing  them fees for each settled debt.
Because they disagreed  with HHC charging  fees and the largest  debt hadnt  been cleared, 
they asked us to look into things. Our investigator  ultimately felt theyd been told about  fees 
when they initially  signed up with HHC. But felt it hadnt  told Miss B and Mr P about a 
change in the amount of fees charged, when it switched them  from the IVA to the debt 
settlement agreement. So he upheld  the complaint and suggested HHC pay the difference 
between the 17.63% fee he could  see HHC  had told Miss B and Mr P about   and the 20% 
fee they ended up paying. He said HHC should also pay 8% simple  interest  on this amount, 
or offset  it against  anything Miss B and Mr P still have owing.
HHC said itd be near impossible to calculate  the difference, and while  it didnt agree with the 
suggestion it had done anything wrong, it was prepared to try and settle the complaint. It 
said if they used  a simple  3% difference from the total fee due of £8,054.69 this would  mean 
a reduction from the fees of £1,238.03. HHC say £799.17 in unpaid  fees are still owed,  so 
the offer would be £483.86. But they were prepared to raise this to £750 to settle  the case as 
a gesture of goodwill  on a without prejudice basis.
Miss B and Mr P didnt agree with this. They did some of their own calculations, and came  
back with three separate solutions  they felt were  reasonable to resolve the complaint. HHC 
didnt agree with any of these, so the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN10513112My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence  Ive got I can see that Miss B and Mr P were  made  aware, and 
agreed to, fees of 17.63% per month as a distribution and management charge. This was 
part of the signed terms and conditions  provided  when they took out the debt management 
plan in May 2009. But Ive seen nothing in the notes or other evidence HHC or Miss B and 
Mr P have given me to show  they agreed  to fees of 20% of the savings on a debt on the debt 
settlement agreement. This is quite a significant  change from the original  agreed  fees,  so Id 
expect to see sufficient  records to demonstrate that was discussed  and agreed  to  which I 
havent.
HHC have argued  that there are new signed  terms and conditions for when the fees were 
changed. There are signed documents from Miss B and Mr P when things changed, but I 
cant see that the new fee structure  was sufficiently explained  to them.
So I think its more likely  than not, based  on what Ive seen, Miss B and Mr P werent made 
aware of the increase in charges. I think Miss B and Mr P were likely under the impression 
the fees they were paying on the debt settlement was the same as what theyd agreed to 
before. So  the next consideration is what the redress should be in this complaint.
Our investigator has recommended a relatively  straightforward answer  which  is calculate  
the difference in what Miss B and Mr P would  have paid under  the fee structure they agreed  
to  against the one they didnt.
In principle this does seem like the fairest  answer. But HHC have  explained it thinks  itll be 
near impossible to calculate this because of the different ways  the fees would have been 
applied under the different  agreements. So rather than attempting  to calculate this in detail, it 
offered £750 to resolve this complaint.
Miss B and Mr P didnt accept this and offered  their own three  suggestions for resolving this 
issue. None of which HHC  accepted, but it didnt explain its reasons why it didnt agree with 
any of these suggestions.
Ultimately my decision has to reflect the fairest outcome on a complaint  setting aside the 
potential difficulties in reaching that outcome. And in this case I think the fairest  outcome  is 
to calculate the difference in fees charged.
Miss B and Mr P have also said they think HHC have charged fees for debts they didnt  
settle. Ive not considered this in detail, because by recalculating  the relevant fees, any 
issues here should be resolved. This recalculation should also resolve  HHCs concerns 
about fees it says Miss B and Mr P havent  paid.
Ref: DRN10513113My final decision
It follows that I uphold  this complaint, and require House & Home Care  Limited  to:
A.Calculate the total fees that would have been paid under the debt management  plan 
(17.63% fee structure).
B.Calculate the total fees paid under the debt settlement agreement (20%  fee 
structure).
C.Subtract the amount  calculated under A from B, and pay Miss B and Mr P the 
difference if this results in a credit  figure.  
D.If this results in a credit figure,  then HHC should  add simple  interest on the 
difference. The interest rate should  be 8%.
E.HHC should also provide a calculation  showing what its done  to Miss B and Mr P.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HHC to take off tax from this interest. HCC must give 
Miss B and Mr P a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1051311