K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that having  requested  a full transfer  of his Self-Invested Personal Pension  
(SIPP) in June 2017, the cash element wasnt transferred until January 2018. He also 
complains about  being  charged  additional,  what he regarded as excessive non-advisory  
fees, by Integrated Financial Arrangements  Ltd T/A Transact.
background
Mr S held a SIPP  with Transact  and on 22 June 2017 he instructed it, through  his adviser, to 
sell a number of assets in his SIPP.  He  then wanted the remaining cash balance, as well as 
five assets which were to be re-registered in-specie  to be transferred to a new provider. 
When it received the instruction Transact requested that Mr Ss adviser complete and return  
a transfer discharge  form so the transfer could proceed. A request to sell the assets was 
made and contract  notes  provided to Mr S in early July 2017.
On 18 September  2017 Transact  requested that the transfer discharge form was sent back 
so it could proceed with the transfer.  By 5 October  2017 it had received the form and 
confirmation that the funds would be accepted was received on 20 October 2017.
Around the same time Transact  sent Mr S and his adviser a half yearly report which showed
the funds held in Mr Ss SIPP.  This included a cash holding of £193,098  and the five other  
funds. It also confirmed  some changes to its terms and conditions  (T&Cs)  including  an 
update to clause 9.1(3) which explained  why commissions were higher if a customer  didnt 
have an adviser. 
The five remaining assets were then re-registered but there  were  problems with one of the 
funds requiring additional information. As a result the fund wasnt transferred until
12 December 2017.
On 16 January 2018 Transact received Mr Ss advisers instruction to transfer £190,000 from 
his SIPP  to his new provider which was transferred the following day.
In May 2018  Mr S complained to Transact  about  both the delays that he thought had 
occurred during the transfer process and also about the charges that had been  deducted  
from his portfolio. He said Transact had applied both non-advised commission and also 
adviser charges  to his account, which he said wasnt fair. He wanted  the charges to be 
refunded. 
Transact accepted that it had delayed the transfer of one of the funds because  the details 
had not been recorded on their system correctly.  It said that this error caused  Mr S a loss of 
£1,109.00, which it paid to his SIPP on 30 January 2018. 
The transfer eventually  completed on 15 February  2018. But Transact didnt think  the error  
with the fund had caused any delay in transferring the cash,  although it acknowledged  this 
error had delayed the final asset  transfer, so paid Mr S £200  for the frustration and concern 
this had caused.  Transact also said that it wouldnt normally transfer the cash element of a 
transaction until all the assets had been moved   in case further  fees are required. But it 
confirmed that, due to the size of the cash fund involved, it would have been prepared to 
transfer a proportion of the cash if requested  which Mr Ss adviser did in January 2018. So 
it didnt think it had delayed the cash transfer  element of the SIPP.
Ref: DRN14840442But Transact also said that it didnt have any evidence to show  that it had double charged  
Mr S on his SIPP, and said hed been unable  to demonstrate where this might  have  
happened. Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome so he brought  his complaint to us. In his 
submission he explained that he believed the non-advisory charges were excessive and had 
been the subject of recent regulatory scrutiny.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and concluded that Mr Ss adviser didnt send 
instructions to transfer part of the cash holdings until 16 January 2018, at which point the 
request was carried out in a reasonable amount of time. He said the adviser  could have 
asked for the cash element to have  been transferred before the in-specie transfers  were  
made. He thought that Transact had compensated Mr S for the delay it caused in 
transferring one of the assets within the SIPP and felt its payment of £200  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  was fair and reasonable.
He also didnt believe that Transact  had applied advised and non-advised charges to the 
plan and noted Mr S couldnt provide any evidence to show where that had occurred. So he 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. 
Mr S agreed with the adjudicators findings regarding the first point of his complaint about the 
delay in transferring.  But he didnt agree about  the non-advised  charges hed incurred. He 
said hed not been aware of that situation  before and felt it was unacceptable for a platform 
to charge him for non-advising. He said he wanted a refund  of these charges.
So the adjudicator looked at the charges applied by the original provider. He thought that the 
provider had applied  charges fairly and in line with its T&Cs. He noted that, where Mr S 
didnt have an adviser, the provider increased its commission  rates in order to reflect its 
higher operating costs for providing a range of services that would otherwise be provided by 
an adviser. In this case he felt that the provider  had applied its charges in line with its T&Cs.
 
But Mr S remained dissatisfied  and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, 
so its been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicator and for largely the same reasons.
The possible  delay in transferring the cash
Ive seen evidence  to confirm that Transacts approach to full pension transfers is to wait and 
transfer the cash along with the other assets, when  theyve  been sold or re-registered, in 
case any further fees are due before  the account is closed.. 
In this case the cash was available  from October 2017  as evidenced in the half year report 
that Mr S received around that time.  Transact  would have accepted an instruction  to transfer 
some of the cash from the adviser  from that date, as the responsibility for such decisions 
rested with the adviser. The T&Cs of the plan explain that we will carry out all instructions 
from you or your adviser on an execution-only  basis.
But Transact didnt  receive an instruction until January 2018  when it then applied  the cash 
to the plan. So I dont think Transact  did anything wrong that might have delayed  things and I 
think it did what it said it would. It did acknowledge a delay in transferring one of the assets 
Ref: DRN14840443which it compensated Mr S for  which he has told us he accepted.  So I dont think  Transact 
should have to do anything further there.
The non-advisory charges and whether they were  excessive
Ive seen that Transact received an instruction to remove Mr Ss previous adviser as the 
servicing agent for his plan in March  2016.  Ive also seen that an instruction  to add his new 
adviser was signed  by Mr S on 23 July 2017. So Im satisfied that between  these  dates Mr S 
didnt have an adviser looking after his plan. I note that Transacts  T&Cs at the time 
contained the following clause  relating to the charges.
Clause (9) (3) Charges  without an Adviser
For any temporary period during which you do not have an Adviser appointed  (for example, 
because your Adviser has gone out of business) the percentage multipliers  for Buy 
Commission and Annual Commission shall be increased by adding the following percentage 
rates to them:
Buy Commission (using New Cash) 3.00%
Buy Commission (using Switch Cash) 0.80%
Annual Commission (Cash) 0.30%
Annual Commission (Investments) 0.50%.
So I think Transact was clear in stating that these charges  would apply during the period 
between 2016  and 2017 when Mr S didnt have an adviser. And looking at the statements 
from that time I can see that non-advised annual commission was taken  from Mr Ss 
account from October 2016 until July 2017  which was within the period Mr S didnt have an 
adviser. Ive then gone on to look at the actual calculation of the fees involved and Im 
satisfied that the charge was calculated  according  to the 0.30 and 0.5% split between  the 
value of cash and investments  held in the SIPP  each month in question.
I think Transact did set out in its T&Cs what charges it would apply to Mr Ss SIPP  where no 
adviser was involved.  And I think it applied those charges correctly here, and for the 
appropriate period of time. As soon as Mr S had a new adviser the charges reverted to 
annual payment-adviser.  I know Mr S says that hes not aware of any other platform that 
charges this way and he thinks  its wrong  to be charged where  no advice is given. I have  
some sympathy for Mr Ss position  here, but I think Transact is entitled to levy charges for 
any services it says it provides, regardless of what other businesses might  do, as long as it 
makes clients  aware of the charges  which in this case I think  it did.
Mr S has suggested that these charges  were  excessive. But in most circumstances, there is 
no regulatory limit on the amount that a provider can take by way of charges or fees.  Here  
Transact has explained that it offers services  and facilities that an adviser can pass on to a 
client, so if no adviser  exists then these  services and facilities are still available  from 
Transact if required. But in any case I cant safely say Transacts charges are high and we 
wouldnt normally comment on the level of charges  that have been set  if the provider has 
laid them  out previously   which I think Transact has done  here . 
Compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused
Ref: DRN14840444Mr S first complained about the delay in the transfer of his SIPP  assets to his new provider, 
and Transact  explained  that it didnt think it had delayed the cash  element of the transfer as 
it hadnt received  a transfer instruction. But it did accept that it had delayed the transfer of 
one asset. 
As well as compensating Mr S for the investment loss he had suffered over the delay, 
Transact also paid Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive carefully 
considered the impact  this had on Mr S and Ive seen that it did cause him some disruption 
to his retirement planning. So, in this case I think the payment of £200 is fair and reasonable 
and broadly in line with what I would  have recommended in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in so much as I think  the total 
compensation Integrated  Financial Arrangements Ltd T/A Transact paid is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1484044