K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked her debit card while  she was abroad,  
and left her stranded without access to her account.
background 
Miss G has a current account with Barclays. In 2017 she moved abroad. In late 2017  her 
estranged mother emailed her to say that she had tried to pay a cheque into Miss Gs 
account, only for Barclays to tell her that the account  was closed. Miss G interpreted  this as 
a fraudulent attempt to misuse her account, so she called Barclays  to complain and to ask it 
to secure her account. Miss G says that during the call, Barclays  told her her address  and 
phone number (as recorded on the account), which she realised had been changed without 
her knowledge.  So to protect  her account,  Barclays blocked her account  and updated  her 
address to the one she was staying at abroad  (and also changed  its record of her mothers 
maiden name).
At the time,  Barclays assured Miss G that it would not block her debit card.  But Miss G 
insists that her card still stopped working after that, despite the banks promises. She 
complains that this left her stranded high and dry in a foreign country without  access  to her 
money. She was unable  to pay for a flight home  or for food and accommodation, forcing  her 
to live with an acquaintance  who harassed  her and made her feel like a burden.  She says 
the stress  of her situation, exacerbated by how her acquaintance treated her, caused her to 
collapse, and she was taken to hospital.  She says this led to a large hospital bill.
Miss G further complains that Barclays staff were rude and unhelpful on the phone, and that 
they hung up on her. The phone calls were especially inconvenient because  of the time 
difference. Barclays wouldnt unblock  her account until it verified her identity, which it would 
not do on the phone.  She says Barclays told her to visit a branch in the UK with her 
passport, which  she was unable to do while abroad, because she couldnt afford to fly home. 
She says that she eventually managed  to open an account with a bank in the country where 
she was staying and transferred  money  to that account, but that this incurred charges, and a 
further charge  will be incurred when she transfers that money back  to a UK account.
Barclays told Miss G that someone trying  to pay a cheque into her account was not fraud. 
However, it was concerned that a third party appeared  to have compromised her account by 
changing her contact details. So it would not correspond with her further until she verified her 
identity (which she eventually did in April 2018).  In the meantime, Barclays referred  her to 
our Service,  and so Miss G brought this complaint  to us.
Barclays emphasised  the importance of protecting accounts from fraud. It said its records  
showed that it had only blocked  the account  and not the card, although  it later conceded  that 
blocking the account might have inadvertently had the effect of making  the card unusable.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in part. He thought that the bank had been entitled to 
block the account as a fraud prevention measure, and so the bank was not responsible for 
any consequences which had flowed from that. He also pointed out that the balance  of the 
Barclays account in November 2017  had been  less than £20, so he didnt think that Miss Gs 
difficulties had been foreseeable. But he thought that Barclays had been wrong to promise  
that her card wouldnt be affected, as that was not true. He also thought  the bank could have 
been more sympathetic. He initially recommended that Barclays  pay £500 compensation, 
Ref: DRN16988982although following  further submissions from the bank he agreed that this was too high, and 
reduced it to £300.
Neither party agreed to this recommendation. Barclays  accepted  that it had misled Miss G 
about her card, and agreed  to pay her £100  but no more. Miss G asked for £152,500. So this 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once Miss G told Barclays that her account had been compromised by a third party who had 
changed her contact details without her knowledge or consent, Barclays was obliged  to take 
action to secure her account and protect her money. I therefore think  it was reasonable of 
Barclays to seek to verify Miss Gs identity, because until that happened  Barclays had no 
way of knowing whether  the person it was communicating with was really  Miss G or a 
fraudster. Until it was satisfied that it was in contact  with the genuine account holder, it was 
prudent to block the account  in the meantime. So I dont think  Barclays  made  an error by 
blocking the account, other than to tell Miss G that her card would  not be affected, which  
turned out to be incorrect.
I agree  that Miss G should be compensated for being misled about whether her card would 
work. (I will come back to that later.) I think that when her account was blocked, that 
unavoidably meant that her card would stop working, and Barclays should not have told her 
otherwise. But even if that mistake had not been  made, and the relevant member of the 
banks staff had known that the card would  be disabled,  I think  that Barclays would still have 
been justified  in blocking her account, to protect her from fraud.
I have gone through the banks contact notes for the relevant period, and I can find no 
evidence that the bank  ever told Miss G that she had no choice but to physically visit a 
branch in the UK. That was one option  it mentioned, but at the same time it also told her 
that, as an alternative, she could just post a copy of her passport to a UK branch, together 
with a signed letter, so that it could compare these with the records  it already had on file. 
This is what  the bank  told her in an email on 23 December 2017:
Our Fraud department are not prepared to remove the blocks from your account 
and to reactivate your card until you have either visited a branch with photographic 
identification or you have provided us with a copy of your passport and a signed 
letter.
Miss G refused to do that, because it would take three weeks for the documents  to arrive  in 
the UK, during which she would remain without access to her account. Barclays replied on 
30 December in the following terms:
I must advise  that we will not access a faxed  or emailed  copy  of your passport and 
the handwritten  letter we have requested,  we will only accept a hard copy sent by 
post.  [Emphasis my own. (Access should probably read assess.)]
So I think Barclays made it clear  that it did not expect Miss G to travel to the UK.
I also note that Barclays  did not decide that it wished to see Miss Gs passport  straight  away.  
23 December was the first time Barclays asked to see it. Until then, it had only asked Miss G 
Ref: DRN16988983to identify herself in a phone call, or to provide a copy of her signature.  (Of course, providing 
her signature would have  taken just as long, but a phone call would  have taken no time at 
all.) On 23 November, 27 November, and 7 December,  Barclays invited Miss G to speak on 
the phone  and verify her identity that way. On the latter date, Barclays  wrote:
We are unable to address your concerns until we have  received a handwritten and 
signed letter  from you, or if we can confirm your identity by speaking to you on the 
telephone.
Miss G gave  a number of different reasons why a telephone call would  not be practical  or 
convenient, but I am bound to say that I do not find them to be very convincing. I do not think 
that it was unreasonable of Barclays to ask to speak to her on the phone, especially when 
the bank offered to call her so that she would not have to pay for an international call. It was 
only after a number of excuses had been  made,  over quite some time, that Barclays finally 
gave up and decided  to ask to see a copy of her passport instead. That was quite 
understandable, and I dont think that any criticism can fairly be made of that decision.
I will give three examples of the excuses Miss G gave Barclays  for not speaking  to it on the 
phone. One of them was that if Barclays phoned  her at the premises  where  she was staying, 
the sound of the phone ringing might  disturb  the other occupants.  That is self-evidently a 
poor excuse.  A second one was that Miss G did not, at that time, have access  to a phone, 
and she could only speak  to Barclays by using the Facetime service on her iPad, but the 
bank was unable  to communicate  with her in that fashion. I am not persuaded that she 
couldnt find a telephone  Barclays could  call her on. Thirdly, when she did give Barclays  a 
number to call her on, she got one of the digits wrong. That is plausible,  but it is hardly  the 
banks fault.
At one point  Miss G did phone Barclays and she left a voicemail. She then emailed  Barclays  
to tell it she had left a voicemail, and expressed  her hope that this would be enough to verify 
that she was the genuine  account holder. Im afraid I think that was rather optimistic of her, 
and I do not criticise Barclays for not accepting that as sufficient proof of her identity.
There was one occasion, on 15 December, when Miss G did speak to Barclays on the 
phone. The note made by the call handler  said customer couldnt hear me so  
[I] disconnected the call. I think that explains the allegation that the bank staff hung up on 
Miss G. I can see how that must have appeared to her, but I think it is an adequate 
explanation, and I dont have any reason to believe that the call handler  was rude to her on 
purpose.
I dont think that the bank  was intentionally being uncooperative with Miss G, although I do 
appreciate that she perceived it that way because the staff refused to deal with her until they 
had verified who she was. However,  I think that was unavoidable.
Instead of posting a copy of her passport, Miss G offered  to take her passport to a local 
branch of what she described  as an affiliate bank in the country she was in. However, 
I cant see that the bank  she referred  to has any connection with Barclays (other than that 
both banks are parties to an agreement with some other  banks to let each others customers 
use each others ATMs).  There were no branches  of Barclays  within a convenient distance 
of Miss Gs address. Barclays told her at the time that its accounts are intended to be used 
by customers who mainly  reside in the UK, to avoid precisely this kind of difficulty. Miss G 
had already been living abroad for about  three months by the time her Barclays account was 
Ref: DRN16988984blocked. She was not briefly visiting a foreign country on holiday, she had moved there to 
settle. But she had not yet opened  an account  with a bank based in her new country.
I gather  that Miss G eventually managed to open a new account with a bank in the country 
where she was living,  to which an international payment was made to provide her with 
money. She says this payment  could have been  made sooner if her Barclays  account had 
been available all along. I take her point, but on the other hand it isnt Barclays fault that she 
didnt already have an alternative  bank account she could use. But more  importantly than 
that, and as I have  already explained  above, I dont think Barclays was wrong to block her 
account, even  if this inevitably meant that she would be unable to use her debit  card. 
I have seen Miss Gs bank statements for the relevant period, and her account balance in 
November 2017  was less than £20. I think that is important, because Barclays  could not 
have foreseen  the difficulties she would encounter as a result of not having access  to the 
money in the account. Normally I would only require Barclays to pay compensation for 
consequences which should have been  foreseeable.  I dont think Barclays  could have 
foreseen that Miss G would be unable to afford  food or accommodation, or that her health 
would suffer. So I would not award  compensation for those issues,  even if I thought  they 
were the banks fault  which they werent, because Barclays was entitled  to block the 
account.
So the only thing  I agree that Barclays did wrong was to tell Miss G that her card would  
continue to work, when  this was incorrect. I must  therefore decide how much  compensation 
that is worth.
As I said earlier,  I think it was unavoidable that the card would be blocked when the account 
was blocked. But Barclays  should have warned Miss G that that would happen, and its 
failure to warn her meant that she had to find out the hard way. That must have come as 
quite a shock. She then realised that a block which she thought would only be mildly 
inconvenient was actually going  to be very inconvenient indeed.
Balanced against  that are the facts that the ensuing inconvenience would still have 
happened anyway,  and that Miss G did not do all she might have done  to alleviate those 
consequences by speaking to Barclays on the phone  when she had the opportunity  to do so. 
I think it would have  been much easier  to have the block lifted, and the card reactivated, than 
Miss G made it. Her troubles could  have been resolved much more  quickly  had she engaged 
with the bank and verified  her identity on the phone. For these reasons, I am persuaded that 
£100 is enough.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss G £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698898