K820x#14complaint
Mr C, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Marks & Spencer  
Financial Services Plc (Marks & Spencer) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in June 2002.  
background
Mr C bought the policy at the same time as taking out a Personal  Reserve  credit  facility 
account. I can see he applied for it by way of a leaflet application form.
He says the PPI wasnt explained to him and he didnt need it.
Although Mr C filled out the account  application,  the policy was put in the name  of Mrs C at 
his request. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Because Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicator his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Ive seen that Marks & Spencer has already offered Mr C a refund for undisclosed 
commission that it got from the PPI sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked very carefully at the sale paperwork and thought about everything that Mr C 
has told us about  the sale and also about  Mrs Cs circumstances.
I think its clear  from the application  form that the policy  is optional.  Mr C had to opt-in  to 
taking it by ticking a box. The form also needed  to include Mrs Cs full name and date of 
birth, which Mr C had added. 
Although I can see that the form uses the words  strongly recommend about taking out the 
cover, I dont think this implies the box had to be ticked. If anything, I think  the use of the 
word recommend implies that there is a choice.  Also, I dont think  the use of the words 
strongly recommend in this context amounts to a personal recommendation that the 
policy was right for the person  to be covered. So Marks & Spencer didnt have to check if 
the PPI was suitable. It did, however,  have  to give provide clear information  about the PPI 
so Mr C could make up his own mind about whether  to take it. In this instance, Mr C 
decided to nominate Mrs C to be covered by the policy. 
Its possible the information Marks & Spencer  gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  The application form sets how the monthly  cost of the policy  was 
calculated  but I cant see that it says this could attract  interest. And the monthly  benefit  
Ref: DRN13980112isnt clearly mentioned  either. But I dont think its likely that better information would have 
affected Mr Cs decision  to go ahead  with the policy.
I say this because  I think  the PPI was useful to Mr C, which  in this situation means that 
Mrs C ought to have  been able to make a successful claim on the policy.  From what  Ive 
seen Mrs C was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected by any of the main terms and 
conditions. 
Although Mrs C was entitled to some benefits from her own employer if she was unable  to 
work  of around  6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay - the PPI could still 
pay out the benefit in addition to other sources of income and up until the balance of the 
account was clear. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mr C buying it and 
putting the cover in Mrs Cs name. 
Ive taken into account the further  points made to our adjudicator  on behalf of Mr and Mrs C 
but they dont  change  my conclusion. Im sorry to have disappoint them  on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. And its my understanding  that 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has already paid him the PPI commission  refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398011