K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt remove  all his possessions  when it 
disposed of his car under  his motor  insurance  policy. He wants further compensation for the 
trouble and upset  this caused.
background
Mr Ss car was declared a total loss and UKI intended to dispose  of the salvage. Mr S said 
he wasnt permitted to recover his personal  possessions from the car but UKI said it would 
arrange for these  to be sent to him before the car was sold.  But Mr S then found that bank  
statements and other documents had been left in the car and accessed by someone. UKI 
offered him £200 compensation for this, but Mr S didnt think this was enough.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The documents  had 
been found by the new owner in the car and UKI agreed that it hadnt thoroughly searched 
the car. Mr Ss private information  hadnt been used to date. UKI apologised  for its 
dismissive initial response  to Mr Ss complaint. So she thought £200 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the impact  the error had on Mr S. 
Mr S replied  that UKI had relied on the word of the cars new owner  about  how the 
documents had been found. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer makes a mistake,  as UKI agrees it has done here, our approach is that they 
must restore the consumers position  as far as its possible to do so. We also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer.
UKI sold Mr Ss car with documents containing  his personal contact and bank details  left 
inside. The new owner told UKI that he had found these under the cars  rear seats when he 
removed them for cleaning. Mr S thought this was unlikely. I cant say how the documents  
were found,  but it seems  accepted that they had been left in the car. UKI agreed that the 
search of the car should have been  more thorough, so I dont think where they were found 
has any further bearing on Mr Ss complaint.
When Mr S first contacted  UKI about this, the advisor tried to close the matter without 
resolving it. UKI later agreed that this was poor service and the complaint was closed 
prematurely. It apologised for this. It also investigated and responded to Mr Ss complaint, so 
his position was restored. 
Mr S said hed been denied the opportunity to visit the salvage  yard to recover his 
possessions because of safety concerns. UKI said it was unable to find a call where Mr S 
had been told this. 
Ref: DRN13509712Ive looked at UKIs file notes and I cant see any record  that Mr S raised recovering his 
possessions with UKI until he accepted its valuation of his car. Mr S later told us that hed 
called the garage  and was denied access.  UKIs notes do say that it called the salvage agent 
to arrange for it to sweep the car and return Mr Ss possessions  to him. A box of items was 
then returned  to Mr S.
So whilst I dont doubt that Mr S was denied opportunity to recover his possessions, I 
havent evidence  to say who was responsible for this. But, in any case, I cant  say that this 
caused Mr S further loss as UKI has already  agreed  that the car wasnt  cleared completely. 
Mr S said that because of the error, he had been  advised to change his debit card,  though I 
cant see evidence that he did this. He said he then had to scrutinise his bank statements to 
check for any misuse. Its now over a year since Mr Ss car passed from his possession  and 
nine months since the new owner found  the documents. But I cant  see that Mr Ss personal 
information has been misused. 
I can understand that this matter caused Mr S upset and worry. He said he is now monitoring 
his bank account. But I cant see that the error had further impact  on him. And so I think 
UKIs offer of £200 compensation  for this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what 
Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require it to increase this. 
As the investigator  has already  explained,  if Mr S finds that his personal information has 
been used, then he can complain to UKI again.  It has already agreed  that in this case it 
would consider further compensation.  The investigator also explained that he can also raise 
his concerns about data breaches with the Information Commissioners  Office. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1350971