K820x#14complaint
E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its accounts and hasnt  released  the funds 
that were held in them.
The complaint is brought  by Es director, Mr A.
background
E had a business  bank account and foreign  currency  account  with Barclays.
In April 2018, E received an international payment of just under $680,000  USD into its 
foreign currency account. Some  of those funds were transferred into its current  account. A 
few days later, Barclays reviewed Es accounts   restricting access while  it did so. 
Barclays wrote to E later that month, saying it had decided to close its accounts immediately. 
Mr A remained unable  to access the funds.
When Mr A complained, Barclays stood by its decision. Initially, it said that Mr A would  need  
to provide proof of his entitlement to the money paid into the account  in order for the funds to 
be released. But it later said that theyd  been returned to the sender  so suggested Mr A 
speak with them directly.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr A referred  the matter to us. He said that the bank was 
still holding  Es funds, without a proper explanation  as to why and even though  hed provided 
proof of entitlement at the outset. He also said that the issue had caused E to miss out on a 
lucrative business contract.
One of our investigators  looked into things, but she didnt think  Barclays had done  anything 
wrong. She thought that Barclays  had acted reasonably in returning the payment to the 
sender on the basis of the information it had been  provided with, including what  Mr A had 
sent to support his claim. And she said Barclays had been entitled to withdraw  Es banking 
facilities in light of its review of the accounts.
As Mr A didnt accept  our investigators  view,  his complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions  of Es accounts,  Barclays was entitled  to review the 
accounts and to suspend (and ultimately  withdraw) its services. Its required to have  such 
measures in place  to fulfil a number  of legal and regulatory obligations.
Here, I think  the decision to review Es accounts was justified. Barclays  received information 
from the senders  bank   recalling the payment  on the basis  that its customer hadnt 
authorised the payment. So it put a hold on the funds while it reviewed  the matter,  during 
which time it asked E to provide  proof  of its entitlement to the funds. I think  that was a 
reasonable step for Barclays to take.
Ref: DRN18058702Mr A was only able to provide limited evidence of Es entitlement  to the funds. Given  this, 
and set against the claim made by the sending bank, I dont think Barclays decision to return 
the funds was unreasonable. Ultimately, if E is entitled to the funds then it is able to pursue 
the matter directly with the sender.
Mr A says Barclays  didnt actually return the funds to the sender. But from what  Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that it did. Mr A says its not proven that to him, but I dont think its required  to do that.
Barclays also decided to close  Es accounts following its review. Its entitled to do this, in the 
same way that a customer  can choose to close an account if they wish.  This was also 
provided for within the terms  and conditions, which set out that Barclays could close the 
accounts immediately  in certain  circumstances. So Barclays was entitled to take the action it 
did, and I dont find its decision unreasonable in the circumstances  here. That decision was 
also clearly communicated to E, so it knew what was happening.
Mr A is unhappy at how Barclays handled the matter, as he thinks  it misinformed and misled 
him about what was happening. While  I think the key steps were clearly  communicated  as 
set out above,  I can see where hes coming  from here  I think he was given incorrect 
information on at least a couple  of occasions as to exactly where the funds were  held and 
the possibility  of reclaiming  them. But I dont  think thats really had a material  impact on 
things, and its not caused a level of inconvenience  to warrant  any compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1805870