K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained PPRO Financial  Limited wont refund  him for transactions  that 
happened on his prepaid card after it was stolen in September 2018.
background
Mr S was out in a nightclub in the morning of 23 September 2018.  His prepaid card was 
stolen. He quickly noticed that thered been three  €500 withdrawals at cash  machines (as 
well as a €5 withdrawal fee per transaction).
He got in touch with PPRO. They refused to refund him as they said hed not met the terms 
and conditions of the card. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator got some basic information  from PPRO  but wasnt able to get more detailed  
information showing Mr Ss overall transactions, his account usage or monitoring of his 
account. But in emails with Mr S, our investigator was able to get his side of had happened.  
Mr S had used his prepaid card and PIN in a nightclub shortly before his card was used 
without his authorisation.
Our investigator felt there was enough  evidence to show Mr Ss card had been stolen and 
used fraudulently. He also couldnt  see any evidence from PPRO that Mr S had acted with 
gross negligence in looking  after his card and PIN. He asked PPRO  to refund Mr S in full, 
along with 8% simple  interest.
As PPRO didnt respond to this view, Mr Ss complaint has been passed  to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached almost the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the limited evidence  of the transactions,  
as well as what Mr S has told us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 3 February  2020.  I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the 
complaint thoroughly.
Ref: DRN12094162The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Theres no dispute Mr S had his prepaid card stolen.
Hed used  his card shortly before this happened. This offers a clear point of compromise 
where someone could  have noticed  Mr S use his card and PIN.
The use made of Mr Ss card is typical of what wed see when someones card is stolen  
and the PIN known.  It was used three times  in quick succession to take out €500 each 
time and then not used again.
PPRO has provided us with nothing  apart from their terms and conditions  to show  
Mr S acted  in a way that could be considered grossly negligent.
In any case this is a high bar to get over.
Id also add that we expect businesses  to respond to our requests  for further  information  and 
I can take the fact that we received nothing into consideration. Our rules say (under DISP  
3.5.9) I am able to:
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been  supplied and take account  of the failure  
by a party to provide information requested
PPRO has not responded any further or, in fact, responded to our investigators  view. This is 
a shame. It seems to me if theyd managed Mr Ss complaint properly under the regulations 
that apply to disputed transactions, this could have been sorted out immediately rather than 
Mr S having  to wait 18 months for a resolution. I believe it would be fair, as well as refunding 
Mr S in full, PPRO also pay him €100  in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  PPRO  Financial Limited  to:
Refund €1,515 to Mr S;
Add 8% simple interest to this amount  from 23 September 2018 to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mr S €100 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1209416