K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about twelve payday  loans  that Quick Quid provided to Mr T from April 
2008 onwards.  Mr Ts last loan was provided  in January 2011.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought that Quick Quid shouldnt have 
provided the loans  five onwards to Mr T. Quick Quid disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr T, I think Quick  
Quid should reasonably have seen  Mr T was unlikely to have been able to make his loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan five. I say this because:
Ref: DRN13582812by this stage, Mr T was into his twelfth consecutive month of owing Quick  Quid 
money. In my view,  Mr Ts pattern of borrowing up until this point  was in itself a clear 
demonstration of Mr Ts inability to settle  his loans over the life of the credit  
agreement. Indeed  hed run into difficulty repaying loan four and it took him six 
months to repay a loan that should have been repaid in two.
Mr T continued  to be provided  with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr T was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I accept that 
some of the loans  were  for smaller amounts but these were then followed by larger 
ones.
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Quick Quid  and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan twelve  was 
provided approaching  three years after Mr Ts first. And Mr T owed more  than double  
as much at this stage.  This meant that Mr T paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr T lost out because Quick Quid provided loans two to eight because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Quick Quid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ts ability  to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the loans from loan two onwards and Quick  Quid  
should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  five to eleven;
the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan twelve included  interest  and charges that Mr T 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded amounts from the date they were 
paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr T owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information still 
recorded about the upheld loans is adverse. So all entries about loans five to eleven, 
should there remain any, should  be removed from Mr Ts credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN13582813my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358281