K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the loss he suffered on a contract for difference (CFD) he had open 
on Trading 212 UK Limited T/A Trading 212s platform. He complains that an error caused  
his trade  not to close when it was in profit, and it therefore remained open until it was closed 
via margin call. 
background
On 16 January 2018 Mr P had several  open CFDs  on various currency pairs,  including the 
EUR/CHF (Euro to Swiss Franc). This trade  was closed on 18 January 2018  via margin call, 
causing Mr P a loss of around $630.
Mr P complained to Trading 212 about this. He said that around 9.30 am that same morning, 
he logged into his account through the application on his phone, and successfully closed this 
trade for a profit of around $115.  He acknowledged  that he hadnt received confirmation of 
this trade,  but said this must have been due to a problem  on Trading 212s platform because  
his trading strategy involved closing trades  as soon as they began  to lose money or make  
profits. 
Trading 212 looked into the complaint and didnt  consider it could uphold  it. It said that the 
trade he was complaining  about, EUR/CHF, was closed on 18 January 2018 because  he 
had insufficient  margin to keep it open. It said that it had no record of him trying to close the 
trade on 16 January,  and it confirmed that it was unaware of any particular problems on its 
website which wouldve prevented Mr P from closing the trade  when he wanted to. It said 
that Mr P had acknowledged  that he wouldve normally  received a confirmation email  from 
the platform when  the trade was closed  so it queried why he took no action between 
16 January and 18 January 2018  when  he didnt receive any such confirmation  about this 
particular trade. 
Mr P disagreed with Trading 212 and brought his complaint  to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint but she also didnt consider it could be upheld.  She 
considered there was insufficient evidence to conclude that Mr P had closed  the relevant 
trade. Instead, she thought that the trade had been  closed correctly  via margin  call. She 
didnt think Trading  212  did anything wrong, and therefore didnt recommend any 
compensation. 
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicator. He maintained  that his trading strategy  involved 
closing trades as soon  as they began to make a loss, and he would never have let this 
particular trade lose so much money.  He asked the adjudicator to obtain  more information 
from Trading 212. In particular, he said he wanted to see the history  of the trade  [] from 
start to finish. The adjudicator didnt consider this evidence would change the outcome and 
maintained her view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN12596982Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P, but I also dont have much to add to what the adjudicator has 
already told him. 
Other than his testimony, which Ive considered very carefully, Ive seen no other  evidence  
that he tried to close the trade in question  on 16 January. The evidence  Ive seen indicates 
that at around  9.15am he opened  the relevant trade, and at around  10am  he added a take 
profit order  to it. 
Mr P was then logged into this account  throughout the day, and the following days,  and there 
was no evidence he took any steps to close this particular trade. 
And Ive seen evidence that Trading 212 sent Mr P margin call emails when his account had 
insufficient margin to keep his trade open.  One such email at around  1.40am on 17 January 
explained that he needed to add around  $124  to his account and that his trade  would be 
closed if the available margin in his account  dropped below 25%. 
I acknowledge that Mr P replied to his email and queried why the trade  wasnt closed. But 
Im not persuaded this is sufficient evidence  to conclude that he had previously successfully 
closed his trade. I say this because it wouldve been  clear  to him, when looking at his 
account, from 9.30am  onwards on 16 January that the trade had not been  closed.  And he 
has accepted  himself that generally, when closing  a trade he would receive  a confirmation 
text or email from Trading  212  and this didnt  happen here. 
So taking all this into account,  Im satisfied that Trading 212 did nothing  wrong in Mr Ps 
case. Im persuaded it received no order from Mr P to close  the relevant trade on 16 January 
2018, nor did Mr P add margin  when  asked to do so. So it correctly closed the trade on 18 
January 2018,  unfortunately  causing  Mr P a loss. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by 
my decision  but Im satisfied the loss he was caused  was a trading loss. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1259698