K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that BNP Paribas Cardif Limited trading as Warranty  Direct mis-sold 
him a motor  warranty policy.
background
Mr K has previously  complained about a claim he made against his policy that has been 
dealt with separately by this service so I wont comment further on this within  my decision.
In 2017 Mr K renewed his motor warranty policy held with Warranty Direct. Mr K had 
renewed his policy every year since 2009.  Mr K had also made  12 successful claims under 
the policy over the time it was held.
Mr K has specifically  said that the policy is misleading as it states under the requirements 
and recommendation section that the policy  provides cover for failure but later limits claims 
to those that cause  a breakdown.
Mr K has also said that in his most recent policy document  provided by Warranty  Direct the 
word failure  has been replaced with the word breakdown which supports his complaint that 
the wording was previously misleading. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt  think  it should be upheld because  
she didnt think the policy had been  mis-sold or that it was misleading. Mr K disagreed  with 
our investigators view so this complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Warranty Direct recommended the policy to Mr K so it had to take reasonable steps to check 
it was right for him. It also had to give Mr K clear information for him to decide  if he wanted  to 
take it out.
Ive looked at the eligibility criteria of the policy and can see that Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time the policy was taken  meant that he was eligible for it.
When Mr K renewed his policy he was sent a full copy of the terms and conditions.  The 
terms and conditions clearly set out what  was covered under the policy, and the exclusions 
that applied.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about the statement above being misleading. I accept 
the wording on the recommendations page refers to failure rather  than breakdown. But 
having considered this alongside the terms of the policy  I dont agree. I think  the context  of 
the words are the same as the policy is designed to cover  a part that has either  failed or 
broken. And I think the documentation  was clear about what  the policy  covered Mr K for. 
Mr K has claimed 12 times under  the policy since 2009 and has renewed his policy  each 
year, including 2018, the year after a claim was declined. Mr K has told us that he only took 
the policy in 2018 because having  weighed up the cost and benefits of taking another policy 
he thought it was the most suitable  option for him, and the reason he renewed the policy in 
Ref: DRN104910322018 is irrelevant.  But I think it shows that Mr K was aware of what the policy  covered  and 
decided he wanted  to take it out, even having considered the alternatives available to him. 
Having considered all of the information available I think Warranty Directs  recommendation 
was reasonable  and I think Mr K chose to take the policy. So I dont think Mr Ks policy  was 
mis-sold and I dont think Warranty Direct should  have to do anything to resolve Mr Ks 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049103