K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that Society of Lloyds (SoL) unfairly declined his claim under  his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to SoL includes  their agents.
background
In the summer  of 2016, Mr K took his car to a garage for them to look into a problem it had. 
Mr K said he was told that while the car was being  test driven by the garage, its engine  blew 
causing very serious damage.  He believes the engine blew as a result  of staff at the garage 
driving his car recklessly and excessively. Mr K shipped his car to a specialist mechanic 
abroad. That mechanic examined  the car and did a report  in which  he concluded the 
damage was caused by abuse and negligence  of the garage Mr K took it to. 
Mr K claimed for the damage  under his policy. But SoL didnt accept the claim as they said 
the incident that led to the damage  wasnt covered under his policy. They quoted  an 
exclusion under  the policy  that said the following wasnt covered Failures,  breakdowns or 
breakages of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment. Mr K complained, 
but SoL didnt uphold  it.
Mr K didn't  think that was fair so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. She felt that SoLs decision to reject  the claim was reasonable. 
But our adjudicator felt that the claims handling process could have been better, so she 
recommended that SoL should  pay Mr K £100 compensation to address that. As Mr K didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr K, but Im only upholding this complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
Mr K has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all of those very carefully. 
But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is to decide 
if SoL have  dealt with Mr A in a fair and reasonable way.
the claim for accidental damage
Mr Ks car was damaged while it was in the care of his garage. The experts report 
concludes the damage was caused by abuse and negligence by the garage, specifically 
that it must  have been driven recklessly  whereby over  revving  the engine occurred. There  
is no suggestion that the car was involved in an accident with a physical object, such as 
another car, or that it was struck by anything.
The policy says that Mr K is covered for accidental  damage. But damage  caused  by any of 
the following  is specifically excluded from cover: Failures, breakdowns or breakages  of 
mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment.
Accidental is not defined  in the policy so I think the ordinary, everyday meaning  should be 
used. I think a reasonable definition includes unforeseen, unintentional and unexpected. I 
Ref: DRN12951812think its reasonable to conclude  that if the damage to the car happened  while  it was with 
Mr Ks garage, it was accidental. The experts  opinion is that the car was driven  recklessly  
which resulted in multiple failures and breaking of certain mechanical components in the 
engine. In other words,  the damage was caused  by mechanical failure. I therefore think the 
damage falls within  the exclusion Ive outlined  above. Mr Ks argument is that while  he 
accepts there was failure/breakage  to mechanical components  of the engine, he says that 
was caused by the negligence  of his garage. But irrespective of how they were caused,  the 
engine still suffered mechanical  failure  and breakage. And those are things specifically 
excluded by his policy. So I think SoL were reasonable in refusing the claim.
poor service
I think the service provided by SoL could have  been better. Mr K was particularly unhappy at 
the lack of communication. He repeatedly asked for SoL to contact his expert abroad so that 
the expert could help by providing information about  the car. But SoL rejected the claim 
without first giving  Mr K a reasonable opportunity  to get an experts report.  I think SoL could  
have done more to direct Mr K as to what  information was needed and in what  format.  In 
their letter rejecting the claim, SoL told Mr K they would  reconsider the position  if he got an 
experts report. Mr K then provided  a report and asked for updates on numerous  occasions 
but SoL didnt always respond.  And I can understand  this must have been a source  of 
frustration for him as he was keen to find out whether or not his claim would be paid. To 
address this I require  SoL to pay Mr K £100 compensation to address the poor service.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Society  of Lloyds 
to pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. This 
should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr K has accepted my final decision.  If 
they pay later than this they must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If SoL consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr K how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1295181