K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about a boiler he acquired through  a conditional  sale agreement with 
A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASGB).
background
In April 2015, a new boiler was fitted  in a property which Mr P rents out to tenants. Mr P says 
as a result  of ASGB failing to carry out an effective powerflush, the boiler filled with debris 
causing the heat exchanger to rust and the boiler  to perform as not expected. Mr P says this 
caused problems  with fluctuating hot water.
In March 2018, an ASGB engineer went to rectify the issue  with fluctuating hot water.  Some  
work was carried out and Mr P was advised that if this issue  reoccurred, a manual flush  or 
powerflush would need to be carried out. The engineer said that they would return to replace  
the heat plate which Mr P would need to pay for once the powerflush was done   the heat 
plate was replaced on 15 August 2019. The engineer also mentioned  the radiators in the 
property were quite old and that this was the cause of the issue.
In May 2018, Mr P experienced further  issues with fluctuating hot water and so paid for a 
powerflush to be carried  out on the boiler  by a third party engineer.
In June 2018, Mr P reported a further  fault with the boiler. ASGB said that this fault related to 
a short  circuit which  they say was unrelated to the fluctuating  hot water  that Mr P had been 
reporting. 
Mr P says that none of the issues are likely  to have occurred had ASGB carried out the 
installation with reasonable care and skill. Mr P wants  a full refund for the powerflush he 
arranged to be carried out and compensation for the stress  and inconvenience  this has 
caused him.
ASGB say a powerflush was carried out with reasonable  care and skill at the time of 
installation and that a further flush was required due to the age of the radiators (and/or 
existing pipework) which Mr P has said are 15 years old. ASGB  dont think the issues Mr P 
reported were due to the way the boiler  was installed or steps taken at the time of 
installation.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns. He said looking at the evidence  provided, he 
didnt think a powerflush had been carried out with reasonable care and skill by ASGB upon 
installation of the boiler. He said he didnt think the issues  Mr P reported were  to due failure 
on Mr Ps part to maintain  the system. He also said that the third party inspection report 
showed the heat plate  exchanger was in a poor condition  and this along with the debris, was 
as a result  of an ineffective powerflush  completed  on installation.  So he asked ASGB  to pay 
Mr P:
refund  the cost incurred to conduct  a further powerflush (£310.47) plus 8% simple  
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
replace the 'plate' referred to in remedial/advisory notice at no cost to Mr P if not 
already done (If already  completed  and Mr P has been  charged for this - refund  the 
cost plus 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement)
£150.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN14989892ASGB responded and in summary they said the report carried  out by the third party was 
invalid as they say the engineer wasnt  suitably qualified  to be able to offer an expert  opinion  
on the matter for several reasons. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P acquired the boiler under a conditional  sale agreement. Under this type of agreement 
ASGB is the supplier  of the goods  and is responsible for fulfilling its obligations as set out in 
the agreement, and any terms which are implied  by relevant law. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into consideration  amongst  other  things  
the relevant law and in particular the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and also the Supply of Goods 
and Services Act 1982. Without going into great detail, the relevant effect  of these pieces of 
legislation is that any goods ASGB supplied under the agreement needed to have been of 
satisfactory quality, and any services would  need  to have been carried  out with reasonable 
care and skill.
I note ASGB  have  said a powerflush was carried out at the time of installing the boiler. And 
theyve provided  a document to show Mr P agreed that a powerflush had been carried out. 
But I cant just rely on a signed piece  of paper to say someone was happy  with an 
installation  Id need to consider the whole circumstances presented to me. In particular, I 
wouldnt expect Mr P to know a power  flush had been carried out with reasonable care and 
skill because he isnt an expert.  So I dont think his signature on the document indicated the 
power flush was carried  out to the appropriate standard.
Mr P has provided a report from a third party independent engineer. A heat plate exchanger  
allows heat to be exchanged between two fluids  or substances, usually  water  or gas, without 
letting the substances mix together. The report indicates that due to the amount of rust that 
had built up on the heat plate exchanger over such a short  period of time and the water 
being so clear, it seems  unlikely that an effective powerflush was carried  out on installation. 
The report  says that water in a heating system  being so clear  possibly shows that the 
inhibitor wasnt added  to the heating system at the time which  is necessary to prevent a build 
up of debris in the system in the future. And the report also explained there was a lot of 
debris in the filter which the engineer had to clean out.
ASGB have provided  several reasons as to why they think the third party  report is unreliable. 
I want to assure ASGB that I have  considered  everything they have told me in my decision.
But I think the report is credible enough for me to rely on. I say this because  the report 
provides a thorough and detailed account  of what the third party  saw in the boiler  and also 
provides detail around the condition of the radiators at Mr Ps property.  Even if I did think that 
the third party  engineer  wasnt suitably qualified to offer an expert opinion,  its clear from the 
commentary in the report that the rust was easily identifiable. I dont think  it requires an 
engineer to have  qualifications to be able to visually identify any damage.  
At the time of the installation, Mr P said the engineer  was only there for a couple  of hours. A 
power-flush is a procedure for cleaning the existing pipework and radiators in a heating  
system to prevent any rust and sludge  causing  damage to the boiler. Evidence online 
suggests a full powerflush is likely  to take most of a day, so it seems  unlikely the procedure  
was completed properly.
Ref: DRN14989893From what  I know, a powerflush is recommended every five to six years to ensure a boiler is 
kept in the best condition and working  as expected. In this case, it was only three years from 
the point of installation that Mr P experienced problems with the boiler and its function. 
ASGB blame the age of Mr Ps existing pipework for a lot of the problems, but I dont think  
this is the main reason the boiler wasnt working properly. And I have no reason to discredit  
the report provided by the third party engineer. Having considered everything in the round, 
Im persuaded that ASGB didnt carry out the installation with reasonable care and skill.
Although I accept ASGB took some action to clean  out the plate blockage in March  2018, Im 
not convinced  this resolved the underlying issue with the fluctuating  hot water and Ill explain 
why.
I can see from the paperwork provided by ASGB that the engineer managed to clean the 
plate to plate blockage enough  to get the boiler working again. But I cant  see that other 
parts of the boiler were  inspected, cleaned or replaced, meaning these could still have been 
contaminated with debris. While its not possible to know this for sure, given the water in the 
system was clear (as commented  on in the third party engineers  report), despite what ASGB  
have said that the debris can be caused by old pipework, it appears unlikely to me the debris 
could have come from anywhere  else. Based on the available  evidence, I think  the debris 
which blocked the plate was most likely down to an ineffective powerflush upon  installation.
I can see from the paperwork provided by ASGB that following their inspection in March 
2018, that they would replace the plate exchanger once Mr P arranges for a powerflush  to 
be carried out. At this point, the report explains that the engineer had managed to clean the 
plate enough to remove the blockage  to get the boiler working again. Once the powerflush 
was carried out, Mr P arranged for the heat plate to be replaced  in August 2019. As 
explained, in this report the third party engineer  saw significant rust build up on the heat 
plate which  suggests  to me that the heat plate was still contaminated at that point. Having 
thought about everything,  I believe the heat plate was most likely  contaminated from the very 
start  I think the cleaning  of the plate  in March 2018 was a temporary fix to allow the boiler 
to work. 
Mr P paid for the cost of this replacement as this was done outside  of the warranty  period. 
As Ive concluded that the debris  which blocked  the plate was down to an ineffective 
powerflush upon installation, I think ASGB should refund Mr P the cost he paid for 
replacement plate.
Despite ASGBs detailed  response to the investigators view,  Ive not seen any new evidence 
from them to convince me that the issues Mr P had with his boiler are not most likely the 
direct result of it not being installed properly in the first instance.
ASGB have said the issue reported  by Mr P in June 2018 was in relation to a short  circuit in 
the power circuit board (PCB).  ASGB  have confirmed the PCB was replaced and as this was 
covered under the warranty, Mr P didnt pay for the replacement. Im satisfied ASGB  dont 
need to do anything more here as Im persuaded this issue  isnt related to the powerflush not 
being completed effectively upon  installation of the boiler.     
ASGB had a responsibility to carry out the installation (which  included the powerflush 
process) with reasonable care and skill. In my view they failed to do so, which most likely 
lead to blockages  of the boiler which I think they were  responsible  for putting  right.  Had the 
Ref: DRN14989894powerflush been carried out effectively,  I dont think its likely the heat plate wouldve 
become blocked  by debris within three years after installation.
In order to put things  right, ASGB needs to put Mr P back in the position hed have been, in 
had the installation been carried out with reasonable care and skill. So in addition  to a refund 
for the replacement plate,  I think ASGB should  also refund Mr P the amount he paid the third 
party engineer to carry out a powerflush in May 2018. 
Mr P has told us this issue caused  him a lot of stress and inconvenience  especially as he 
had to arrange for the issues to be resolved on behalf of the tenants living in the property. I 
can understand the inconvenience for Mr P to arrange himself for an effective powerflush to 
be done and for the heat exchanger plate to be replaced. In the circumstances, I think  ASGB  
should pay Mr P £150 compensation.
I note ASGB  have  said they are prepared to report the third party engineer  Mr P instructed 
for the powerflush  to the relevant boards as he doesnt hold the relevant qualifications. 
However, I want to make  it clear  that its not my role to comment on this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require A Shade Greener (Boilers)  LLP to:
refund  the cost Mr P paid for the powerflush that was carried out in May 2018 plus 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
refund  the cost of the heat plate that was replaced on 15 August 2019  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
pay Mr P £150.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1498989