K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  about the advice they received from Gregory Pennington  Limited  
(GPL) in relation to their debt management  plan.
background
Mr and Mrs K say they had a debt management  plan (DMP)  with GPL between  2004 and 
2012. They  say they asked about an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA)  as an 
alternative means of paying their debts and were told they didnt have enough disposable 
income. And they say they specifically asked about  the possibility of an IVA only in Mrs Ks 
name, but were told it would have to be in both of their names.
Mr and Mrs K also say they were later advised by a different business that Mrs K could enter 
into an IVA on her own and this took place in 2016.  So, they say they think they were 
wrongly advised about this matter by GPL.
GPL says it would only refer someone for an IVA where its satisfied the proposal  has a real 
prospect of being  accepted by the creditors. It says an IVA was identified as a possible 
alternative to Mr and Mrs Ks DMP on a number  of occasions. But it says this was, however, 
ruled out as they were either unable to afford the minimum payment requirement at the time 
or it wasnt suitable, due to a potential short-term change in their personal  circumstances.
GPL also says the DMP was initially set up solely in Mr Ks name  in October  2004  when he 
had debts estimated  at £39,200. It says Mrs K was added to the DMP in August 2005,  when 
she had debts of over £56,000.  And it says Mr and Mrs K completed a breakdown  of their 
income and expenditure which showed  their disposable  income  at the time was £90 per 
month.
In addition, GPL says the possibility of an IVA was first discussed in 2007.  It says notes from 
a call in August 2007 indicate this wasnt an option because  they couldnt  afford  the IVA 
payments. It says there  was a discussion around re-mortgaging to clear some  debt and then 
going for an IVA with the remainder. It says the following day Mr and Mrs K advised  they 
wished to remain on the DMP. It says an IVA was also discussed with Mr and Mrs K on 
several occasions in 2009. And it says they were advised they would be unable  to make the 
payments required.  
GPL further says the possibility of Mrs K going  on to an IVA on her own was discussed in 
July 2009. It says based on her debt level of around £80,000 the payment needed  wouldve  
been in the region of £530 per month and it would also have been  necessary to take into 
account the impact  the instability of their joint income wouldve had on the IVA.
So, GPL says it doesnt agree it gave  any inaccurate  advice to Mr and Mrs K about this 
matter.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ks complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. 
They said from what they remember from many  conversations  with GPL they were  told if an 
IVA were to be considered, it would require a monthly payment of £200  and that was based 
on a joint IVA for all their debt. They said at no point was there any mention that a higher 
Ref: DRN12542602figure would be required.  They said they werent given a reason why an IVA in Mrs Ks name  
alone wasnt possible. And they said based  on a payment of £200 per month for a joint IVA, 
then this should mean a payment of around  £100  per month for an IVA in Mrs K sole name. 
Mr and Mrs K also said they were given wrong advice by GPL and the main  reason was 
because it was in GPLs interests to continue  receiving commission  from them.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
At Mr and Mrs Ks request Ive checked whether  GPL has any recordings of its phone  calls 
with them.  Its confirmed  that, due to the passage of time,  it doesnt.  
However, from the information  Ive seen, including GPLs system notes, I can see that the 
possibility of an IVA, either in the joint names of Mr and Mrs K or individually,  was 
considered by GPL and discussed  on several occasions during the time they had a DMP 
with it.
Ive reviewed the income and expenditure assessments  that GPL carried  out and Ive 
considered the disposable  income Mr and Mrs K had during the years when it was managing 
their DMP.  And these indicate their joint disposable income was well short of the monthly  
payments that wouldve  been needed for an IVA to be a realistic  possibility,  either jointly or 
individually.
I acknowledge Mrs K was able to enter into an IVA in her sole name  in 2016. But that will 
have been based on Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time. And it doesnt mean this 
wouldve been a viable  option at any point when they had a joint DMP managed by GPL. 
Mr and Mrs K clearly  feel strongly about this matter and Ive sympathy for them. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think GPLs done  anything wrong and this means I cant  fairly 
and reasonably uphold their complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against Gregory Pennington  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254260