K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with a mortgage in 
2004. Two policies  were  taken out, one in the name of Mr A and one in the name of Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A say OneSavings Bank Plc mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, OneSavings Bank  had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs A that they had 
a choice about it. But Mr and Mrs A say they werent told the PPI was optional.
OneSavings Bank has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs As application form for the mortgage. 
PPI is not mentioned on this form and so theres  no suggestion that PPI was required as part 
of the mortgage.
OneSavings Bank has also sent us a copy of a separate  PPI application form that Mrs A has 
signed to apply for the PPI. And its sent us a letter sent to Mr and Mrs A confirming the PPI 
had been set up, that it was free for the first six months and could be cancelled. This all 
suggests that they had a choice about it.
OneSavings Bank hasnt  been able to send us a copy of Mr As application form for the PPI. 
But, as it was taken  out at the same time as Mrs As policy, I think its likely it was applied  for 
in the same way.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that OneSavings Bank  did make it clear to Mr 
and Mrs A that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs A chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt  have to.
Mr and Mrs A have  said that OneSavings Bank recommended the PPI to them,  and theyve 
highlighted several parts of the communication  they were sent about the PPI which  they say 
they considered  to be a recommendation. Theyve  also said they were told by a member of 
staff that the PPI was good as it was free for the first six months.
But I dont think any of the things Mr and Mrs A have highlighted, or any of the other  
documents Ive seen  from the sale, suggest that OneSavings Bank  had assessed their 
circumstances and was giving them a personalised recommendation about the PPI. So I 
dont think OneSavings Bank did recommend  the PPI to them.
This means  OneSavings Bank didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs A. But 
it did have to make sure they got the information they needed  to decide if the PPI was right 
for them.
Ref: DRN11962442Its possible the information OneSavings Bank  gave  Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs As property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection he policy offered appealing.
Mr and Mrs A have  said that they were both entitled  to sick pay from their employers and 
had significant  savings. But the PPI policies couldve paid out for longer  than theyve told us 
they wouldve  been entitled  to full sick pay. And they wouldve meant Mr and Mrs A didnt 
have to rely on their savings to make their mortgage  repayments  if either  or both of them  
wasnt earning.
So I think the PPI would  have been useful for Mr and Mrs A if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs A off taking  it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs A paid on their PPI  and whether 
OneSavings Bank treated  them unfairly.
OneSavings Bank has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs As PPI was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked  at how OneSavings Bank has been  
working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs As 
commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont  think  it needed 
to tell them about the commission  so I dont think OneSavings Bank  treated them unfairly. 
This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs A back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1196244