K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains through her representative Mr G that Saga Investment  Services, as an 
Appointed Representative of Tilney  Investment Management Services  Limited overcharged 
her for the service it provided and wrongly  sold shares in her ISA portfolio to pay for fees 
instead of taking these from dividend income.  She also complains about the overall  service  
she was provided  with.
background
Mrs G transferred her ISA portfolio to Saga in the first part of 2016 at the same time as her 
husband, Mr G. She entered into an agreement for Saga to manage her portfolio under the 
advisory service it provided.
She decided  to transfer out of the Saga ISA portfolio in 2018 and in doing  so two valuations  
were provided for her account,  one being  around  £16,000 higher  than the other. When  Mr G 
queried this it was established that a shareholding that had been sold was still showing 
digitally on her account when it shouldnt have  been.  As the fees she paid were dependent 
on the value of her portfolio this meant she had been overcharged.
Tilney refunded the fees that were overcharged  in the sum of just short of £375  the actual  
amount was lower  but it chose not to take account  of one fee that had actually been 
undercharged. Tilney  also offered £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
and what it called the subsequent service levels. 
There was further  correspondence about Mr Gs unhappiness with Saga  taking  fees by 
cashing in shares  rather than from income  from both his and Mrs Gs portfolio. Tilney  didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong in this respect or that a loss had ben suffered but offered  a 
further £100 for any distress and inconvenience. 
When Mr G referred  both his and Mrs Gs complaint to Tilney it confirmed the overall amount 
of £200 for distress  and inconvenience  should  be split between  the two complaints - so the 
amount it has actually offered for this in respect of Mrs Gs complaint was only £100. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In short 
his opinion was that there  was potentially a loss because  the overcharged fees had been 
paid for by selling  shares which otherwise wouldve stayed  in her account  and thought Tilney 
should calculate any loss that might have been  suffered.
With regard to the further point about fees paid by sale of shares  the investigator said that 
the agreement  with Saga allowed for this. But said there had been a discussion  about paying 
the fees through the income from the portfolio and because of that thought  some  trouble and 
upset had been caused. But he thought the £100 Tilney had already offered was reasonable 
overall.
Tilney accepted that the payment of the overcharged fees from Mrs Gs portfolio wouldve 
involved the sale of shares and may well have negatively impacted her portfolio. It offered a 
further £100 redress to cover  any loss. But due to the uncertainties  over exactly what  impact 
this wouldve  had on her portfolio  the investigator recommended a payment of £200 in 
addition to the £100 already offered by Tilney,  which it accepted.
Ref: DRN12337602Mr G indicated that he accepted the £300 in respect of the issues  that had been raised. But 
he raised a further  issue with regard to the poor overall service provided by Saga after the 
investigator had provided his initial  view.  Tilney agreed this could  be considered within  this 
complaint. But the investigator wasnt persuaded on the evidence  that the service  was such  
that Mrs G was entitled to a refund  of any fees in addition to the amount Tilney  had agreed 
to pay for distress and inconvenience of £300.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  there are three issues that were  raised  by Mr G on behalf of Mrs G. The first is that 
she was overcharged  fees as a result of an overvaluation  of her portfolio resulting from the 
digital record of a shareholding showing on her account when the shareholding no longer 
existed. There is no dispute that Saga got this wrong and Tilney has repaid the fees. And I 
have seen no evidence  that the amount it has repaid  dont reflect  the overcharged fees.
As the fees were in large part paid for by selling shares in the portfolio this meant that Mrs G 
has suffered a potential  loss because some shares that would otherwise have remained in 
the portfolio and possibly achieved gains  although also possibly losses   were  taken out of 
the portfolio. 
The calculation of this would be very complicated  and Tilney  offered £100 for this. But it then 
agreed with the investigator this should be £200. It seems to me this is more  than 
reasonable as it is far more than the gains Mrs G is likely to have  achieved  if the shares  
hadnt been sold.
This leads  me to the second specific issue raised  by Mr G which is about the overall fees 
being paid for by sale of shares.  Mr G has said that what was agreed with Saga is that these 
would be paid by way of income, in effect the dividends on shares, the portfolio received.
The agreement signed by Mrs G stated that to pay the fees Saga would first of all exhaust  
any un-invested cash  in the cash  account  before redeeming units from the biggest  holding. 
So it was only necessary to sell shares  when there  wasnt enough cash  in the cash account.
The ISA transfer  form Mrs G signed  when transferring  to Saga indicated she wanted the 
income from her investments to be reinvested. So on that basis the income wouldnt be used 
to pay the fees as this would never be paid into the cash account but instead be reinvested.
But Mr G has referred to the Investment Proposal Review (the review) dated May 2016.  
Within this there is reference  to questions that were answered in relation to risk which stated 
as follows:
In Question 7) you stated that you had an equal objective of income  and growth. After 
discussing this further you confirmed there  is no specific  need  for an income as your current  
lifestyle is self-sufficient. However  you confirmed  that you would like any income  that is 
produced by the portfolio  to be paid out so it can be used  to cover the fees.
So it appears that there was some discussion about using the income to pay the fees rather  
than be reinvested as the transfer form indicated Mrs G wanted.  From the statements I have 
Ref: DRN12337603seen it appears that dividend  payments received in the portfolio were then periodically paid 
out by way of BACS  transfer into Mrs Gs joint bank  account with Mr G.
Arguably paying out the income  to Mrs G was in line with what the review recorded. It gave 
her the benefit  of the income and the ability to decide what amount  to then pay into the cash 
account to cover fees. I accept that may not have been what Mrs G thought was going  to 
happen and she may have  thought that the money paid into her bank account was what was 
left after Sagas fees had been deducted.  But Im not persuaded on the evidence that Saga 
didnt do what was agreed.
The third issue raised  by Mr G is about  the overall service provided by Saga. He feels that 
Mrs G has paid for a service that has not been provided. He has referred to the fact that 
Saga didnt send  six monthly statements as one example. 
I note that the investment proposal  review makes two references to the six monthly 
statements. The first lists the key aspects of the service and includes:
Six monthly statements  that provide you with a detailed performance analysis. Online 
reporting is available 24 hours a day.
The second  under the heading Communication states:
Six-monthly valuations and online access to portfolio valuations.
Tilney has said that the six monthly  statements were only available online not by post but 
given the wording it isnt surprising  Mr G thought they were to be provided by post.  But if Mrs 
G thought she was going to receive six monthly  statements I wouldve expected  her to have 
asked Saga to provide these, and I have seen no evidence she (or Mr G) did raise  any issue  
about not having received  statements before the current  complaint they did. So Im not 
persuaded that any distress or inconvenience has been caused because  of the impression 
that statements  would be sent by post.
 
Mr G has pointed to other  issues which he says shows Saga didnt provide the service 
promised. Having considered the evidence I think the service couldve been better. But Im 
not persuaded that it was such  that Saga isnt entitled to the fees that were  charged. And I 
think the amount  Tilney  has agreed  to pay for distress and inconvenience is reasonable 
overall for what it got wrong.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Tilney Investment Management 
Services Limited has to pay Mrs G a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
if this hasnt been paid already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1233760