K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a car he is financing  through an agreement with Billing Finance Ltd 
(Billing Finance) was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to him.
background
Mr R took receipt of a used car in November 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Billing  Finance.  At the start of the agreement the car had 
completed nearly 67,000 miles and was nearly  11 years old.
Mr R says that one of the main reasons he chose the car was to tow his caravan. But he 
didnt do that until April 2018. He explained that he then immediately had problems with the 
car. It went in to limp mode and the Engine Management Light (EML) and Hill Decent 
Control (HDC)  warnings  illuminated. A diagnostic Mr R arranged suggested the problem was 
with the turbo. 
Billing Finance  arranged  an independent  inspection in June 2018. At the time of the 
inspection the car had covered about  2,500 miles in Mr Rs care.  The engineer noted that 
the HDC and EML lights illuminated and the car entered limp mode after a short  drive.  He 
suggested there was very low boost pressure and this was probably due to a blocked  Diesel  
Particulate Filter (DPF). He also noted that the viscous fan clutch was creating excessive 
resistance and making the cooling fan excessively noisy.  His report said that there was also 
abnormal movement in the turbocharger support bearings.
Billing Finance  considered the report but didnt think it was likely the faults Mr R complained 
of were present  when  the car was supplied to him. So they wouldnt support Mr Rs 
complaint.
He therefore referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion.  
He noted that the fault first surfaced about five months after Mr R had taken receipt of the 
car and that Mr R thought it was turbo related and not, as the expert had said, related to the 
DPF. He favoured  Mr Rs explanation because it seemed that Mr Rs car didnt have  a DPF. 
He understood  that Mr R had now had the turbo,  fan and drive belt on the car replaced,  at 
his own cost, and that these  repairs  appeared to have  fixed the problem. So he was 
persuaded that the faults Mr R had experienced were most likely to have been present at the 
point of supply  and were therefore Billing  Finances responsibility. He suggested they should 
reimburse £2,515  for the repairs Mr R had to carry out and also refund the £40 diagnostic 
fee hed paid, unless theyd already done  so.
But Billing Finance  didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. They couldnt see evidence 
that the turbo was faulty in either  the diagnostic report or in the final invoice for the work 
Mr R had completed. They said that the independent engineer had explained  that there 
would have been blue or white  smoke from the exhaust if the turbo  was faulty and that none 
had been noted and they said there  appeared to have been  problems with the oil when the 
car was independently inspected and Mr R had been wrong to subsequently  drive it. So they 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN10823322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. In particular Id like to assure Billing Finance and Mr R that 
Ive read and considered all of their detailed arguments that they raised  with the adjudicator 
after he issued his view on this matter.  
Mr R acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Billing Finance are 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Billing Finance  to put this right. 
When we consider whether a car is of satisfactory  quality  we also need  to consider the age 
and mileage of the car. It wouldnt be fair to suggest  an 11 year old car with 67,000  miles on 
the clock should be fault free but I think a reasonable person would expect a car of this 
specification to be able to tow a caravan without going  in to idle mode  or displaying warning 
lights that Im told suggest overheating.
Im persuaded that this issue first came to light in April 2018 when Mr R first towed  his 
caravan. As thats within the first six months the relevant legislation suggests that wed 
usually assume any faults were  there  from the point of sale. So I think its for Billing  Finance 
to show that they werent present and Im not persuaded  that was the case.
The independent engineer noted the same  fault as Mr R had identified. He confirmed  the 
warning lights were  on and the car was dropping in to limp mode.
So I think at that point it wouldve been  fair for Billing  Finance  to take some action. And as 
this was the first fault that had occurred the relevant legislation would allow  them one chance 
to repair  the car. But they didnt repair the car because their final response letter  said the 
independent inspection had confirmed the DPF filter was partially blocked and this was due 
to driver error. 
It now appears to be the consensus that there is no DPF filter on this car. The independent 
engineer has suggested  it is therefore most  likely that there was an exhaust blockage but Im 
not persuaded by this argument  because Mr R has explained the repairs  hes had done have 
fixed the problem   and they didnt include any work  to the exhaust.
It seems  most likely to me that the fault was turbo related and the overheating may have 
been related to the faulty fan. But irrespective of the actual root cause its clear there was a 
fault with the car that was, due to its early  presentation  and the relatively low mileage the 
vehicle had completed when the fault was identified,  most likely  to have been present at the 
Ref: DRN10823323point of supply.  So I think, in those  circumstances, Billing Finance should  have arranged to 
have the car repaired for Mr R.
Mr R asked Billing Finance to take action in June and as they refused he had to take advice 
and get the problem fixed elsewhere. I dont think that was unreasonable. Hed already 
waited for half a year.
Its true that, as there were several  aspects to the repair that was completed, we do not 
know which repair, or combination of repairs, resolved the issue. But thats not Mr Rs fault. 
and I dont think its unreasonable to ask Billing Finance to pay the whole bill. Its now difficult 
to distinguish the root cause but its clear the problem has been resolved  by the repair  thats 
taken place and it would  be fair for Billing Finance to refund the cost of that repair  in full.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Billing Finance Ltd to:
reimburse the repair  cost of £2,515 to Mr R and add 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
refund £40 for the diagnostics Mr R commissioned  if they havent already done  so
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1082332