K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV=) has settled an 
insurance claim made by a third party.
background
Mr R left his car at an airport car park between 7 and 14 February  2018.  After his return, he 
was notified by LV= that a third party had made  a claim  for damage whilst the car was 
parked.
The third party had alleged  that whilst Mr Rs car was parked, his rear passengers  door had 
come into contact with their car. They had taken photographs which showed Mr Rs car with 
its rear door open  and in contact with theirs.
LV= looked into matters  and agreed to settle the claim on the basis of these photographs.
Mr R disputes the claim. In particular he says the third party alleged the incident took place 
on 15 February 2018  which was after he had left the car park. Mr R also alleges the photos 
arent genuine.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold the complaint.  He explained that LV= 
had the right to take over and defend any claim which it received. He explained that LV= had 
settled on the basis of the photographs (which he had also reviewed), and that this was a 
reasonable action for it to take. Our investigator  felt the dates which  had been supplied  by 
the third party  were likely  an oversight on their part. Mr R disagreed  with this view and 
reiterated that his car had left the car park the day before  alleged  incident. Mr R argues LV= 
hadnt sufficiently  investigated the claim.   As no outcome could be agreed, the matter  has 
been passed to me to issue a final decision on. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
We dont decide  who is at fault for an accident,  as this is the role of the courts.  Instead we 
look at whether the insurer acted fairly  and reasonably in making its decision. 
Under Mr Rs policy, LV= has the right to take over the defence or settlement of any claim. 
This gives it the opportunity to decide  if its reasonable  to contest a claim against a potential 
third party. This might  mean LV= makes  a decision that Mr R doesnt agree with, but the 
policy does allow it to do this. This is a common  term in motor insurance policies, and I dont 
think its unusual for it to be relied  on by LV=. 
I understand that Mr R doesnt believe LV= has investigated the claim properly, and he 
disagrees with the decision  it reached. So Ive considered  LV=s investigation. 
Ref: DRN15939112LV= has decided the claim  on the basis of the information it had been  given by all parties. It 
has relied on photographs which appear to show Mr Rs cars  rear door open and in contact 
with the third partys  car. LV= has explained the damage which  has been claimed for 
appears consistent with the photographs which it has seen. It has asked Mr R for his 
versions of events (including the discrepancies over the dates),  and has considered  these. 
LV= has also explained that given the photographs  provided that it is unlikely it would be 
able to contest  the claim further, and that it could incur more  costs if it were to do so. 
So taking all of this into consideration LV= has decided to settle the claim.  
And having considered this information myself,  Im satisfied LV= has acted in line with Mr 
Rs policys terms and conditions when  making  its decision. It therefore follows that Im 
satisfied LV= has acted reasonably when deciding to settle the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1593911