K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  about the quality  of a car supplied to her by Oodle Financial Services  
Limited.
Ms Ks son represents her in her complaint. However, for simplicity I have referred  to all 
submissions from Ms Ks representative as being  made by Ms K.
background
In March 2018 Ms K entered into a hire purchase agreement with OFS for a used car. She 
told us on the way home from the car dealership the oil light suddenly  came on. She said 
she got in touch with the dealership straightaway  to complain. But, according  to Ms K, it told 
her the car merely needed a service and it wouldnt help her.
Ms K said she got a report done on the car, at her own expense.  At the same time,  she had 
the car serviced.  An expert who I will call L did both the report  and the servicing.  She 
contacted OFS and sent it the report.  In the meantime, she needed to keep on using the car 
for work, so she kept on topping up the oil as and when needed. Despite this, the cars 
engine seized up. Ms K had to get roadside  assistance  from a company I will call A. 
Ms K told OFS about the engine seizing up. She sent it As report. After this, she told us, 
OFS asked her to take her car to another expert  who I will call J. J was asked to provide an 
estimate of the cost for repairing the car. Which  it did. 
In the interim Ms K had been  in touch  with the cars manufacturer.  It appears  that the car 
was just outside of its warranty period. The manufacturer was prepared  to pay for a new 
engine. However,  it didnt agree to meet the labour  charges too. These  costs  ran into 
thousands of pounds.  Ms K asked  OFS to pay these but it refused. Ms K thought the 
problem was perhaps due to an oil leak.
After some further to and fro OFS agreed to appoint its own expert who I will call C. C 
concluded that the problem stemmed from oil depletion. It suggested  that the oil had not 
been topped up as it should have been. It didnt agree that there was any oil leak,  In the 
circumstances, it said OFS wasnt responsible for the state of the car. It pointed  out that Ms 
K had driven the car around 4,000 miles before it seized up. 
To settle  the complaint Ms K wants to reject the car. She wants all the repayments she has 
made to OFS refunded.  She also wants any negative information  that it may have asked to 
be registered on her credit file in relation  to the agreement to be removed.
OFS said it sympathised with Ms Ks position.  However, it didnt agree that it was 
responsible for the situation she found  herself  in. It relied exclusively on Cs report. It 
concluded that whatever was wrong  with the car wasnt  there  when it supplied  the car to her. 
It suggested she would not have been able to drive  for thousands of miles if the car had an 
oil leak or any other oil related problems  from the beginning of the contract.
That said,  OFS was prepared to look at the matter  again should  Ms K want to send  it further 
expert evidence. It also said that as a goodwill gesture should she decide to get a further 
experts report done itd pay for half of it.
Dissatisfied with OFSs response Ms K came to our service.
Ref: DRN18270012Our investigator looked into Ms Ks complaint.  Our investigator concluded,  that on balance 
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  On this basis  he was satisfied 
that Ms K ought to be allowed to reject  the car. 
Further, our investigator noted  that Ms K had part exchanged her previous car when she 
entered into this current agreement. That original car had also been  subject to a finance  
agreement. Ms K had negative equity in relation  to this first finance agreement. This meant 
that the first car was worth less than the money she owed on it. The negative  equity was 
£1,114.74. 
The negative equity  was added to the amount  that Ms K borrowed for her present car. Our 
investigator thought  it was fair and reasonable that the current hire purchase agreement 
should be ended. He also thought she should  owe nothing  further  in relation to her present 
car. But he didnt  agree that the negative equity should also be written  off. He said this 
because Ms K would  have owed that amount regardless of whether she had entered into the 
hire purchase agreement with OFS or not. So, he thought it was fair and reasonable that Ms 
K had to pay back this money to OFS.
In addition, our investigator  said once  the £1,114.74 had been  paid back then OFS needed 
to remove any negative  information it had registered in relation to the agreement on Ms Ks 
credit file. He also said it ought  to take back the car and pay Ms K £200  for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ms K did not tell us whether she accepted our investigators recommendation or not. 
However, OFS rejected  it outright. In summary,  it repeated its earlier  stance and it asked that 
an ombudsman review  Ms Ks complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The agreement in this case is a hire purchase agreement, it is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement  so we can consider a complaint relating to it. OFS is also the supplier of the 
goods (i.e. the car) under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a complaint about  their 
quality. 
In particular, the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  and the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 are relevant  
to this complaint.  The CRA 2015 says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an 
implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the 
Ref: DRN18270013goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So, it seems  likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age, and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
OFS supplied Ms K with a used car that had a cash price of £31,950. The car was around  
four years old and had travelled approximately  50,000 miles when it was supplied. And it 
appears that the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had been supplied  
new. 
So, I think its fair to say that in these circumstances, a reasonable person would expect that 
parts of the car might  have already suffered a degree of wear and tear. And theres  a greater 
risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt  as road-
worn when it was supplied.
That said,  the car was relatively young,  it had a relatively high cash price which reflected its 
age and mileage  plus the car ought  to have been roadworthy even if there was some wear  
and tear.
I note that the engine  had oil problems  from day one. Indeed, as Ms K was driving the car 
home from the dealership the oil light came on. The report  from L done shortly  after the car 
was supplied (in April 2018),  also mentions  the oil light being  on. L suggests that further  
investigation is needed because it cannot conclusively identify the nature of the problem.  
Although it is clear that the problem is impacting on the normal running of the car. 
The report  from A notes that there are many  errors  messages  including oil level out of 
range. It also notes  Ms K tells it she has been topping up the oil. And Cs report also talks 
about oil related issues, specifically it mentions oil depletion. Im satisfied that although it is 
not clear what has caused the problem, the cars  engine had oil related issues at the time of 
supply. 
Im also satisfied these were not mere were and tear issues  related to lack of maintenance. 
Cs report suggests that as part of the normal servicing the cars oil levels  ought  to have 
been topped up. The information I have seen  from L, which  neither party appears to dispute  
says, L serviced the car shortly after it was supplied, in April 2018, as I have already 
mentioned. I have no reason to doubt  that it did top up the cars oil level in line with the 
servicing requirements. Ms K tells us she was topping up the oil even after this service.  Ms K 
has been consistent about  this point, and I am persuaded  that she did this. But by the time 
Cs report was done in October 2018,  no oil was registering  on the dipstick. All of this 
suggests that there was an abnormal level of oil use.
Further, it seems  C didnt  know  about  the servicing in April 2018 as it said:
In our opinion we can further confirm that the vehicle appears  to have been operated with
depleted oil, causing the engine seizure.  The last service  was approximately sixteen
months ago [February  2017]. Unless the vehicle  has been serviced post this then the issue 
would appear  to be the responsibility of the hirer.
It is implicit in what C says that if the car had been serviced after February 2017, then the 
issue was not the responsibility of the hirer that is Ms K.
For all of these reasons I am satisfied the car had an oil related fault at the time it was 
supplied.
Ref: DRN18270014Ive just said why I think  there is a fault with the car. So, Ive gone on to consider whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  Ive done this because  the mere  
presence of a fault in a used car does not necessarily mean the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. Ive already  set out the sort of expectations  a reasonable person would have when 
purchasing a car in these circumstances. 
Im not persuaded by OFSs stance that if the problem had been there from the point of 
supply Ms K wouldnt have been able to cover  thousands of miles in the car. I dont think its 
analysis is an accurate depiction of the facts. Ms K has demonstrated that she had not even 
driven home  from the dealership before she reported the problem. It is not as if she had 
4,000 miles of issue free driving before the fault presented. Rather,  the problem came up 
straightaway. It didnt  prevent her from driving  the car thats correct, but the problem was 
there.
This was a used car, but it ought to have  been  roadworthy when supplied. However, I am 
persuaded it wasnt. The fault prevented the car from running  normally and I think most  likely 
ultimately led to the seizure of the engine. Ive already said I don think the fault was just 
normal wear and tear as might be expected with a car of this age, price and mileage. Having 
carefully considered  all of the relevant circumstances,  including  the price, age and mileage 
of the car when  supplied  and when the fault first happened  I dont think  the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
OFS has suggested that Ms K needs to provide more evidence to prove the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ive carefully considered what  it has said,  but I 
dont think its fair to ask Ms K to provide  more evidence   such  as a further independent 
expert report. I already have three separate reports that all suggest the cars engine  had 
problems relating to its oil supply. I also have information that shows on balance, that the 
problem was there from the point of supply. On that basis, I have enough information to 
persuade me that the car was likely not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
It seems  that the car is no longer working  and will need significant repairs. Ms K tells us she 
needs a car for work and has been without  the use of this car for a considerable period  of 
time. Further, Ms K does not want to accept repair of the car. She was told originally the car 
merely needed a service,  only to find this was incorrect. I can see why this would undermine 
her confidence about  what repairs may be required now.  Bearing all this in mind I can see 
why she wants to reject the car rather than accept a repair. Ms K wants  to reject the car and 
in all the circumstances I am satisfied  that it is fair and reasonable that she should  be 
allowed to do this.
I also think OFS caused Ms K a degree of unnecessary distress and inconvenience with all 
the back and forth. I think £200 is a fair award  for this.
The information I have  seen indicates that when Ms K took out this hire purchase 
agreement, she still owed money under her prior finance agreement.  From what I have  seen 
this sum was £1,114.74.  Instead  of paying off this deficit Ms K added  this to the money she 
borrowed to finance  this current hire purchase agreement. Ms K does not owe this money as 
a result of OFS supplying her with a car that was not of satisfactory quality.  It would 
therefore not be fair and reasonable to ask OFS to bear this loss by waiving the debt. That 
being so, I think  Ms K will need to pay this money to OFS. Once she has done this then OFS 
should remove all information it has registered on her credit file about the hire purchase 
agreement.
Ref: DRN18270015Ms K asked that OFS return all the repayments she made  under  the agreement. However, it 
seems Ms K stopped making  repayments the month  after the car stopped  working. The car 
broke down  on 22 August  2018. OFS says Ms K only made 4 repayments since  May 
2018.Which suggests  she did make a payment for the whole of August even though  the 
cars engine  seized up, as I said on 22 August 2018.I am satisfied that OFS must refund Ms 
K for any payments that she made  that relate  to the period after 22 August 2018.
I also accept that Ms K was having to top up the oil on a regular basis.  I think  this would 
have impaired her use of the car. It would not be fair and reasonable to say Ms K does not 
have to pay for the use of the car at all. Nowhere in her agreement with OFS did either party  
ever suggest  that Ms K should get the use of a car for free. Rather they agreed shed pay for 
her use. But, as Ive already said, I do see that her use of the car was impaired. On that 
basis I think she should be refunded 5% of all the repayments she made towards the car 
from the beginning of the agreement until 22 August  2108.
my final decision
My final decision is that Oodle Financial Services Limited must.
Collect the car at no cost to Ms K. This must  be done at a time that is mutually 
convenient for both parties.
Refund any repayments Ms K made that relate to the period after 22 August 2018.  
OFS must  also pay Ms K interest on that refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. 
The interest to run from the date of payment of the repayments to the date of 
settlement. If Ms K wants OFS to put the refund towards the £1,114,74 she owes it 
she needs to tell it this.
Refund 5% of all the repayments Ms K made  from the beginning  of the contract  up to 
and including  22 August 2018 to reflect her impaired usage  of the car during this 
period. OFS must also pay Ms K interest at the rate of 8% simple  per year on this 
refund. The interest to run from the date of payment of the repayments to the date of 
settlement. If Ms K wants OFS to put the refund towards the £1,114,74 she owes it 
she needs to tell it this.
Once Ms K has paid OFS the £1,114.74 she owes it, OFS must end the hire 
purchase agreement  with nothing further owing by her.
Once Ms K has paid the £1,114.74 OFS must remove  all the information it has 
caused to be registered on her credit file about the hire purchase  agreement.
Pay Ms K £200 for distress and inconvenience.  If Ms K wants OFS to take this £200  
off the £1,114.74 she owes  it then she needs to tell it this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18270016
Ref: DRN1827001