K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc mis-sold him accident, sickness and 
unemployment insurance - a type of payment protection insurance, (PPI) - in connection with 
a OneBill account.  
background
It is unclear exactly when the PPI was sold to Mr F. Mr F held a OneBill account with Secure 
Trust in 1983. This type of account was a way of managing household bills. Mr F has told us 
the PPI was sold to him in 1983 around  the time he took out a mortgage. Secure Trust has 
told us the PPI was added to the on or before November  1983. So in this decision I have 
assumed the sale took place in November 1983.  
My understanding is that the PPI initially covered  Mr F against not being able to work due to 
an accident or sickness only. Following a successful claim the policy  could have paid Mr Fs 
agreed monthly payment into his OneBill  account for up to 26 weeks.
In 1995 unemployment cover was added.  If Mr F had made a successful claim for 
unemployment the policy could have paid the monthly benefit for up to 52 weeks.
The cost of the policy initially was 4p for every £1 of monthly benefit required.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.  Secure Trust did not 
respond to the adjudicators findings so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint. This is because Secure Trust needed  to give him 
clear, fair and not-misleading information  about  the cost of the policy  so that he could make 
an informed decision whether to buy it or not. I dont  think  that Secure Trust did this. 
Ive not seen a copy  of the application form for the PPI which isnt surprising bearing in mind  
the length of time that has elapsed.  
I have seen a copy of a letter headed  evidence of cover, which  Secure Trust says Mr F 
would have received. Within  it I cant see any mention or explanation of the cost of the 
policy.
Secure Trust has also sent us copies of policy documents. Some  of these date from a long 
time after the policy was initially sold to Mr F. However having looked through  the documents 
I cant see they gave  any explanation of the cost of the policy.
Overall I havent seen any evidence that Secure Trust told Mr F clearly enough how much 
the policy would cost before it sold it to him. Its possible  that Secure Trusts advertising  
leaflets for the PPI contained some information  about the premiums. Its also possible that 
Ref: DRN12044312Secure Trust gave  Mr F cost information some  other  way. But, from what we know  about the 
way Secure Trust usually  sold this insurance,  I think  that this would have only been along  
the lines that the policy cost 4 pence  for every one pound unit of cover.  
Im not satisfied that this would have been  good enough for Mr F to understand how much 
he would  have to pay for the insurance  at the start of the policy. Also, without further  
explanation, I dont this would have  made  it clear  that the cost would increase if and when 
the monthly amounts Mr F paid into his OneBill  account went up to allow for the higher cost 
of his household bills. 
I think that this information would have  mattered to Mr F, as his decision to use a OneBill 
account makes me think that he had a need to keep a close  eye on his household 
expenditure. So its likely that fully understanding the cost of the cover  would have been very 
important for him. And I think Mr F would only have  taken the insurance if he had felt that it 
was good value in his circumstances.
Mr F has told us he would have received a good level of sick pay from his employer at the 
time. Taking  into account his circumstances I dont think  that Mr F would have felt that the 
policy was good  value to him had he known from the outset how much he was going  to have 
to pay. 
This means  that I dont think that Mr F would have taken out the policy if hed received clear 
information about its cost. So I think that Mr F has lost out because of Secure Trusts failure 
to clearly explain the policys cost.
Secure Trust has told us Mr F would have been sent letters and other policy  information over 
the years, when  the terms or cost of the policy changed. But I dont think Secure Trust can 
fairly rely on letters it may have sent after itd sold the policy to put right any failings at the 
time of the sale
fair compensation
Secure Trust should  put Mr F into the position hed be in now if he had never  taken out the 
policy. I understand that it has already  been cancelled. So Secure Trust should:
A.Pay Mr F the amount  he paid each month  for the policy.  Secure Trust should assume    
Mr F paid the first premium in November 1983.  It is possible that Secure Trust doesnt  
hold records of Mr Fs premiums all the way back to 1983.  If that is the case it should 
make reasonable assumptions about the premiums he paid based  on the records it does 
hold.
B.Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr F paid it until he gets it back.         
The rate of interest is 15% until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
C.Secure Trust has told us Mr F made  two successful claims on the policy.  Secure Trust 
can take off the amount Mr F got for any successful claims from the amount it owes him.
D.Secure Trust should  tell Mr F what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. Secure 
Trust must  give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN12044313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I direct  Secure Trust 
Bank Plc to pay Mr F compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1204431