K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way esure Insurance Limited handled his insurance claim after his 
home was damaged following  an escape  of water.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to esure  when  talking about their agents or
representatives.
In mid-July 2018 a pipe burst in Mr Bs upstairs  bathroom and the escape  of water flooded
many rooms, causing extensive damage  to the electrics, kitchen and lounge. His property
became uninhabitable.
Mr B claimed on his home  insurance  with esure.  esure appointed loss adjustors and
contractors to assess and repair the damage. Over the next five months, esure carried  out
works on the property.  After this, Mr B agreed a cash settlement with esure so he could
arrange the remainder of his works  using  his own contractors.
Mr B said he did this because he was very unhappy with the way esure had handled his
claim. He complained to esure  about  a number of issues, including:
The usefulness of their emergency helpline.
The time taken to identify the presence of asbestos in the kitchen  ceiling.
Delays in handling his claim
esure's refusal to provide additional alternative accommodation allowance  after the
cash settlement.
Poor service  and communication.
esure partially upheld  his complaint. They agreed there were some areas where there had
been poor service  and communication  and offered £250 compensation. But they didnt
uphold the rest of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy  and so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator felt
esures resolution was reasonable  and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B didnt agree, so the
matters been  passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional decision with esure  and Mr B so they had the 
opportunity to make any comments  or provide further evidence.  My provisional findings
were:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties that Mr B experienced  following the escape of water at
his home  address. And I can understand how Mr B feels that the way esure have handled
his claim have added to his worries.
Mr B clearly  feels  very strongly about whats happened. Hes sent in a lot of information
about his complaint and the experience he had throughout his claim. I want to assure  him
Ref: DRN18297182Ive taken into account everything hes told us. But in this decision, I wont  be addressing
every point raised. Instead, Ill focus on the issues I think are key to his complaint.
the emergency helpline
Mr B told us he rang esures  24-hour helpline the day of the incident, but the call handler
couldnt set up his claim, confirm if his insurance  covered the incident or advise specifically
how much  he could  spend on a hotel for the evening,  stating  only that the cost should be
reasonable. esure told us the helpline  is to log emergencies only and they wouldnt expect a
call handler to set up or advise on the claim.
Whilst I can understand why Mr B wanted to confirm  he was covered and progress his claim,
esure have  said they wouldnt make  this assessment on the emergency line. And esure are
allowed to make a business  decision over the purpose and scope of their emergency line.
Having reviewed the policy material, Im satisfied they havent advertised that it would do
these things.
But I would expect esures emergency  line to advise Mr B on the kinds  of emergency
expenses that would  be covered if his claim was approved. Particularly given customers  who
have left their home urgently may not have  policy documents with them.  Its clear that the
call handler discussed  the option  of alternative accommodation and that the policy said costs
should be reasonable, so I do think this was partially  done. But Mr B has also said he wasnt
told about any allowance for his food costs until several days later. esure have  said its not
for them to direct a consumer on every aspect they can claim for. But I do think  he shouldve
been made aware of this option  when he first called, given he clearly  had no access to his
food or kitchen. So, I think esures  service in relation to this could have been better.
Mr B also felt esure should  have been more  specific about what they meant by reasonable
accommodations costs,  perhaps providing  a regional budget. As I explained above, its not
my role to regulate esures business  practices  but to decide whether they acted  fairly  in
Mr Bs case. And the call handler clearly  advised Mr B what  his policy  allowed for. esure also
havent suggested the costs Mr B incurred were  unreasonable. So, I think  they acted fairly
here.
ceiling asbestos
Whilst esure attended the property a few days after the incident, the possible presence of
asbestos in the collapsed  kitchen ceiling wasnt identified  until a visit two weeks  later.
And during this time Mr B said he and his family visited their home on multiple  occasions  and
moved potentially  contaminated items  around  the house. Mr B didnt understand why this
wasnt identified earlier and was, understandably, deeply concerned about the potential
impact on his familys health.
esure told us they wouldnt  necessarily  expect the ceiling asbestos to have been  identified if
it wasnt evident at the time of initial inspection. They said this didnt present any risk to Mr B
and his family because  they werent  living at the property. esure also said there  was no
evidence of asbestos risk to their possessions.
I agree  that because  Mr B and his family werent living at the property, their level of exposure
to asbestos was less than it could have been.  But I dont think  that this means there was no
risk here. Mr B has told us his family  continued to access the kitchen and removed items
which were potentially contaminated. Ive considered esures comment that theres no
Ref: DRN18297183evidence Mr Bs possessions were contaminated. But theres also no evidence  they werent.
Given the health risk asbestos presents, I think its reasonable to expect esure to have taken
preventative steps  regardless. Which Ive noted  they later did.
I appreciate that esure acted when they were aware  of the asbestos. But I think the initial
inspection of the property should  have identified this health  and safety risk. The ceiling was
collapsed and so was available for inspection within the kitchen. And possible asbestos was
identified elsewhere  in Mr Bs property  (in an undisturbed state) at this time. esure havent
provided me with a good explanation as to why this wasnt  identified sooner. And Ive no
evidence the presentation of the kitchen ceiling differed between  the initial inspection and
the one two weeks later. So, I dont think esure acted  reasonably  here.
Mr B and his wife have  had to register potential asbestos exposure with their GP.
Their exposure wasnt  prolonged as they werent living  in the property  and the risk was
identified two weeks later. But this has clearly  caused Mr B significant upset and worry.
Its also caused some inconvenience  as items that were potentially cross  contaminated
when Mr B was unaware of the risk, have also been replaced.
delays and alternative accommodation
Mr B felt there were  a number of delays  to his claim. esure  said the overall  timescales were
in line with what they expected given the size and type of claim.
I agree  with esure that the overall  timescales dont appear to be particularly lengthy given
the extent of the damage. But that doesnt  mean  there werent avoidable delays,  so Ive
looked at the progression  of the claim, and at areas where Mr B raised  particular concerns.
As part of Mr Bs complaint about the delays, I can see he has concerns over whether the
works carried out by esure were always necessary. However, esures relevant qualified
professionals determined they were.  And Mr B has provided me with no evidence  to suggest
otherwise. Given this, I dont think esure have acted unreasonably in undertaking this work.
Mr B was unhappy with the time taken  to contact him after he registered the claim using  the
emergency helpline.  And I fully appreciate that any delay would have felt like a very long
time given  the uncertainty regarding  his cover and the immediacy  of his predicament.  But I
can see Mr B was called  back by esures  claims department the next afternoon  and told the
claim was accepted. esure also appointed  a loss adjustor who also called the same day to
arrange an assessment  of the damage. Whilst Mr B didnt speak with the loss adjustor  until
the day after, this was because both Mr B and the esure representative missed one
anothers calls. Overall, I dont think this was an unreasonable response time in the
circumstances and I think esure acted reasonably here.
I can see the property  was declared dry in mid-August, around a month after the accident.
Within two weeks a video call took place, a schedule of outstanding  works was completed
and the details of this and the cash settlement figure were emailed to Mr B. I think  this is a
reasonable time frame.
Mr B thought  it took too long to arrange  the cash settlement once the property had been
declared dry. The emails  esure have shown me indicate that over the next month  they
discussed schedules  and figures  with Mr E and a revised cash  settlement was agreed  at the
end of September. Whilst I appreciate  this took some time, I dont think this was
unreasonable given the complexity of the settlement negotiations which had to consider
Ref: DRN18297184parts, labour, storage  and alternative accommodation. And this time also included  periods
where Mr B was reviewing and considering  the schedule and obtaining quotes.
But I think the crux of Mr Bs point is that whilst  these discussions were ongoing, esure
agreed with their contractor what works they would complete. It then took over two months
for these  to finish.
On the face of it, two months does seem like a quite a long time for only a few days  work.
But it takes time for a contractor to quote  for work,  get approval from an insurer  and then
schedule to carry out the work. The claim notes also indicate  that some  of the outstanding
work was unexpected. For example,  stripping revealed wet breeze  blocks which created
unavoidable delays. Similarly, on any works  of this scale, I would expect  a degree of
snagging where additional tasks  are identified or tidying up required. All of this took time and
I dont think it was unreasonable.
But there were times where esures contractor missed emails  instructing additional works or
identifying omissions.  And I do think this created  some avoidable  delay to the electrical
works. esure  agreed  at the beginning of September that their contractor would complete
these and I think its unfair this wasnt sorted until the beginning of November.
So, Ive thought about the consequences of the electrics delay for Mr B. Mr B told us his
contractors couldnt  start work until the electrics  were done  by esure. He said the electrician
required kitchen ceiling  access, which meant  he couldnt have  the kitchen walls plastered or
kitchen units fitted by his contractors  when  hed planned to. Mr B said best practice  is to
install the ceiling first before plastering  the walls. He said this set back  his overall  timescales
for his contractors works to the end of January 2019.
Part of the agreed cash settlement between  Mr B and esure was for an alternative
accommodation allowance and food costs until the expected date of completion  of Mr Bs
contractors works  which was the beginning of December 2018.  So, Mr B felt this payment
should be extended by esure.
But esure told us the delay  to the works was Mr Bs responsibility. esure told us Mr B had
unreasonably insisted the works be done  in this very specific  order, which  was not in line
with industry standards. They felt Mr B could have arranged to plaster the walls and install
the kitchen, sorting  the ceiling afterwards. This would have minimised  any delay to his
contractors works. esure also noted  Mr B had delayed  ordering his replacement  kitchen
which wasnt reasonable because it could have  been stored in another  room in the house,
given they were living elsewhere.
Theres clearly  disagreement about industry  standards here. So, I asked both parties for
relevant evidence. esure told us theres no regulatory requirement to complete one before
the other and said this didnt require a professionals opinion. Mr B sent evidence from two
UK drywall manufacturers, including an email from a technical support team and extracts
from a site book on the installation  of plasterboard  ceilings. Both support his suggestion that
best practice would  be to board the ceiling before the walls. And whilst I would expect a
customer to attempt to minimise their losses, I wouldnt expect them to act against  best
practice. Given this, I think its reasonable Mr B delayed his contractors so that the works
could be completed  in the advised order.
So, I dont think esure acted fairly in refusing to cover any of the additional displacement
costs caused  by these delays.  But I dont  think its fair to ask esure  to pay alternative
Ref: DRN18297185accommodation allowance and food costs up until the completion of all of the works by Mr B,
because I think there  may have  been contributing factors to these delays that esure werent
responsible for.
I asked both Mr B and esure about  the original timescales for the work. But I havent  been
told by either  when they expected the electrics to be completed.  I can see esure provided
costs for around 10 weeks and that the electrics werent finished until nearly 8 weeks  in.
In the absence of any evidence to indicate  problems in this area, I think its reasonable to
expect this work would  have been  completed  within  a month.  I say this based on the fact this
was a few days  work  and contractors were already in place  I think four weeks  allows for
inspection, quotation  and the availability of the relevant tradespeople. So, Im minded to
direct esure to pay Mr B a further four weeks alternative accommodation allowance and food
costs at the same rate they provided  for the rest of his cash settlement. And to ask them to
pay simple interest on this amount to account for the loss of use.
In addition to these costs, Ive noted this error clearly caused some Mr B some
inconvenience as it prolonged  the time he had to live away  from his home and meant he had
to reschedule contractors  repeatedly.
Ive noted Mr B has also raised concerns  about  the suitability of his alternative
accommodation. Its clear a hotel was not really appropriate given how long his claim took to
resolve. But the claim notes show efforts were  made  by esure to find Mr B a furnished
apartment, but that this was difficult due to availability. One option was suggested  by esure,
but Mr B felt it was unsuitable because of his childrens school locations. And Ive seen no
evidence that Mr B could  find a suitable alternative either. So, whilst  I appreciate  this would
have been frustrating for Mr B, I cant say esure acted unreasonably  if there  were  no other
options available.
Im also aware that delays  to extending the booking at the hotel meant that on one occasion,
the hotel had no availability. I appreciate the prospect  of having nowhere to stay for a night
must have  been  incredibly  upsetting  for Mr B. But esure werent responsible  for the
availability at the hotel. And I dont think its unreasonable for esure to book the
accommodation in blocks enabling them to reassess at key stages in the claim whether
further accommodation was needed   particularly when they were continually looking for an
alternative. So, whilst I acknowledge this must have been incredibly difficult and upsetting, I
dont think esure did anything wrong here.  But I do agree this could have been
communicated better  and Ive taken  this into consideration below.
service and communication
Mr B has raised numerous  complaints over various  points where he wasnt happy with the
communication and service he received  from esure.
I appreciate Mr Bs assessment of the claim handling is that it was appalling and stressful.
With any home insurance claim of this nature there  is understandably  going  to be a large
amount of inconvenience,  stress  and upset.  And on the evidence available to me, I think  a
lot of this was due to the very difficult circumstances Mr B found himself in, rather  than a
direct consequence  of mistakes or errors on esures part.
Looking at the claims notes and call logs, overall,  I think esure did keep Mr B up to date with
the progress of his claim and responded to his queries and concerns.
Ref: DRN18297186That being  said,  I agree  that there  were  points throughout the claim where  the service
should have been better.  I can see evidence of scheduled calls and cheques being  delayed,
mixed information being  given, and Mr B has told us of inconvenience  caused by missed
appointments or subcontractors not communicating. Given  the complexity of the claim and
the number of contractors involved, I think some communication issues are understandable.
But I think the number  of errors here exceed what I would  reasonably  expect, even with a
claim of this size. And I do think constantly dealing with these issues  throughout the claim
added to the stress and frustration of the situation.
So, whilst I dont agree  with Mr B that the service  he received from esure was appalling, I
dont think esure always  acted reasonably. And I do think this caused Mr B additional upset
and inconvenience.
putting things  right
I can see that esure have  already offered Mr B £250  compensation for the service  and
communication issues. And that they felt this award  accounted for the miscommunication
surrounding the electrical work.
Whilst I think this amount reasonably considers the distress and inconvenience caused by
several of the errors, I think a further  award  of £350 is needed to fully account  for the impact
of the electric delays  and the asbestos issue.
I believe this payment more fairly reflects the difficulties the delays to the electrics caused,
not only from a logistical perspective but taking account of the delay to Mr B being able to
return home. And I think it acknowledges the significant worry and upset caused by the
potential asbestos  exposure.
As outlined  above,  I also think esure should pay Mr B an additional  four weeks  alternative
accommodation allowance and food costs at the same rate paid for the rest of his claim.
And to account for loss of use, I also think esure should pay 8% simple interest on this
amount. I think they should do this from the 1 December 2019,  when Mr Bs works  were due
to finish, until the date they pay Mr B.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr B accepted my provisional findings. He also provided me with some  further detailed 
information about work timescales and delays.
esure said they didnt  think  they should  pay any more alternative accommodation. 
esure provided further information about costs already paid, raising  the following points:
The alternative accommodation rate agreed  in the cash  settlement was based  on 
accommodation with cooking facilities, so no food allowance was included. 
Theyd extended Mr Bs accommodation costs twice already. At the end of 
September 2018, they agreed  14 weeks payment from mid-September until mid-
December to cover the works  and two weeks delay whilst the cash settlement was 
agreed. They then paid for 2 more  weeks to cover the time take for Mr B to cash the 
settlement cheque at the beginning of October.
Alternative accommodations costs were to assist the customers  until the property 
was in a habitable condition  not until the works  were completed.  Mr Bs property 
was in a habitable condition from late November.  
Ref: DRN18297187Mr B had delayed ordering a replacement kitchen despite having the space to store 
this and this had contributed to the overall delays.
The alternative accommodation costs Mr B received was significantly over what  
market average for nearby properties and that if they were  to consider Mr Bs claim 
now, they would have told them the allowance was for over six months 
accommodation and that they had to make  it last. 
esure remained uncertain as to how I reached  the four-week award.
esure also said that they would want invoices for alternative accommodation costs incurred 
from mid-September onwards if they are asked to pay more.  They noted they havent 
received or requested  these  receipts  to date.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B I have carefully reviewed the additional information  he provided when 
reaching my decision. But I wont be commenting on it specifically here as I dont think  his 
points affect the outcome of his complaint. Instead,  Ill be focusing on the concerns esure  
have raised.
One of the points esure have made is that they paid Mr B too much for alternative  
accommodation costs  throughout his claim, so any additional costs  have already been 
covered by the excess payment. 
This seems to me neither  fair nor reasonable. esure  agreed with Mr B a set amount  to be 
paid per week. And Mr B received and spent this on the understanding the amount was to 
cover his accommodation costs for this time. I appreciate the point esure  is making  that the 
amount they paid is way above  market  rate. But this rate was based on rental estimates  
Mr B provided at the time,  so I think thats fair. And even if it was a high rate, I dont think its 
reasonable to retrospectively suggest Mr B should have somehow realised he was getting 
more money than esure would normally pay, and then put some  aside for subsequent delays 
he couldnt anticipate.  
esure have  also said that Mr B should  evidence his costs  if theyre  asked to pay more. But I 
dont think its reasonable of esure  to now ask for receipts for costs when theyd previously 
agreed a weekly  allowance for Mr B. Theres no evidence to suggest  Mr Bs accommodation 
plans changed  for the four additional weeks I think esure should pay for, so I dont think  
theres any evidence  to suggest  esure  should pay a different rate.
Given this, Ive considered esures  point that food allowance wasnt paid for as part of the 
agreed cash settlement  for the rest of Mr Bs claim.  When  I issued my provisional  decision, I 
understood that this was part of the cash settlement. But following the same reasoning as 
above, I dont  think it would be fair to ask esure to pay food allowance for the extra  weeks 
caused by their delays,  when  this wasnt part of the cash settlement agreed for the other 
weeks. For these reasons, I wont be awarding  for food costs in this period.
Ive then moved on to consider the concerns esure  raised over whether  its reasonable to 
award any additional accommodation costs  given they feel the property was habitable. 
But Im not persuaded that it was habitable. I recognise temporary cooking facilities  can be 
arranged, but I dont think this is a reasonable arrangement for several weeks. I say this 
Ref: DRN18297188taking into account  the logistics of preparing,  cooking and washing up after meals for four 
people. In addition,  because the kitchen  hadnt  been  plastered, it was essentially still a 
building site. Mr B had two young children. And I dont think esure have shown this was a 
safe or suitable  place for them to be living. 
esure haves  also raised concerns about delays to Mr B ordering his kitchen units.  But I dont 
think this is a relevant  consideration  here. Im not suggesting esure cover Mr Bs costs  until 
the entire kitchen  was installed. As explained in my provisional decision,  I think its fair they 
cover the delays to the plastering  caused  by their errors. Mr B couldnt  install  the kitchen 
units until the plastering was complete. So, any delay in ordering the kitchen  units would not 
have impacted the plastering timescales.  This would  have happened afterwards and so any 
costs would be for Mr B to cover. 
Finally, esure said they were uncertain as to how I reached the four-week award. 
Theyve also since provided some more  detailed information about  the costs  awarded. I can 
see esure have acted fairly in providing extensions  to Mr Bs costs  twice to accommodate  
delays to arranging  the settlement and to paying his costs. But I dont think this means esure  
shouldnt pay for further delays caused by the electrical works. 
As outlined  in my provisional decision above,  I asked both Mr B and esure  about  the 
timescales for the original works. esure  havent  provided me with any further information 
here. Mr B has explained that no set timescales were agreed  but he didnt anticipate it would 
take anywhere near as long as it did. In the absence of any further representations or 
evidence to indicate problems in this area,  I still think its reasonable to have expected the 
electrical would have been completed within a month after the revised cash  settlement was 
agreed at the end of September. This is for all the reasons  outlined  in my provisional 
decision. And I dont  think the additional payments esure have made  cover  this delay  they 
relate to earlier  delays. Given this, Im not persuaded to change  my findings  here.  So, I still 
think esure should pay Mr B a further four weeks alternative accommodation allowance at 
the same  rate they provided for the rest of his cash settlement. As well as simple interest on 
this amount to account for the loss of use.
I note neither esure or Mr B raised  any issues about  other aspects of my decision.  So, Ive 
not seen any further evidence  that persuades me to change  my findings  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partially  uphold this complaint. I direct esure Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr B the £250 already offered and a further  £350, so £600 in total,  for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Pay Mr B a further four weeks alternative accommodation allowance at the rate paid 
for the rest of the cash settlement and pay 8% simple interest on this
amount from 5 January 2019 until the date they pay Mr B.
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers they should deduct income tax from any 8% interest
element of my award they may do so but should give Mr B the necessary certificate.
Ref: DRN18297189Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1829718