K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Plus500UK Ltd has mis-sold  him a contract for difference  (CFD)  
account.
background
Mr S opened  his account in April 2017. He says he saw an advertisement  for the account  on 
social media, downloaded the application and began trading. But prior to this Mr S says he 
had limited CFD experience. He feels Plus500 encouraged him to open  an account which 
wasnt appropriate for his needs and didnt match his attitude to risk (ATR). He says these 
investments were very high risk and he wasnt advised  of the risk or given  appropriate 
warnings about  trading.  Because  of this Mr S says he has lost £53,000.
A second point  Mr S has made is that he doesnt remember using the account from
27 May 2017. He says trades were  executed  after this point on his account which were not 
authorised by him. He says  he had several chargeback requests upheld because  of this. So 
he believes  he should be refunded £30,200 for the money he lost during this period of time.
He has also raised  the point  that his account was upgraded to a Gold account without his 
permission.
Plus500 has said that as its an execution only broker it didnt provide investment advice.
So no suitability checks were carried out. But it did assess appropriateness in accordance 
with the FCAs rules.  It says when  Mr S applied for the account he was asked a series  of 
questions relating to his trading experience and provided the necessary warnings.
Mr S remained unhappy  so he brought the complaint to our service.  An adjudicator at the 
service looked into the complaint but he didnt recommend that it be upheld.  To summarise 
he said after reviewing Plus500s  account opening  procedures, the due diligence  and 
appropriateness alongside the detailed risk warning, he didnt think it had breached any 
regulations or operated outside  of the terms of the agreement.
Mr S remained unhappy  and because of this asked for the case  to be passed to me to 
consider.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I explained  that I wasnt planning on upholding the complaint.  I 
said the following:
opening of the account
Plus500 is an execution  only broker, so it wasnt required to assess whether CFD trading 
was suitable for Mr S. But under the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook COBS 10,
Plus500 had to establish whether this trading  was appropriate for Mr S. This is a different 
and specific test which meant it needed to decide  whether  Mr S had the necessary 
knowledge and experience to understand the particular risks of CFD trading.
As well as this it needed to explain  how CFDs  work  and the risks involved,  and ensure 
appropriate risk warnings were provided alongside the service agreement.
Ref: DRN12678402The answers Mr S gave Plus500 when he opened  his account led it to conclude he didnt 
have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks of trading CFDs. So it sent him 
the following  warning:
Based on the answers you provided in the Assessment of Appropriateness section of the
Questionnaire you completed  earlier, together with the risks associated with CFD trading, we 
do not consider  that a CFD account  is appropriate  for you.
There was an option for Mr S to continue but the warning explicitly says he may be exposing 
himself to risks that fall outside his knowledge and experience. It pointed out that Mr S 
should familiarise himself  with the demo account, free educational material  and risk warning 
on its website. It went  onto explain that CFDs are leverage products and carry a high level 
of risk to capital and he could lose his entire  trading balance.
In order for Mr S to proceed (and open  an account) he needed  to confirm he read and 
understood the following  declaration:
Declaration  I acknowledge your warning  that a CFD account may not be appropriate for 
me. However, I wish to proceed  with my application  and I understand the risks associated 
with CFD trading.  I am aware of your demo account and the educational  material  on your 
website.
As Mr S did open the account and began trading I am satisfied he saw the declaration  and 
confirmed he agreed to the user agreement.
Under COBS 10.3.3G when a business doesnt think it appropriate  for a customer  to open 
an account but the customer wants to continue anyway, its for the business to decide  
whether to let them having regard for the customers circumstances and interests.
Plus500 has said its consideration of the circumstances takes into account  the information  
the consumer  provided  in the on-boarding questionnaire. However it went on to say that if 
circumstances arose  once a customer had begun  trading that indicated  that the CFD 
account wasnt suitable it would consider terminating the relationship.
Having considered Mr S answers to the on-board questionnaires, high volume  of trades  
placed and the fact he continued to want to trade once he received the risk warning, I dont  
think it was unreasonable for Plus500 to have allowed Mr S to trade.
So with this in mind I am satisfied Plus500  met the appropriateness  requirements and Mr S 
was given and the necessary risk warnings.
Ive also considered Mr S trading history  on the account, to see if Plus500 should  have  been  
aware at any time that Mr S didnt  have the appropriate knowledge  or experience  to continue 
trading. Mr S placed  1,238 trades in various assets. He placed  a similar amount of winning 
and losing trades. Although I appreciate the overall losses  exceeded  the profit. So with that 
in mind, I dont think its fair to say that Plus500 should have had cause to be concerned.
Particularly after Mr S had confirmed hed read and understood  the risk warnings, had the 
option to view the demo account and confirmed he understood how CFDs work. And his 
trading pattern didnt appear  to be a concern.
Ive also taken into consideration  Mr S health  issues. And while  I am sorry to hear about  his 
current circumstances, I dont think its fair to say Plus500 shouldnt have allowed him to 
Ref: DRN12678403open an account or stop him from being  able to trade. I say this because I havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest it was aware of Mr S health  conditions prior to opening the account.
The account  was closed on 7 June 2017 and Mr S made Plus500 aware  of his health 
conditions on 17 June  2017.
gold account
Mr S account was upgraded to a gold account  on 1 May 2017  without his consent. But I can 
see in the email Mr S was sent notifying him about  the upgrade it provides an email address 
for Mr S to contact if he wished to return to a regular Plus500 account.  He downgraded on
8 May 2017  and upgraded  again on 9 May 2017  before  downgrading again  on 24 May
2017. So I am satisfied  Mr S was aware he could  downgrade and that he made use of the 
gold account.  In any event, I cant see how Mr S was impacted by this. It allowed him to 
receive a 5% discount on premium charges and had no impact on leverage.
trades after 27 May 2017
I understand that Mr S has said he stopped using the account  after 27 May and doesnt 
remember placing any of the trades  listed on his account. But after considering  the evidence 
provided including the date the trades were placed,  where they were placed and trading 
history of the account, I think on balance its likely  it was Mr S who initiated the trades.
Mr S has said he tried to recall these transactions  and because some were  successful, it 
supports the fact he says it wasnt him who placed  the trades. I have also taken into 
consideration this point  along with the chargeback request. And Im satisfied it doesnt 
impact my overall  conclusion.  I say this because:
While  Mr S did have  eight  successful chargebacks there  were  also 39 requests which  
were unsuccessful.
There are a number of reasons for a why a charge back is successful and in this 
case Plus500 are unable to provide further  details  about  that.
I have looked  at the 47 chargeback request made, and where those trades  were  
placed. Im satisfied that the details of where  the trades were placed and trading 
history match that of previous trades  made by Mr S before  27 May 2017.
Plus500 hasnt been  able to provide me with the reasons why the 8 chargeback  requests 
were successful and the reason for why 39 were unsuccessful. But if Mr S wants  to provide 
further information round this I would be happy to reconsider the point.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision my findings remain  the same.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN12678404Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1267840