K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains Hyundai Capital UK Limited,  trading  as Kia Finance (Kia), have provided 
an incorrect settlement figure  for the early repayment of a conditional sale agreement.
background
Mrs G was interested in purchasing a car from Kia and visited  her local dealership  to look at 
the options available to her. She decided upon  a brand new car. After discussion with the 
salesperson, she understood the only way she could obtain a discount on the new car was 
to take out a conditional sale agreement.
Mrs G says this wasnt her preference as she wanted to buy the car outright and so she went  
into quite a detailed  discussion with the salesperson about the interest rate, early  repayment 
options and any penalties that may apply. After  a few calculations she felt this was the best 
option and facilitated a discount, she says she was told she otherwise would not have  been  
entitled to. So, she acquired the car, financed  on this option with an interest rate of 2.52%.
After three months, she gave the required notice to settle the finance under the agreement.  
When she received the settlement figure, Mrs G didnt find it to be correct  and so she 
complained to Kia.
In their final response, Kia said the settlement  figure was calculated  correctly and in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the agreement. It said the settlement figure was 
calculated at the agreed interest rate and included 58 days  additional interest permitted 
under the agreement.
Mrs G remained  unhappy, as she had specifically asked about any fees or penalties as she 
had always intended  to repay  the finance  early.  She felt the agreement  had been mis-sold to 
her and referred her complaint to this service.
An adjudicator looked into things for Mrs G. He said he couldnt comment on what  was said 
at the time, as he wasnt present and so had to rely on the information available. He found 
the settlement  figure to be calculated correctly  and using the correct rate of interest and so 
he didnt ask Kia to do anything further.
Mrs G disagreed. She remains of the opinion the calculation is incorrect  and so she asked 
for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. I appreciate Mrs G will be disappointed but Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons, Ill explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what  I think is more 
likely to have happened.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN18323612board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate Mrs G has made it very clear on a number of occasions that this is the first time 
she has taken out any form of finance, with the exception of a mortgage. She also intended 
to settle the finance in full from inception and so I dont doubt  she would have asked a 
number of questions  about how to go about  that and any implication of doing so. 
Because I wasnt present when the discussions took place between  Mrs G and the 
dealership, I cant be certain  of what was said. Theres  no contemporaneous evidence of 
what was discussed.  In the circumstances, I need  to look at the available  documentary 
evidence in order to determine whats more likely to have happened  at the time when the 
agreement was entered into.
Ive looked carefully  at the conditional  sale agreement Mrs G took out. As the adjudicator 
has already pointed out it is a credit agreement regulated  by the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit  (Agreements) Regulations  2010 further explain what the credit 
agreement must contain. As the adjudicator has already gone into this detail in some  length 
and I dont think Mrs G is contending the validity of the agreement, I dont intend to repeat it 
here, but Im satisfied  the agreement  Mrs G took out met all of the regulatory requirements.
The agreement allows for early settlement, which Mrs G understood from inception.  The 
settlement figure Mrs G was calculated  to include a rebate of interest. This rebate is 
calculated using a set formula, which is detailed in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. The regulations are there to protect borrowers when they repay  their loan 
early and ensure  the borrower doesnt pay all the interest due under the agreement when 
the finance is settled earlier. The same regulations allow  Kia to defer the settlement by 58 
days. Ive looked at the calculation and found it to be in line with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement  and the regulations mentioned above so I cant say Kia have done anything 
wrong here.
Mrs G made  her final monthly instalment on 19 September  2018.  Kia added a deferment 
period up to 19 November 2018.  The capital outstanding was £12,312.41  plus two payments 
of £237.27 and £236.33 including interest. 
In order for me to be satisfied theres  been a misrepresentation  I would need to be 
persuaded that the dealership made  an untrue statement  of fact and that this was the main  
reason that induced  Mrs M into entering  into the agreement. 
Im not persuaded this is the case.  Mrs G made her final monthly  instalment on 19 
September 2018. Kia added a deferment period up to 19 November  2018.  The capital 
outstanding was £12,312.4. Kia then added the permitted two months repayments totalling  
£472.66 (£236.33 x 2) and credited a small interest  rebate of £1.63. The final settlement 
figure was £12,783.44. Mrs G paid £12,611.47 and this left a balance of £171.97 remaining.
From what  Ive seen the settlement figure appears  to have been calculated correctly  and in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the agreement  and so Im not able to uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN18323613my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832361