K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) committed a list of wrongdoings related to 
his trading account. Mr Bs list is summarised as follows:
In January 2017 his account  was upgraded to Gold status  without his consent. [issue  
1]
His entitlement to a trading bonus  was made dependent on him completing a number 
of transactions.  [issue 2]
In February 2017 Plus500 required him to close his open positions  and his account. 
[issue 3]
Plus500s system prevented him from closing a specific position on 23 February 
2017 and another specific position  on 3 September 2018.  [issue 4]
Plus500 wrongly applied margin call closures to four specific  positions in 2018  one 
on 6 August, another on 7 August, another on 24 August and another  on 23 October. 
[issue 5]
Plus500 withdrew Options CFD trading without notice, it does not provide customer 
support over the telephone and its withdrawal process takes  too long. [issue 6]
Plus500 wrongly charged additional rollover fees for two of his Germany  30 CFD 
positions in March 2018. [issue  7]
Plus500 wrongly applied a stop loss to close his Natural Gas positions(s) on 8 
January 2018,  thereby significantly reducing  the profit he could have made. [issue  8]
On 3 May 2018 another  stop loss closed a Germany 30 position and reduced his 
account equity,  which also prevented  him from making a withdrawal from the account 
at the time. [issue 9]
Plus500 failed  to apply a stop loss to a position and delayed the processing of funds 
paid into his account in order to avoid  a margin call. [issue 10] 
Plus500 applied  margin calls at arbitrary levels. [issue 11]
background
One of our investigators  addressed the complaint issues as follows:
With regards to issues 1, 2, 3 and 6  Mr B requested and was granted  an immediate 
downgrade on the day after the account  upgrade, so no detriment was caused; the 
agreed terms of the account and of the trading bonus justified the minimum trading 
volume requirement that Mr B had to meet;  he asked to close his account in February  
2017 and was told, for his benefit, to close his positions before the account  was 
closed, so no wrongdoing was committed; the agreed terms allowed Plus500 to 
withdraw a product  from trading in terms of new positions but without disrupting  
existing open  positions (which could  either  have been closed  or expired); Plus500 
has discretion to provide customer support only through  emails and live chats (not 
telephone) and evidence shows  it responded to Mr Bs queries in a timely manner; 
there is no evidence  of withdrawals taking longer  than stated in the agreed terms.
There is insufficient evidence to properly determine issue 10 and issue 11 has 
already been addressed in a separate complaint within this service.
With regards to issue 4, the delay (of around one minute)  in closing the position on 
23 February 2017 was caused by increased  price volatility  at the time due to the 
release of relevant price sensitive news; on 3 September  2018 Plus500 could have 
done more to help Mr B close  the position, but evidence shows  that the position  was 
eventually closed  at a better price than the price he had initially sought to close  it.
Ref: DRN13896022Evidence shows that margin calls were correctly applied to the positions  in issue  5 
and there is no evidence to conclude that the closing prices applied to them  were  
unfair  Plus500  provided evidence to show they were  fair.
With regards to issue 7, additional rollover fees were  not charged  for the positions  in 
March 2018. Evidence  shows that upon  the automatic rollover  of the underlying  
expired contracts  the account (including its equity)  was adjusted  to reflect  the 
difference in price  between the previous and subsequent  contracts.
In relation to issue 8, the stop loss level applied to the Natural  Gas positions was 
accurate  Mr B accepts this, but he says the price never reached that level so the 
stop loss should  never  have been applied and his positions would have continued to 
make significantly  more profit in line with the market movement  in the week  
thereafter. However, evidence from Plus500s  system shows  that the price did reach  
the stop loss level,  the Natural Gas positions  were closed at that point and other  
traders positions were closed at the same level  and some  at an even worse  level.
In issue 9 Mr Bs ability to withdraw  from the account on 3 May 2018 was affected  by 
the existence of his open trades  opened before and after the withdrawal attempt. 
There was an erroneous stop closure  the following day (4 May), however Plus500 
has already compensated Mr B financially for that. 
Mr B has not accepted  this outcome, so it has been  referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I do not uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint.
The investigator gave  thorough treatment  to the numerous  issues  raised in Mr Bs complaint 
and, commendably,  she appears to have verified and tested everything submitted by both 
parties. In addition, she provided detailed and ongoing explanations behind  her findings. As 
such, I do not propose to repeat the details she gave. However,  both parties are entitled  to 
reasoned findings within  this decision, so I summarise those findings as follows:
I was the ombudsman who issued the decision in Mr Bs separate complaint and the 
matters raised in issue 11 were indeed  addressed in that decision. I do not consider  
that there are grounds to revisit  those matters in this decision.
I do not consider  that there  is enough  evidence to determine  the matters  Mr B has 
raised in relation to issue 10. To his credit, Mr B has assisted this service  with 
focused information about some  of the issues listed above,  however issue  10 is 
lacking in this respect.  
I can appreciate the idea of Mr B complaining about issue  1 on principle, given that 
the Gold account upgrade was done without his consent. However, the matter was 
promptly reversed upon his request and it does not appear to have caused any harm. 
The terms agreed for Mr Bs account justified the matters  in issues 2 and 6  and in 
terms of the withdrawal process,  I agree with the investigators note that there  does 
not appear to be evidence of Plus500 breaching them in relation to any particular 
withdrawal by Mr B. With regards to issue 3, it does not appear to be clear what the 
matter of complaint  is. Mr B responded to one of the investigators views with 
Ref: DRN13896023annotated comments  on some of the issue sub-headings within the view. I note that 
he appears to have made no annotated  comment in relation to issue 3.
I accept Plus500s explanation  and evidence about volatility  that affected  for 
around one minute  closure of Mr Bs position  on 23 February 2017. Said volatility  
affected its price feed and there are provisions  within the terms for the account  which  
meant it was entitled to have  its system  resolve  the price  feed issue before 
presenting prices on which a position  could be traded  or, in Mr Bs case, a price on 
which a position  could be closed. With regards to the position  on 3 September  2018, 
I note that Plus500 remains  unhappy with the investigators view that it could have 
done more to help Mr B  its position  is that Mr B did not ask for help at the time. In 
any case, the fact appears to be that the position was closed  at a better price than 
the price he had initially sought  to close it, so no detriment arose from this matter. 
Overall, I do not consider  that there is a matter in issue  4 to uphold.
Plus500 has provided sufficient explanation and evidence  information from which  
appears to have been shared with Mr B  to show that the positions in issue  5 were  
closed fairly on the basis of margin  calls and that the closing prices applied  to them 
were not wrong.  I am persuaded by this evidence and conclude that it did not close  
the positions wrongly. I draw  a similar  conclusion for issue  7, with regards to which 
Plus500 also provided explanation and evidence to show that an adjustment   not 
additional fees  was applied to the March  2018  positions. Supporting  evidence  
includes the rollover adjustment provisions  in section 13.4 of the agreed terms. 
Mr B appears to have  been most vehement about his claim that Plus500  had 
committed a wrongdoing in relation  to issue 8. I can understand why. The level of 
profit he says he lost from the positions  in this issue is significant, so he has been  
notably determined  to maintain his assertion that Plus500 is to blame unless proven 
otherwise. Quite recently, the investigator  was able to obtain evidence  from Plus500 
which shows that the price related to the positions did reach the stop loss level that 
Mr B accepts  he set  so the positions  were  correctly closed at the level he set. 
There is evidence of all the comparable positions that were closed on the same date 
and at the same time as Mr Bs positions. Many other positions were  closed  at, 
slightly below and slightly above the same  price. Contrary to his suspicion, Mr Bs 
positions do not appear to have been  singled out.
I agree  with the investigators conclusion on issue 9. The effect of activity within his 
open positions  including  the effect on the level of equity in the account  extended  
to the funds available for Mr B to withdraw  whilst those positions  remained opened. 
Evidence suggests that he proceeded to cancel his withdrawal  request on 3 May 
2019 shortly,  on the same day, after submitting  it  possibly because of his 
awareness of this correlation. He has suggested that an erroneous  stop loss caused 
the withdrawal problem but I have not seen enough  information  to establish that this 
was the case.  In terms of the matter   and error  that took place the following day, 
as the investigator  said, Plus500 has already resolved it with compensation paid to 
Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 16 September 2019.
Ref: DRN13896024Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389602