K820x#14complaint
A representative, on behalf  of F, the company  which Ill refer to as the company - 
complains about  a commercial fixed rate loan taken  out with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
The company is unhappy with a commercial fixed rate loan which was sold to them in 2011 
by Barclays. In particular  they dont think they were given an adequate explanation of the 
potential size of break  costs.
An adjudicator has already considered this complaint. He didnt feel this was a complaint 
which he could uphold.  The adjudicator acknowledged that he hadnt seen evidence  to show 
that Barclays had properly explained break costs to the company. But even if the company 
had been provided with clearer  information,  he still felt they would have chosen the same 
fixed rate product with the same term.
Unhappy with the adjudicators findings,  this case has been referred to me to now consider. I 
can assure both parties that Ive looked at all the evidence which  has been submitted. And 
this includes the additional submissions each  party  has made  since the adjudicator  issued 
their view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to say that I too am unable to 
uphold this complaint for reasons in line with those already  expressed  by the adjudicator.  
Like the adjudicator,  Im not persuaded Barclays did enough to explain the potential  
magnitude of break costs if the company was to repay their borrowing early. However I must 
decide what I think the company would have done instead, if theyd been  given  clearer 
information. 
Overall I feel the company  would still have proceeded to fix for the term they did. Im aware  
that fixing the interest rate wasnt  a condition of the borrowing.  The borrowing was initially  
drawn down in 2009 and the interest  rate only fixed in 2011. From the evidence  Ive seen its 
clear that the company was happy  to fix the interest  rate on their borrowing and understood 
the benefits this would give them in terms of certainty of their monthly outgoings. 
Ive given a great deal of thought to all the companys submissions  surrounding potentially  
repaying the borrowing early and the nature of the companys operations being such that 
needing to review their lending  facilities  from time to time was reasonably  likely.  The 
company in particular  has explained  that a clear  and demonstrable strategy  existed to sell 
outlying land to fund any sizeable acquisitions. But what I have concern with is to what 
extent Barclays was made aware of these plans prior to the fixed  rate loan being agreed. 
From what  Ive seen I dont think it was obvious  that the company would need to retain  
flexibility during  the term of the borrowing.
Im aware the company  took some time to complain to Barclays after being  told of the size of 
the break costs.  Ive considered the comments about not wanting to cause problems  in their 
relationship with Barclays and about  the break cost at that stage  only being theoretical.  The 
company has explained  that so long as there was the potential for further land purchases,  
Ref: DRN15980482break costs  would not be payable. So there  was no rationale to complain regarding  a cost 
that would  not be incurred. But I do still have  concerns as to why it took the company so long 
to formally complain to Barclays.  Whilst  Ive considered this issue  careful, Im afraid  I would 
have expected a complaint to be raised  sooner.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of the company, to accept  or reject  my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1598048