K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the management  of his trading account by NOTESCO UK LIMITED 
(NOTESCO).
background
On 10 April 2018 NOTESCO closed out, amongst others, 3 USD/TRY long positions  Mr R 
had open on his account, at a loss of approximately  $76,000. 
On 9 May 2018  NOTESCO closed  out, amongst others, 2 USD/TRY long positions Mr R had 
open on his account, at a loss of approximately $78,000. On the same date Mr R closed out 
1 USD/TRY  long position himself at a loss of approximately $13,000.
On 15 May 2018 NOTESCO closed out, amongst others, 9 USD/TRY long positions  Mr R 
had open on his account, at a loss of approximately  $225,000.
Following the 15 May 2018 closures  on his account  Mr R complained to NOTESCO. In 
summary he said that in his view NOTESCO had manipulated the spread on its USD/TRY 
pairs meaning that there was no realistic  prospect  of him being able to hedge  his exposure.
NOTESCO didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said that all the positions it closed 
out were done  correctly  and in line with the trading account terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with NOTESCOs decision to not uphold his complaint Mr R referred  it to our 
service.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who concluded that NOTESCO 
had done nothing wrong in its management  of Mr Rs trading  account.
Mr R didnt agree and so his complaint  has been passed to me for review and decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
Its clear Mr R has very strong feelings  about this matter.  He has provided  detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. 
However, I trust that Mr R will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and that they are expressed  in considerably  less detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose  of 
my decision  is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.  
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN12943142Mr Rs main complaint is that NOTESCO widened the spread unreasonably and unfairly on 
its USD/TRY  pairs such that he was unable to hedge a number of his open long positions in 
these. But having  considered what both parties  have said and submitted on this point Im 
simply not persuaded that this was the case.  Notwithstanding that an allegation of spread 
manipulation is a very serious  one (and one where  the bar is set very high) I find 
NOTESCOs submissions on this point to be both plausible and persuasive. That is the 
spread widened on these pairs  due to illiquidity and volatility and due to TRY being at 
historical lows. Therefore  I dont uphold this aspect  of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R has also submitted  that:
He understood  he had a zero split account which meant  that spreads offered by 
NOTESCO on his trades  would  be zero, or at worst,  very small.
His positions would only be automatically  closed out when his margin was equal  to, 
or less than, 60% of the margin  or leverage level requirement,  not 80%.
NOTESCO  had, in previous communications with him, agreed  to refund 50% of his 
losses.
Im satisfied that Mr R did indeed open  a zero split account. But Ive seen no documentary 
evidence that would  lead me to conclude that this meant Mr R was able to benefit from a 
zero, or very small spread, on all trades  he placed. I would also add that I find NOTESCOs 
submission that its clients with a zero split account benefit from a lower  spread than other  
clients on certain major currency pairs, but not exotic  currency pairs,  to be both plausible 
and persuasive. Therefore I dont uphold this aspect  of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R says that it was agreed  that his positions  would  only be automatically closed out when 
his margin was equal to, or less than, 60% of the margin  or leverage level requirement, not 
80%. But Ive seen no documentary evidence in support of what Mr R says on this point. 
Indeed the documentary evidence that Ive seen,  and which R doesnt appear to dispute  he 
has seen, states:
8.4 In the event that there is insufficient Margin  in the Clients  Account or in the event that 
the deposited Margin is not sufficient  to meet the required Margin  rates,  as determined by 
the Company  it may immediately close or terminate the Clients  Transaction and Account 
without notice. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing 8Safe UK Limited shall 
have the right, but shall not be obliged, to start closing  Clients positions starting from the 
most unprofitable, when the Margin is less than 100% of the Margin or Leverage Level 
requirement. In the case where the Margin is equal to or less than 80% of the Margin  or 
Leverage Level requirement,  then Clients positions  shall be automatically  closed, starting  
from the most unprofitable, at the then market  price.
Therefore I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R says that NOTESCO, in previous communications with him, had agreed to refund 50% 
of his losses. But Ive seen no documentary evidence in support of what Mr R says on this 
point. Indeed the documentary evidence that Ive seen seems to make it clear that 
NOTESCO was holding Mr R responsible for 100% of all the losses posted to his trading 
account.
Ref: DRN12943143Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive considered the trading 
account opening process Mr R was subject  to and the information he provided  as part of that 
process. And having done so Im satisfied that the trading account Mr R was offered and 
opened wasnt inappropriate  for him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr R doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
NOTESCO UK LIMITED.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1294314