K822xcomplaint
Ms B is complaining that an adviser  who worked for Dhanda Financial, an appointed 
representative of TenetConnect Services Limited  (Tenet), induced her to give him money 
that he then misappropriated for his own ends. The adviser has since been  convicted of 
fraud and imprisoned.  As Dhanda Financial was an appointed representative of Tenet, Ms B 
feels its responsible  for her losses.
background 
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and includes a summary of the circumstances and 
background to this complaint.
Ms B wrote  to confirm receipt of my provisional decision and had no further  points to make. 
Tenet also said it had nothing to add, although it did provide some more information  about 
the monthly fees the adviser  charged Ms B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed. Im partly  upholding it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Ms B accepts  my decision, TenetConnect Services  Limited must pay the compensation 
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14788822extract from provisional decision:
background
Ms B says shes been a client of the adviser for a number  of years  and paid a monthly fee that rose to 
£100 for his advice for much of that time.
Starting in 2008, Ms B says she was defrauded by the adviser and made  a number of payments to 
him that were funded from a variety of different  sources. She says the money  was given to the adviser 
initially for overseas property  investments and later as personal loans. From reading her police 
witness statement and the bank statements she provided, my understanding of the key transactions  
at the centre of this complaint is as follows:
1 July 2008  received £58,000 from a property sale
July 2008  payment  A  payments totalling £57,000  to the adviser
September 2008  received a £40,000 lump sum from her employers pension following her 
retirement
September 2008  payment B - £40,000 to the adviser
December 2008  took a £15,000 bank loan
December 2008  payment C - payments totalling £16,600 to the adviser
18 May 2010  received £49,697 by cashing a stocks and shares ISA with Sterling
20 May 2010  payment D - £50,000 to the adviser
23 June 2010  withdrew £8,000 from a Sterling  ISA
25 June 2010  payment E - £8,000 to the adviser
17 November 2010  received £7,900 from Sterling
22 November 2010  payment F - £7,900 to the adviser
3 March 2011  received £12,833 by cashing a Skandia  investment
7 March 2011  payment G - £12,800  to the adviser
27 April 2011  withdrew £25,000 from stocks and shares ISA with Sterling
27 April and 4 May 2011  payment H  payments totalling £21,500 to the adviser
31 October 2011  received £3,606 from the maturity of a Liverpool  and Victoria policy
November 2011  payment I £1,500 paid to the adviser
16 February 2012  received £16,712 by cashing stocks  and shares  ISAs  with Skandia
17 February 2012  payment J - £12,980 paid to the adviser
July 2012  received  £7,365 from her late mothers estate
Ref: DRN14788823July 2012  payment  K  payments totalling £7,000 to the adviser
August and September 2012  payment  L  payments totalling £6,500 to the adviser
12 October 2012  received £14,273 by cashing a stocks and shares  ISA with Sterling
12 October 2012  payment M - £14,000  paid to the adviser
19 October 2012  received £19,268 by surrendering five Skandia policies
19 October 2012  payment N  payments totalling £19,000 to the adviser
February to July 2013  payments O, P, Q and R  payments totalling  £4,100 to the adviser
Ms B has also said she paid a monthly fee to the adviser between 2003 and January 2009. After  this, 
I understand the fee was incorporated into the loan repayments he promised.
Since the adviser was convicted, Ms B has received back some of the money she gave him from the 
court. She says shes received payments totalling £19,263.26, consisting of £13,619.42 on 6 February 
2017, £450.75  on 4 May 2017, £5,113.03 on 5 June 2017,  £18.01 on 6 October  2017, £33.64 on 5 
December 2017 and £28.41 on 8 March 2018.
Tenet initially didnt accept Ms Bs complaint. It said the fraudulent investments and loans were 
unregulated private arrangements between Ms B and the adviser. And that this type of arrangement 
wasnt covered by its agreement with Dhanda Financial, meaning it didnt authorise it and cant be 
held responsible.
Our investigator felt Tenet should be held responsible  for payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N to the 
adviser and recommended it pay appropriate compensation.
Tenets solicitors  responded  first and made the following  key points:
Ms Bs complaint  is about  unregulated loans and investments, not any advice  she received in 
respect of existing  regulated  products. Complaints about unregulated  arrangements arent 
covered by our jurisdiction.
This type of arrangement wasnt authorised by Tenet under the appointed representative 
agreement. The advisers activities  in this complaint were outside the scope of what he was 
authorised to do under  the agreement  between Tenet and Dhanda Financial and it cant be 
held responsible.
Theres not enough  evidence to show all the relevant transactions relate  to regulated activities 
that were advised on or arranged  by the adviser. The investigators conclusions  are based 
almost entirely  on Ms Bs witness  statement and guessing what advice  she might have 
received.
Tenet has more  recently sent further submissions,  making the following key points:
In respect of payments  M and N, the advisers  suitability letter dated 8 October 2012 records 
Ms B planned to use the money she was going  to receive from cashing  her investments to 
pay a lump sum off her mortgage and visit a family member overseas  and that this is what the 
adviser recommended. Tenet cant be held responsible if Ms B then went  against that advice 
and did something else with her money.
It hasnt  been provided with sufficient evidence  to show the adviser was involved  in the 
cashing of the investments used to fund payments E, F, G, H and J.
Ref: DRN14788824It has already made  redress  payments to Ms B in relation to three of the Skandia policies she 
cashed in October 2012.
my provisional  findings
Both parties have  made detailed submissions in this case  and I havent tried to address  every point 
raised in this decision.  Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think  are the key issues.  Ive explained 
why I think  we can consider parts of this complaint and also what  I think  Tenet should do to put things 
right.
Throughout my decision,  Ive referred to the rules I must follow in assessing all aspects  of this 
complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules, published  as part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook.
As the industry regulator, it would be for the FCA to monitor Tenets oversight and supervision  of 
Dhanda Financial  and I wont be commenting on that. The only thing I will say is that this complaint is 
the result of a sophisticated fraud. But that doesnt mean Tenet isnt ultimately responsible  for some of 
the advisers actions.
Tenets solicitors  have questioned the nature of the actual  complaint being  made, but I think  its clear 
from her correspondence  and police  witness statement  that Ms B sees the sale of her existing 
investments as part of the transactions shes complaining about. So Im satisfied its appropriate to 
consider both issues in addressing this complaint.
In reaching this decision, Ive relied on the following  key pieces of evidence:
Ms Bs police witness statement dated 4 June 2014.
a telephone  note from Sterling that records  the adviser called on 17 May 2010 to confirm  
details of the account  payment should be made to.
a bank statement  showing receipt of £49,697 from Sterling on 18 May 2010 and a cheque 
payment of £50,000 on 20 May 2010 (payment D).
a bank statement  showing receipt of £8,000 from Sterling on 23 June  2010 an a transfer out 
for £8,000  on 25 June  2010 (payment E).
a bank statement  showing receipt of £7,900 from Sterling on 17 November  2010 and a 
transfer out for £7,900 on 22 November 2010  (payment F).
a covering letter from Dhanda Financial to Skandia dated 17 February 2011, enclosing  an 
instruction to cash Ms Bs investment.
bank  statements showing receipt of £12,833.11 from Skandia on 3 March  2011 and a transfer 
out for £12,800 on 7 March  2011 (payment G).
a bank statement  showing receipt of £25,000 from Sterling on 27 April 2011 and transfers out 
of the account for £18,000 on the same day and £3,500 on 4 May 2011 (payment H).
a bank statement  showing receipt of £7,958.77 and £8,754.37  from Skandia on 16 February  
2012 and a transfer out of the account of £12,980 on the following day (payment J).
a covering letter from Dhanda Financial to Sterling dated 5 October 2012, enclosing  an 
instruction to cash Ms Bs investment.
a bank statement  showing receipt of £14,273 from Sterling on 12 October 2012 and a transfer 
out for £14,000 on the same  day (payment M).
a letter from Old Mutual confirming the early surrender of five savings policies with a 
combined value of £19,271 on 9 October 2012.
a bank statement  showing receipt of five payments  totalling £19,271  from Skandia on 19 
October 2012 and three transfers out totalling £19,000  on the same day (payment N).
bank  statements dated May 2003 an March 2004 showing Ms B made regular payments of 
between £25 and £30 to Dhanda  Financial.
bank  statements showing Ms B made regular  monthly  payments of £100 to Dhanda  Financial 
between August  2005  and January  2009.
Ref: DRN14788825bank  statements from January 2009 to November  2013 showing  the repayments  Ms B 
received from Dhanda Financial.
bank  statements showing most of the payments Ms B received from the court  in 2017 and 
2018.
If Tenet hasnt  seen any of this information and would like to, it can ask the investigator for copies  
before responding to this provisional decision
jurisdiction
We can consider  a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a 
firm in the carrying out of one or more listed activities, including regulated activities, or any ancillary 
activities carried on by the firm in connection with those  activities (DISP  2.3.1).
Complaints about acts or omissions  by a firm include complaints about acts or omissions in respect of 
activities for which the firm is responsible, including  the business of any appointed representative for 
which the firm has accepted responsibility  (DISP 2.3.3G).
So there are two questions to be considered before I can decide whether this complaint falls within 
the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts being  complained about done in carrying out a regulated activity?
2.Did those  acts constitute business  for which Tenet accepted  responsibility?
were the acts being complained about  done in carrying out a regulated activity?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
The fraudulent property investment and loan are not relevant investments as defined  in the RAO, 
meaning advising  on and/or  arranging them wasnt a regulated activity. But Ive also carefully 
considered whether the investment and loan were made in connection  with other activities that were 
regulated, or other  activities specified in DISP 2.3.1.
payments A, B, C, I, K, L, O, P, Q and R
Payments A and B were  funded by money Ms B received from the sale of a property and her 
employers pension scheme. Its not clear whether the adviser was involved in these transactions at 
all, but even  if he was that wouldnt constitute  a regulated activity under  the RAO.
Ms B took out a loan to fund payment C. I note she says she was encouraged to do this by the 
adviser, but any recommendation  to borrow money wasnt in itself a regulated  activity. Credit  broking 
is potentially regulated, but Ive currently seen nothing to indicate the adviser brokered the loan or 
otherwise received payment for it.
Payment I appears to have been funded  by the proceeds of a maturing  endowment policy. While the 
policy was a relevant investment under the RAO, Ive seen no evidence the adviser carried out any 
regulated activity, or that he would have needed to when the policy was maturing anyway.
Payment K appears  to have been  funded by money Ms B had in her account following  a recent 
payment from her late mothers estate. And payments L, O, P, Q and R appear to have been made  
from money Ms B already had in her account.  Theres no suggestion Ive seen that any of these 
payments were connected  to any regulated  activity by the adviser  at the time.
Ref: DRN14788826payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  an investment that is a security or relevant  investment, and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe to a security or relevant  
investment, are both regulated activities. If any of the payments Ms B made to the adviser  were 
funded by the sale of a security  or relevant  investment,  and the adviser advised on and/or  arranged 
the sale,  that payment would be part and parcel of that regulated activity and so fall within our 
jurisdiction.
Ms B says the above payments were connected  to the sale of other investments and that the adviser 
was involved in the sales. Since  her account of events is recorded in a police witness statement, I do 
find it to be compelling.  I also think the rest of the available evidence supports what shes said.
payment D - it does  seem  there was an error in Ms Bs witness statement. She initially said this 
payment was funded by money she received from the sale of a property, but shes since shown us 
evidence of property sales in 2006  and 2008,  not 2010. She now says this payment was funded by 
selling investments with Sterling  and this is borne out by a study of her bank statements. As Ive said 
above, these show she received £49,697  from Sterling  on 18 May 2010  followed by a payment of 
£50,000 to the adviser two days  later.  
It seems clear to me these two events are connected and that one wouldnt have  happened without 
the other  Ms B doesnt seem to have had other funds available in her account  she could have used 
to fund the payment instead. I dont think theres any dispute it was the adviser  who proposed  the loan 
the Sterling proceeds funded. On balance, I think its much more  likely  than not that the adviser also 
recommended Ms B cash her existing investments and/or helped  arrange this.
payment E  bank  statements show Ms B received  £8,000 from the sale of more Sterling  investments 
on 23 June 2010 and that the same  amount was transferred to the adviser two days later. Again,  it 
seems clear these  events are connected and I think its more likely than not the adviser also advised 
on and/or arranged the sale as Ms B said in her witness statement.
payment F  bank statements show Ms B received £7,900 from Sterling  on 17 November 2010 and 
that the same amount was transferred to the adviser  two days  later.  As above,  it seems  clear these  
events are connected and I think its more likely  than not that the adviser also advised  on and/or 
arranged the sale as Ms B said in her witness statement.
payment G  bank statements show Ms B received £12,833 from Skandia on 4 March 2011 and that 
£12,000 was paid to the adviser three days later. Skandia has also provided  a covering letter  from 
Dhanda Financial  showing  it sent the disinvestment request to be actioned. I think this evidence 
shows the two transactions were connected and that the adviser also advised  and/or arranged the 
sale of Ms Bs existing  investments.
payment H  bank statements show Ms B received £25,000 from Sterling on 27 April 2011  and paid 
£18,000 to the adviser on the same day and a further  £3,500 on 4 May 2011.  I think  the proximity of 
the events and the fact Ms B didnt  have a significant  sum in her account before the sale shows the 
two events are connected and that one wouldnt have happened without the other. I think its more 
likely than not the adviser also advised on and/or arranged the sale as Ms B said in her witness 
statement. This is supported  by the Sterling encashment  form, which appears to have been 
completed by the adviser for Ms B to sign.
payment J  bank statements show Ms B received £16,712 from Skandia on 16 February  2012 and 
paid £12,980 to the adviser the following day. I think the proximity of the events  and the fact Ms Bs 
account was previously  overdrawn shows the two events are connected and that one wouldnt have 
happened without the other. I think its more likely  than not that the adviser also advised  on and/or 
arranged the sale of her existing investments.
Ref: DRN14788827payments M and N  bank statements  show  Ms B received £14,273  from Sterling  on 12 October  2012 
and paid £14,000 to the adviser  the following  day. And that she received £19,268 from the surrender 
of policies with Skandia on 19 October 2012 and paid £19,000 to the adviser on the same day. The 
advisers suitability letter dated 8 October 2012 shows the adviser  recommended  the surrender of 
these investments and Sterling has also provided  a copy of a covering letter  from Dhanda Financial  
showing it sent in the encashment form to be actioned. 
I appreciate the suitability letter recorded the proceeds of the Sterling  and Skandia investments were  
to be used for other purposes.  But given the fraudulent  nature of the other arrangements he was 
making for Ms Bs money, it wouldnt exactly be a surprise if the adviser didnt document  what  was 
really going on. In any event,  and whatever  Ms B might have initially  intended, I think  the evidence is 
clear that the money  received from the encashments was then used to fund fraudulent payments to 
the adviser and ultimately formed part of the same regulated activity.
did those acts constitute business for which Tenet accepted responsibility?
On the subject of appointed representatives,  section  39 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 
(FSMA) says:
The principal of an appointed  representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The words Ive emphasised  here are particularly important. This means  a principal (Tenet in this case) 
can appoint a representative (Dhanda  Financial) but limit the scope of the regulated activities that 
representative can carry out and that it will be responsible  for.
The activities  Dhanda  Financial was permitted to carry out as an appointed representative  of Tenet 
were set out in an agreement  between the two businesses. Tenet has confirmed  this agreement  
meant the adviser:
was not restricted  in his ability to advise  on the surrender of investments  insofar  as he could 
advise on the surrender of investments from any provider.
In other words, Tenet authorised the adviser  to arrange  and make recommendations for the sale and 
surrender of investments  and it accepted responsibility  for these activities.  So Im satisfied advising 
Ms B on and/or  arranging the sale of units in her Sterling and Skandia investments was included in 
the activities  Dhanda  Financial and its advisers were permitted  by Tenet to carry out. And that Tenet,  
as principal, is therefore responsible  for this regulated activity  and other activities connected to it, 
including the advice to use the proceeds to fund unregulated payments  to the adviser.  Those 
payments should correctly  be considered part of the same regulated activity.
conclusions
The ombudsman service has already dealt with a number  of complaints about advice given by the 
same adviser,  some  of which have been upheld. In the recent case  of Tenetconnect Services Ltd v 
Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018], Tenet disputed an ombudsmans decision on one of these  
complaints.
The judge explained that where a consumer  has been advised to sell a regulated investment in order 
to make an unregulated investment or loan this would form a single piece of regulated investment 
advice. This case largely mirrors that of Ms B. In both cases, the consumers were advised  to sell 
regulated investments to make fraudulent  payments  to the adviser.. 
In his judgement, the judge said the following:
Ref: DRN14788828I would have  concluded, even had the Ombudsman not, that the advice to buy, to put it 
simply, though taken  by itself and in isolation, was unregulated, was here all part and parcel 
of the advice  to sell, and was "regulated". This is not a case  where the advice to sell arose 
from the need  to dispose of an underperforming or risky asset, whereafter the IFA would  look 
for something better. It is not simply that the advice was given at the same time,  or that the 
trades took place so closely  in time. That helps to evidence that the advice  to buy was what  
led to the advice to sell. The advice to sell was given  so that the alternative unregulated 
investments could be made; they were compared, and their advantages persuaded Mr and 
Mrs T to accept the advice to sell. The advice,  put simply was that, because they could do 
better in unregulated  investments, they should  sell the specified investments.  The advice on 
unregulated investment  justified the advice on the specified investments, and in that way, 
became part of the regulated  advice.  The Ombudsman was bound to conclude that they were 
part and parcel of the same  advice. I conclude  that the whole advice was regulated activity, 
and that the Ombudsman  had jurisdiction.   
I believe the judges comments  are also applicable to this case. The advice Ms B is complaining  about 
in respect of payments  D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N (to use the proceeds of existing investments to fund 
payments to the adviser) was part of a regulated activity (the sale of those  existing investments). 
Without the surrender  of the regulated  investments there would have  been no unregulated  loans. So I 
think its correct to consider the sell and the buy advice  as being  inextricably  linked and forming  a 
single piece of regulated advice. 
The judge went on to say that if one piece  of this advice  was the responsibility of Tenet then it would  
be responsible for the whole  of the advice.  The agreement between Dhanda  Financial and Tenet 
didnt limit the advisers activities in advising on the surrender of investments. As Tenet accepted 
responsibility for that part of the advisers activity, it follows that its also responsible for the other parts  
of that regulated activity,  including the unregulated payments to the adviser funded by the surrenders. 
That means this aspect  of the complaint falls within  our compulsory jurisdiction.
 
I dont think we have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the other payments to the adviser  
(payments A, B, C, I, K, L, O, P, Q and R) because they werent connected to a regulated activity or 
any other activity for which  Tenet  accepted responsibility.
I appreciate this isnt entirely the outcome Ms B was hoping for and that it doesnt fully address the 
losses shes suffered. But I have to apply the relevant  rules  and for the reasons  Ive explained, Tenet  
cant be held responsible for all of the advisers actions.
Given my finding that Tenet is responsible for the parts of the fraud  carried out by the adviser  in 
respect of payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N, I think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
compensation for any loss that resulted.
monthly fees
In her police witness  statement, Ms B said she paid the adviser a monthly  fee that rose to £100 for his 
ongoing advice. Unfortunately theres no written record of a formal  agreement with the adviser  
regarding fees. But I do find Ms Bs evidence, given its contained in a formal police witness  
statement, persuasive.  And bank statements certainly  show she made regular monthly  payments to 
the adviser between 2003 and 2009.
The provision of ongoing  investment advice is a regulated activity and was therefore  covered  by 
Dhanda Financials  appointed  representative agreement. This means  Tenet  is responsible for the fee 
agreement and I need  to consider whether compensation should be paid for that too. 
Comparatively speaking, Ms B had relatively  modest, straightforward investment  arrangements. The 
fee the advis er charged was essentially, it seems, a retainer.  This seems excessive in the absence  of 
evidence he planned  to do anything  more  than occasional  reviews of those investments. Im also 
conscious the ongoing contact with the adviser Ms B paid for led to the misappropriation  of her 
Ref: DRN14788829money. In the circumstances, I think its also fair and reasonable to require Tenet to return the fees as 
set out below.  
putting things  right
In assessing whats fair compensation, my aim is to restore (as far as possible) the position that would 
have existed but for the parts of the fraud Tenet is responsible  for.
Ms B has described each of payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N as loans to the adviser. Shes  told us 
she would have left her investments as they were but for the advice she received  to cash them in and 
pay the proceeds to the adviser. Ive seen nothing to indicate she was looking to sell her investments 
and, without his intervention, I think its most likely thats what would  have happened. On that basis, I 
think the current value her money  would have achieved if left invested where it was should form the 
basis of the compensation payment.
In calculating compensation,  I also think it would  be reasonable for Tenet  to take account of:
the monthly repayments Ms B received from the adviser in respect  of the loans under  
payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N only. 
the money Ms B has received from the court in respect of payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N 
only. Payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N account for approximately 52% of the total of 
£278,880 she paid to the adviser. So I think its fairest  to assume  the same proportion of the 
court payments  related  to these payments.
To put things right, for each  of payments  D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N, I currently think Tenet  should pay 
Ms B compensation of A - B, where:
A.= the amount the associated investment(s) with Skandia or Sterling  would now be worth if the 
amount she gave to the adviser  on that occasion had remained where it was. Skandia and 
Sterling should be able to provide the information needed for this part of each calculation.
B.= the total of any money Ms B received  from the adviser in respect of each individual loan to 
the adviser. This refers  only to the part of any money  paid back to her that resulted  from 
these particular  transactions only. This is not necessarily the same as the total of all the 
money she received  from the adviser  in respect of all the payments she gave him.
Once Tenet has completed this calculation for each of payments D, E, F, G, H, J, M and N, the 
separate compensation figures should be added together. From this amount, Tenet would  be entitled 
to deduct 52% of the total of the payments Ms B has received from the court. The result is the total 
amount of compensation to be paid.
If Tenet is concerned  Ms B may recover more money from the advisers  remaining  assets, it should  
be entitled to require her to sign over her rights to 52% of any future payments she receives as part of 
this settlement. Id expect Ms B to agree to that. It would be for Tenet to pay any costs associated  
with drawing up an appropriate agreement.
I note Tenet has already paid compensation  in respect of three  of the Skandia policies Ms B cashed 
in October 2012. But after reviewing the complaint correspondence it recently provided, it looks as 
though that compensation was paid on the basis that they were mis-sold  originally and redress was 
only intended  to compensate her for the fact the surrender values  would have been higher if shed  
received appropriate advice. The compensation  calculations dont  seem to take account of the fact Ms 
B was then defrauded out of the surrender values  she did receive,  so I dont think those  settlements 
are relevant to the complaint  Im addressing here or how appropriate compensation  should be 
calculated.
Ref: DRN147888210In addition to the above, I currently think Tenet should refund each monthly  fee Ms B paid to Dhanda  
Financial (up to the point  the fee was incorporated into the loan repayments in 2009)  plus simple 
interest at 8% per year on each amount from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.  The 
interest is compensation for not having access to this money in the interim.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend the business to pay the 
balance.
determination and award: I currently plan to uphold  the complaint. I consider  that fair compensation  
should be calculated  as Ive set out above. I plan to reach a final decision  that Tenet  should pay Ms B 
compensation calculated as Ive outlined above up to the limit of £150,000.
recommendation: If the amount outlined above and that I consider to be fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I plan to recommend that Tenet pays Ms B the balance. 
This recommendation cannot part of my determination or award. It would not bind Tenet.  Its unlikely 
that Ms B would be able to accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms B may want  
to consider getting independent legal  advice before deciding whether to accept my decision.
Id expect Tenet to calculate  compensation due at the date of my final decision. If this amount isnt 
paid within 28 days of the date on which  Ms B accepts my decision, it would  need to add simple 
interest at 8% per year to the whole amount  from the date of my decision to the date it makes 
payment. Any interest calculated  in this way wouldnt  be included in the £150,000  limit described 
above.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I currently intend to partly uphold this complaint.  I currently think 
TenetConnect Services Limited  should pay Ms B compensation  calculated using the method  set out 
above.
If Tenet doesnt  think its seen any of the evidence  Ive mentioned above and on which  my provisional  
decision is based, it should ask our investigator who will be able to provide copies.
Ref: DRN1478882