K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) offered an unreasonable 
settlement to her buildings insurance  claim.  
background
In March 2019 I issued a provisional decision. Ive attached a copy as it forms part of this 
final decision. In it I said why I didnt intend to require RSA to cover the full cost of rebuilding 
Miss Ds wall. I also asked her and RSA if they had anything further to provide before I made 
my final decision.
RSA didnt provide  anything  more.  It accepted my provisional decision. Miss D didnt. She 
provided comments in response   including that RSAs contractor rocked the wall, that shes  
a practicing surveyor so is aware of the risk to the public of the wall falling. She said to 
remove that risk she had it demolished.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making RSA 
cover the costs of fully rebuilding Miss Ds wall. 
Ive considered everything what Miss D has said in response to my provisional  decision  
including what she says about RSAs contractor making the wall rock. But even if that was 
the case he was of the opinion the wall could be repaired. Ive not seen enough to make  me 
think it couldnt be. Importantly RSA had said if a repair wasnt effective  it would rebuild the 
wall. So I think it would  have been  reasonable to allow it the opportunity  to try a repair first. 
Miss D says the wall was still damaged after nearly  a year.  So she arranged  for it to be 
demolished to avoid it injuring passers-by. But Ive no reason to think  RSA wouldnt have 
repaired, and rebuilt it fully if unsuccessful, earlier if Miss D had allowed it the chance to do 
so. As she didnt it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell RSA to cover  everything she spent 
on the wall. As I said in my provisional  decision it should contribute  what it would have paid 
its supplier to repair the wall. That was £500 minus  Miss Ds £200 policy excess  so £300 in 
total.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc needs to pay Miss D £300, 
if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11495502COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss D complains  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) offered an unreasonable settlement to 
her buildings  insurance claim.   
background
In August 2017 someone damaged Miss Ds boundary wall. RSA said it would  repair the affected area 
of the wall under her buildings insurance  policy. It also offered, as an alternative,  a cash settlement of 
£300 so she could use her own contractor.
 
Miss D was unhappy  with RSAs offer. She wanted the wall to be completely rebuilt. She says it was 
beyond repair. She felt that a repair would leave the wall unsafe  and potentially injure passers-by. 
Miss D still didnt accept RSAs offer so she came to this service. But before our investigator had 
considered her complaint she arranged and paid for the whole wall to be rebuilt herself. She wants 
RSA to cover those costs.  
Our investigator felt Miss D had acted  reasonably  because of a risk of injury to the public. She didnt  
think RSA had done  enough to show the wall could  be repaired. So she said it should  pay Miss D 
what it had cost her to rebuild the entire wall. RSA didnt accept  that, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.  
In response to her complaint RSA paid Miss D some compensation. That was to recognise a mistake 
it had made  with her premium.  She was also unhappy with RSAs communications. She hasnt raised 
those issues with this service so I havent considered them.    
   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to make RSA cover the costs of fully 
rebuilding Miss Ds wall. 
Miss Ds policy says RSA can repair  or replace  damaged parts of her buildings. In this case RSA said 
it would try to repair the wall. This service usually  thinks it reasonable for an insurer to choose to 
repair rather than replace something  but only if it will be a lasting and effective repair. Miss D didnt 
accept it would be. 
RSAs contractor thought the wall could  be repaired. RSA asked one of its other contractors for a 
second opinion.  They  agreed it was repairable.  Miss D provided a quote from a builder.  It says they 
found the structural  integrity compromised and recommended it be rebuilt.  So there are conflicting 
opinions. Thats means Ive had to decide which I find more persuasive.
Ive looked at the photos  from RSA. I cant see anything that makes me think the remaining part of the 
wall is leaning. It doesnt  look unstable. It looks in reasonable condition. Considering  that, Im not 
persuaded a repair couldnt  have been  lasting and effective. 
Its important to note that RSA told Miss D that if a repair didnt prove successful  it would then rebuild  
the wall. It also said it would provide a one year guarantee for its work. Ive considered why Miss D 
says she had the wall rebuilt herself.  But I think RSA made a fair and reasonable offer. So it wouldnt 
be reasonable for me to tell it to cover everything she spent on rebuilding  the wall. But it should  
though make  some  contribution to the work.
RSA cant  now repair the damaged part of the wall. But it did also offer Miss D a cash  settlement as 
an alternative to it doing the repair. It offered  what it says it would  have paid its own suppliers  to do 
the repair.  The policy allows it to do that. This service usually thinks  thats reasonable when a 
Ref: DRN11495503policyholder wants to use their own contractor. The offer was £500 minus  the £200 excess  on her 
policy  so £300 in total. Having seen RSAs  contractors  quote, that seems reasonable.  The amount  
is still available to Miss D if she wants to accept it. If she does she will need to get in touch  with RSA. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to make Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc cover the 
cost of rebuilding Miss Ds wall or do anything differently.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1149550