K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave him a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr P took out one loan with Ferratum in October 2017. He was given a credit limit of £500 
but chose to drawdown only £150 which was due to be repaid on his next pay day. Although  
Mr P applied to drawdown more  money, the terms of the agreement allowed for only one 
outstanding amount at a time. Mr P repaid the loan around 2 weeks  later.
Mr P says the money  was lent to him irresponsibly. He wants the interest  refunded.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Ferratum  shouldnt have given 
Mr P the loan. She thought  that based  on the figures  Mr P had given for his income of £1500 
the repayment of £648  was a significant  proportion of his income. So she recommended that 
the complaint  was upheld.
Ferratum didnt respond but it had earlier pointed out that Mr P only drew down £150 and 
repaid £166.80.  The complaint was then passed to me for a decision because  Ferratum 
didnt respond.
On 27 November 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  setting  out that I was minded to reject 
the complaint.  Mr P has accepted my provisional decision and Ferratum has not responded.
In the circumstances I consider that there is no reason to alter my provisional conclusions 
which are set out below.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN17547172the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
For each loan Mr P told Ferratum he was earning  £1501. He wasnt asked about his 
outgoings. But on the basis of the income Mr P declared the repayment of £166.80 would be 
a small proportion of Mr Ps income.  Ferratum carried  out a credit check  for the loan and 
although the information isnt very helpful  I cant see anything that would suggest Ferratum 
should have done further checks. It was early in the lending relationship and so I cant see 
that Ferratum needed  to do any more.
Ferratum offered Mr P £500 but he did not borrow this amount and when he tried to borrow  
more money after his initial drawdown of £150  Ferratum did not lend. Our adjudicator 
suggested that had Mr P borrowed the full amount of £500 the £648 repayment would have 
been a significant proportion of Mr Ps income. On that basis I would have expected  
Ferratum to establish that Mr P could afford to repay the loan by asking for details of Mr Ps 
outgoings. But looking  at the actual figures I conclude that the amount borrowed was a small 
proportion of Mr Ps income  and Ferratum didnt do anything wrong by lending  to Mr P 
without further  checks. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
8 February 2020.
Ref: DRN17547173Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1754717