K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Listers Group Limited  mis-sold him a guaranteed asset protection 
(GAP), tyre and repair insurance policies.
Reference to Listers includes its agents.
background
In 2016 Listers sold Mr S a car. At the same time it sold him GAP, tyre and repair policies. In 
2019 Mr S complained that Listers  had mis-sold  the policies. He said that Listers had 
pressurised him into buying them.  
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didn't think  Listers  had mis-sold the 
policies. Mr S didn't  agree  so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Listers sold Mr S the policies on whats known  as a non-advised basis. That means  that 
Listers didn't  give Mr S advice on whether or not the policies were suitable for him. But, in 
order to sell the policies  fairly, it would be required to provide Mr S with information about the 
policies that was clear, fair and not misleading.  Thats so Mr S could make an informed 
decision about whether or not he wanted them.
Clearly I wasn't there when Listers sold Mr S the policies. That means its very difficult  for me 
to know exactly what was or wasnt said or exactly what  documents  were  exchanged.  It 
follows that without  some compelling  evidence its very difficult for me to conclude whether 
or not the salesperson used undue pressure when selling the policies. So, to decide whether 
or not Listers did mis-sell the policies  I've carefully  weighed up all the evidence  that is 
available to me. And while I didn't  hear what was discussed, the papers that went with the 
sale dont support Mr Ss recollection of events.
Mr S signed  a number  of documents either  on the day he ordered the car or on the day he 
collected it. One of those  documents,  concerning  the GAP sale, is titled FCA Product 
Customer Initiated Disclaimer. This says, amongst other things:
I am stating that I am happy that I have made  an active  and informed decision to 
purchase this product  based upon the key benefits  and information  that I have been  
provided by the dealer. I understand that this product is not sold exclusively by the 
dealer and that the purchase  is optional.
Mr S has recently sent us a copy of this document which is signed by the dealer but not by 
him. He said Listers didn't ever provide him with a copy signed  by him and he doesn't  accept 
that he made an active and informed decision to buy the policy. But when Mr S sent his 
complaint to us, he attached a number  of documents; one of those is a copy  of the same 
disclaimer document, which Mr S has clearly  signed.  And given that it was Mr S himself who 
gave that document to us, Listers  must  have  given him a copy  of it. So Im satisfied that Mr S 
Ref: DRN17792292did sign the document to say that he'd made an active and informed decision to buy the GAP 
policy.
Similarly Mr S also provided us with a copy of the policy schedule which Listers gave him at 
the time of the sale. And Mr S has signed that to agree that he'd received the relevant key 
facts and terms and conditions documents. And that he agreed it was his responsibility to 
read those  documents to decide  if the policies met his requirement or not. The schedule also 
notes that if Mr S decided  that the policies  didn't  meet his requirements he should refer to 
the relevant cooling  off or cancellation sections of the policies. So, if Mr S had decided  that 
he'd only bought the policies because of the pressure the salesman put on him, he could 
have cancelled them within the cooling off period with a full refund of premium.  But he didn't 
do so. In fact he only complained about  the sale of the policies shortly before they were due 
to lapse. And I think if Mr S had felt pressured into the sale he would have cancelled them 
shortly after.
Mr S said that some  of the documents he has are defective because, although hes signed 
them, theyre not signed by the salesman. He believes this is evidence  that Listers  didn't act 
in accordance with its legal  obligations. 
I need to make to clear  that its not for me to decide whether or not a business  like Listers 
has acted lawfully, that would be a matter for the courts. And while  I will take into account 
the relevant law, my role is to decide whether Listers has acted fairy and reasonably.  And as 
part of the decision  making process Ill consider whether or not Listers  has met its regulatory 
requirements.
In this case I don't think the fact that Listers hasn't signed some  documents is of any 
relevance to whether or not Listers sold the products fairly. The point of the documents is to 
keep a record that Listers  has provided  Mr S with the appropriate information  required in 
order to meet the FCAs regulatory requirements.  Mr S has signed the documents  to say that 
Listers did provide that information. Whether  or not Listers signed the documents doesn't 
change that. So I don't think  the fact that Listers didn't  sign some documentation  meant  that 
it treated Mr S unfairly or mis-sold the policies.
Mr S has added that the documents  he does have say that they are part of a bundle  of 44 
pages but he doesn't have them all. He said:
At no time have I received a document from Listers [name  of car manufacturer] 
which comprises 44 pages. It was incumbent  on Listers [name of car manufacturer]  
to provide this document at the time of sale but they did not do so. There  is no 
evidence that I received  that document and it is therefore invalid .
Its clear that the 44 page bundle is made up of more than one document  as Mr S has sent 
some of those to us. And I don't know which pages  Mr S does have and which  he said are 
missing or why. As I've said above,  as I wasn't  there when the policies were sold I can't  
know exactly what documents Lister provided  and whether or not it provided  the full bundle. 
And its not clear why, if Mr S noticed that he hadn't received the full 44 pages, he didn't ask 
Listers to provide  the missing pages sooner. 
But in any event, as I've said above, Mr S has signed to say he's received the important 
policy information documents, such  as the key facts and terms and conditions.  So I think 
thats persuasive evidence that Listers gave Mr S enough information to make an informed 
decision about whether or not he wanted the policies or not. And for completeness  I haven't  
Ref: DRN17792293seen any evidence that the policies  werent suitable for Mr S. So Im satisfied,  on balance, 
that Listers didnt mis-sell the policies. It follows that I think  it dealt with the sale fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr S has also referred to what happened  when he bought another car recently. He doesn't 
believe that Listers went through the same  process. But as I've said above Im satisfied that 
Listers sold the policies fairly and reasonably. I don't think  Mr Ss recent  purchase is 
convincing evidence of any mis-sale  when he bought policies from Listers.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1779229