K821x#15Complaint
Mrs J complains about the actions taken  by Admiral Insurance  Company Limited after she 
notified it of a road traffic  accident in accordance with the terms of her car insurance policy.  
Background
In April 2018, Mrs J contacted Admiral to let it know her car had collided with another  at a 
junction where three lanes merge into one. She explained that liability  for the accident was 
still being disputed, but she felt that the other party, a commercial lorry driver, was at fault. 
The lorry driver worked for a courier company, who Ill call P. At that stage, Mrs J didnt 
want to make a claim as shed contacted P and asked it to pay the repair work to her car. 
P didnt  agree to pay for the repairs and advised  Mrs J that she should  contact her insurer. 
So, Mrs J got back in touch with Admiral in July 2018. She found out Admiral had logged  that 
she accepted  responsibility for the accident  and recorded a fault  claim after her initial call. 
It had also written to P confirming this. Mrs J raised a complaint because  she said shed only 
told Admiral about the accident for notification  purposes. 
Admiral discovered it had logged that Mrs J accepted responsibility for the accident in error. 
It retracted the admission of liability it had sent to P. But it said it was right to have recorded 
a claim in April 2018  because liability was in dispute and P was likely to claim against Mrs J. 
It carried out an investigation into the accident and didnt conclude that the lorry driver was at 
fault, so it said liability  for the accident  had been  recorded correctly. It said it wasnt  prepared  
to pursue a claim against P for the cost of repairing Mrs Js vehicle.  
Mrs J was unhappy with the standard of Admirals investigation and maintained  that the lorry 
driver was at fault,  not her. She said the recording of a claim at the outset, instead of a 
notification only, had caused her premiums to increase dramatically at her renewal date in 
May 2018. She also highlighted  a number of customer service failings that had occurred  
during Admirals handling of the matter.  She felt Admiral should repair her car without 
charge, contribute towards her premiums and pay compensation. 
Admiral didnt change  its stance on the accident, so it said Mrs J would  need  to pay an 
excess if she claimed for the repairs to her own car. In light of this, Mrs J chose not to claim 
for the damage  to her own car. In the end, although  it did write to Admiral  about the accident, 
P didnt  pursue a claim against Mrs J either. So, Admiral closed the claim, re-categorised  it 
as non-fault because it hadnt paid anything out and reinstated Mrs Js no claims bonus. 
Admiral said Mrs Js renewal premium  wouldnt  have  been any cheaper  if it had recorded the 
accident as non-fault  or notification only in April 2018. But it did accept it could have  
handled things  better overall and given Mrs J clearer information throughout, so it offered to 
pay her £125 compensation. I issued a provisional  decision  on the complaint on 27 January 
2020. Ive included an extract below. I said:
What should have happened in April 2018?
Admiral accepts that it shouldnt have logged that Mrs J accepted responsibility for the 
accident in April 2018. I appreciate that it must have come as a shock to Mrs J when she 
discovered that it had. Having said that, I think P would  have  understood from the fact that 
Mr J had asked it to pay for her repairs that she didnt accept responsibility  for the accident.
Ref: DRN12893412I think its unlikely P would have taken a different stance  on the accident had it not received 
the admission of liability. Its stance doesnt  appear to have changed since it was retracted. 
So, Mrs J would always have had to claim on her policy if she wanted to take things further.
I also need to decide whether Admiral should have logged a claim in April 2018,  or whether it 
should have logged the accident as notification only to start with. Admiral has said it was 
justified in logging  a claim because liability was in dispute. But it seems to accept that it 
didnt actually hear from P about the claim until June 2018. And Mrs J didnt enquire  about 
claiming on her policy until July 2018.  
If someone reports an accident, which they say wasnt  their fault, and they say they dont 
want to make a claim, I dont think it should  be treated as a claim by their insurer unless it 
receives a claim from the third party. Thats due to the fact that all claims are logged as fault 
until liability  has been determined,  which  has an impact on the customers no claims bonus  
and premiums. 
So, in my view, Admiral should  have recorded the accident as notification  only when Mrs J 
first made contact in April 2018. I dont think Admiral should have recorded a claim until 
June 2018 at the earliest, which was after Mrs Js renewal date. Ive therefore thought 
carefully about how this has disadvantaged Mrs J. In particular, Ive considered whether it 
adversely affected  her premiums. 
What impact would  this have had on Mrs Js premiums?
Admiral has sent us information about  how it prices its policies, which it says shows that
Mrs Js premiums would have  been more expensive if the claim had been  recorded as 
notification only at the outset. So, it says Mrs J has benefitted from its error. But Im not 
persuaded from what Ive seen so far that Mrs J wasnt overcharged. 
It seems  unusual  that a consumer would see a higher premium increase at renewal for 
notifying an insurer of an accident compared  with making a fault claim. But I think its 
possible that this would  have been counteracted by Mrs Js no claims bonus if it hadnt been 
reduced prior to her renewal date. And if thats the case, then I think Mrs J has overpaid. 
So, I think Admiral needs to establish  what Mrs Js renewal premium  would have  been  if the 
accident had been recorded  as notification only and hadnt affected her no claims bonus. 
If Mrs Js premiums would  have  been lower than what shes  paid, Admiral will need  to refund 
the difference plus interest at a rate of 8% annual simple from the date each premium was 
paid to the date of settlement. If Mrs J is still insured with Admiral,  it will also need to repeat 
this exercise for each  subsequent renewal. If Mrs J has underpaid, I wouldnt  expect Admiral  
to take any further  action.  I also dont accept Admirals argument that it would have 
recalculated Mrs Js premiums when it received correspondence from P in June 2018.  I dont  
think it could reasonably have done so until the following renewal, by which time the claim 
had been closed as non-fault. 
Did Admiral handle Mrs Js claim fairly? 
The terms of Mrs Js policy, like all motor  insurance policies, give Admiral  the right to settle 
claims how it chooses. So contractually,  it was entitled to decide for itself whether it was 
prepared to pursue  a claim against  P. My role is to consider whether Admiral  properly 
weighed up the available  evidence in reaching that decision. It isnt to reach my own opinion 
on who was responsible for the accident. 
Ref: DRN12893413In this case, Admiral  considered both parties testimonies, images Mrs J took of both 
vehicles at the roadside, the layout of the junction and sections of the Highway Code relating 
to larger  vehicles. It also established there  were  no witnesses  or CCTV footage.  It concluded 
that it wouldnt have  a good  chance  of establishing  that the lorry driver was at fault as they 
could argue the lorry was the correctly  proceeding vehicle and required more road space. In 
addition, it noted  that Mrs Js car hit the lorry in a marked  blind  spot area. 
Admiral did say it would chase P to see if the lorry driver had any footage from their dash 
cam, but as far as I can tell it never  did. Having said that, I can see Mrs J had already 
requested the dash  cam footage and been told that there wasnt  any. It seems  likely Admiral 
would have got the same response. Admiral was also made aware of an inconsistency  in the 
lorry drivers statement but decided this wasnt  enough on its own to justify  pursuing a claim.  
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied Admirals decision took account of, and wasnt  
at odds with, the available evidence.  I therefore  think it followed the right approach in 
deciding Mrs J was at fault for the accident.  It also said that, if needed, it would settle the 
claim on a without prejudice basis. This means  Mrs J is free to pursue legal action against P 
if she chooses to, but she would  need  to fund this privately. Alternatively, she could 
approach the insurer of her motor legal protection cover if she hasnt already.
Mrs J decided she wasnt prepared to make  a claim for the damage  to her own car in light of 
Admirals decision.  And Admiral never  received a claim from P in the end either. So, as Ive 
mentioned, its now closed the claim,  re-categorised it as non-fault  (bonus allowed) and 
reinstated Mrs Js no claims bonus, which I think was the right thing to do. 
Overall customer  service
Mrs J faced a number  of customer service failings during Admirals handling of her claim. 
And, in considering these failings, I think its important to bear in mind  that Admiral  had 
already logged that Mrs J accepted responsibility  for an accident  without telling  her, and 
notified P of this, while she was trying to make  a claim against it. Admiral  accepts  that the 
claims handler who took Mrs Js call in July 2018  didnt handle  the situation  empathetically.  
And that a complaint handler then made things worse by contacting Mrs J without  listening to 
that call first, which meant she had to repeat all of her concerns. 
Admiral also accepts it should then have reallocated Mrs Js claim after she told the 
complaint handler  that she didnt want to hear from the original claims handler again. But this 
wasnt treated with urgency, which meant  that Mrs J was caused further upset when she 
received more correspondence from him. 
Mrs J later explored claiming for the damage to her own car. But when she spoke to one of 
Admirals suppliers to get an estimate,  the supplier had been given incorrect  information 
about her excess.  Admiral  had agreed to reduce the excess  following  a previous complaint 
and admits this wasnt noted  clearly  enough  on its systems.
Admiral then issued  a final response letter  which didnt address all of Mrs Js concerns.  It 
suggested Mrs Js premium had increased because shed added  a new driver  to her policy,  
which wasnt true. And internally, its recognised that its explanation of the relevant section of 
the Highway Code was incomplete. In the end, Admiral had to carry out further investigation 
and issue another  final response  letter. 
Ref: DRN12893414Admiral also misspelt Mrs Js name in one of its letters, and incorrectly addressed her as 
Miss on several occasions  throughout its handling of her claim and subsequent complaint, 
even after Mrs J had brought this to its attention twice. Whilst I accept that all of these errors 
wouldnt individually have caused  Mrs J significant  distress and inconvenience, when 
considered collectively I think they resulted in a particularly poor claim experience for Mrs J. 
Its unsurprising that by the time Admiral issued  its second final response  to Mrs Js 
complaint, she felt she couldnt  trust the information she was being given. Im not persuaded  
that £125 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mrs J was caused.  I intend  to 
direct Admiral to pay an additional £125, to bring the total award  of compensation to £250 for 
distress and inconvenience. I think this properly reflects the impact Admirals poor handling 
had on Mrs J overall. 
After bringing her complaint to our service, Mrs J also raised concerns that Admiral removed 
a car from her policy  by mistake and took an incorrect direct debit amount. I cant see 
Admiral has had an opportunity to investigate these points, so I cant  address them as part of 
this complaint. Mrs J can approach Admiral if shed still like these  issues  investigated. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs J was happy with what I proposed in my provisional decision but emphasised that shed 
also seen an increase at her 2019 renewal due to the way the accident was recorded. 
She also said her claims history showed  an amount of £125.
Admiral disagreed with my findings  but did what I asked and was able to demonstrate  that 
Mrs Js premiums would have  been more expensive if the accident had been recorded as 
notification only to start with and hadnt impacted her no claims bonus. It said this proved 
Mrs J had benefitted from the fact that it had recorded an open claim at the outset and hadnt 
recalculated her renewal  premium when it re-categorised the claim to non-fault.  It also sent 
us claims data to support  its assertion that drivers who have had a non-fault  claim pose a 
higher risk statistically than drivers who have had a fault claim, to justify  this pricing model.  
It did concede,  however,  that although  it had reinstated Mrs Js no claims bonus when it 
re-categorised the claim to non-fault, it hadnt  backdated this correctly, which  meant she was 
due a refund  of £29.71.  It also said it felt its original offer of compensation was fair. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I still think, in principle, that it was unfair  for Admiral to record an open claim before either 
party had given  any positive  indication that they were going to claim for their losses.  
And the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) has confirmed to us that insurers  have 
the option to create a record as notification  only and to leave  a policyholders  no claims 
bonus as allowed while it investigates an accident.  But Im persuaded from the evidence  that 
if Admiral had taken that approach here it would have made Mrs Js policy more expensive.  
Ref: DRN12893415Even if Admiral had recorded the accident as notification only to start with, I agree that it 
could have re-categorised  it to an open  claim when it heard from P in June 2018. And, while  
I appreciate this differs from my provisional  findings, I think it could fairly have recalculated 
the renewal premium at that point. In practice though, this would just have involved Admiral  
adjusting the premium down to the amount it quoted to Mrs J in May 2018 anyway. 
By the same token, wed expect an insurer to recalculate the renewal premium if an open 
claim is later settled  as non-fault and to refund  any overpaid premiums. But conversely, 
under Admirals pricing model, this would have led to Mrs J owing  Admiral  more premiums. 
So, I dont think shes lost out as a result  of Admiral not doing this when it re-categorised  the 
claim to non-fault  in September  2018.   
I appreciate it seems surprising that Admiral applies a higher premium  to a driver  whos  had 
a non-fault accident than to another driver whos had a fault accident.  But, the claims data 
Admiral has sent us does  support that the driver whos had a non-fault claim poses the 
higher risk statistically. It isnt our role to interfere  with an insurers attitude to risk, so long as 
it can demonstrate  that the additional  risk its charging for is genuine.  And ultimately, Admiral 
has charged Mrs J the lower of the two amounts between her 2018 and 2019 renewal dates.
Mrs J has mentioned she saw another premium increase at her 2019 renewal.  Each  renewal 
is effectively a new contract, and by the time Admiral calculated  Mrs Js renewal quote for 
2019 the claim had been  settled as non-fault. Given Admiral prices its policies to reflect its 
statistics that drivers  who have had a non-fault accident pose a higher risk, its likely this was 
one of the factors which contributed to the increase  shes  mentioned.
Admiral has explained  that the £125  figure that appeared in Mrs Js policy  documents was in 
reference to the compensation  it had paid to her for its handling of the claim. Its confirmed 
though that the record it has left on CUE makes clear it paid nothing towards Mrs Js claim.  
Furthermore, Im satisfied from the pricing information Ive seen that this amount  wasnt 
factored into the calculation of Mrs Js premiums.  
Admiral accepts it should have backdated Mrs Js no claims bonus  when  it was reinstated.  
And its calculated that if it were  to do that now, Mrs J would be due a refund of £29.71. 
Admiral may argue theres  no net loss to Mrs J given that this amount is less than she saved 
by virtue of it not recalculating her premium in September 2018. But I think  it still needs to 
administer Mrs Js no claims bonus  fairly, regardless of the quirks of its pricing model. So, I 
think it would  be fair for Admiral to treat these issues separately and refund £29.71 to Mrs J 
as part of the settlement of her complaint.
Admiral didnt present  any new arguments  in relation to the compensation figure, other than 
to say it was satisfied the £125 it had already offered was fair. I see no reason to depart from 
the findings set out on this in my provisional  decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Admiral to pay Mrs J an additional  £125  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, in addition to the £125  it has already agreed  to pay, and to 
refund Mrs J the £29.71 due from backdating  her no claims bonus. Admiral should add 
interest to the refund at a rate of 8% annual simple from the date the claim was closed as 
non-fault to the date it pays the settlement.   
Ref: DRN12893416Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Mike Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289341