K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about a quote she received from Aviva Insurance Limited in relation to her 
multicar motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs A had a multicar  policy  with Aviva. In September 2018,  she phoned Aviva and asked for 
a quote in relation to changing one of the family  cars. She also wanted to know  the annual 
cost of insuring a car she wanted to buy, so she asked for a new quote. The new car she 
wanted to buy was to be driven by her husband,  Mr A, Mrs A and their two sons,  who were 
then 21 and 18 years  old. Aviva quoted a premium of £4,411  for the new car. Mrs A asked 
for a quote without  cover for her then 18 year old son. Aviva  quoted  £1,156.
Mrs A wasnt  happy with those quotes and contacted a broker. She says that the broker  
provided a quote  from Aviva for £2,165 for Mr and Mrs A and both sons and £571 for
Mr and Mrs A and their older son. Mr and Mrs A took out a new policy  with Aviva,  via the 
broker, which provided cover for her, her husband  and her elder  son and paid £531. 
Mrs A says that the difference in the quotes  for directly comparable cover  with the same 
insurer is unbelievable  and unacceptable.  She says that this matter  requires investigation.  
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that shed asked Aviva to 
send its calculations to show how it had arrived at the quotes, but it doesnt keep the 
breakdown of the quotes if the policy isnt taken up. The investigator said that Aviva  had 
provided some information and explained  that the policies it offers  via brokers are different 
from its direct policies  in relation to policy terms, levels of cover  and pricing  structures. She 
said that brokers might provide discounts  that are not available directly from the insurer.  So, 
the investigator wasnt able to say that the difference in the quotes was unfair.  She also said 
that Mrs A hadnt been disadvantaged,  as she hadnt accepted the higher quote  from Aviva.
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. She accepted that she hadnt lost out financially but 
said that she made the complaint because  the difference between the two quotes  was so 
excessive and she doesnt feel that the difference has been  explained or justified. 
The investigator didnt  change her view, so Mrs A asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs A has very strong feelings about this matter. 
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct Aviva generally about how it conducts its 
business or calculates its premiums. But I can look at whether its treated Mrs A unfairly. Im 
not in a position to conclude that it did here, and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN11011062Usually, in cases like this, we ask the insurer to show us how it calculated the premium, so 
that we can see whether  it acted fairly.  Aviva  has traced the phone call in which Mrs A 
received the quotes shes concerned about,  but it no longer has the quotes on its system, 
and it says that it doesnt have the relevant underwriting  criteria.  So, it cant  show me how it 
calculated those quotes. As the investigator  said, its not unusual for insurers  to discard 
quotes when the policy isnt taken  up. I appreciate thats unsatisfactory from Mrs As point of 
view, but it means  that I cant look at why the quotes  direct  from Aviva were so much higher 
than the quotes from the broker.
In general, terms, I can say that its not unusual for insurers to have different prices  for 
different selling channels. Aviva  says that the policies it makes  available  via brokers arent 
available from it directly.  In addition, brokers may offer discounts that arent  available  directly 
from the insurer. But I havent seen evidence that these are the reasons for the substantial 
differences in the quotes here. 
I do appreciate that I havent found  the underlying reason why the two sets of quotes were  
so different,  but Im not able to do that in this case,  as the relevant information isnt available.
As Mrs A says,  she didnt  suffer any financial loss, as she didnt take out the more  expensive 
policy with Aviva. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs A but, for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable  to uphold  her 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1101106