K820x#14complaint
Mrs R and Mr C complain about  the service they received after fraudsters were able to 
access their account.
background
In May 2018, Mr Cs card and PIN to his account were compromised and as a result,  
fraudster were able to make over £10,000 worth  of transactions.  Halifax  investigated  their 
complaint and decided that Mr C had been the victim of fraud  and in July 2018, the 
payments were reimbursed.
Mrs R and Mr C then complained about how fraudsters were  able to access their money.   
The received  a final response from Halifax  in July 2018 in which  Halifax addressed  their 
concerns one by one.  It offered £300  compensation for the poor service they had received 
and the time they had had to spend in resolving  these issues.
The complaint was then brought to this service.  Mrs R and Mr C said that Halifax  had not 
adequately addressed their concerns about  security breaches and that they wanted  to be 
compensated for the loss of time,  pay and stress  involved  due to Halifaxs inefficiency.  They 
did not quantify the level of compensation sought.
Our investigator thought that Halifax had been  fair in its response to the complaint.  She 
explained to Mrs R and Mr C that she accepted they had been inconvenienced  but that it 
was not for this service to determine the fraud measures Halifax  should  have in place to 
detect fraud.   This just wasnt our jurisdiction.
She also explained that the fraudster were  able to order a new card and PIN via telephone 
banking  which meant they knew  enough details to pass through security.  They  were  then 
able to intercept  the post when these items  arrived.  So, Halifax had not been alerted when 
these items  were subsequently  used to make  transactions.
But Mrs R and Mr C were not happy with the investigators response.   They  asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that bringing this complaint has been a stressful experience for Mrs R and Mr C  
and thats perfectly  understandable.  After all, they were victims of fraud and had a 
considerable amount of money taken from them.  However, I am pleased  to see that the 
money was returned  to them within a relatively short period  of time.
But I need to make it clear  that it is not this services role to punish Halifax for what  
happened here  but to look at how it has dealt with Mrs R and Mr Cs complaint and 
whether it could have  done anything more.
I think the service received from Halifax fell below what we expect from banks. And I remind  
myself that the trigger to this complaint was that it had allowed a fraudster to order a new 
card and PIN in Mr Cs name.
Ref: DRN12645842In addition to this, Mrs R and Mr C had to speak to a number of advisers,  the fraud 
investigation was not completed within the promised timescale (although as I have already 
said, still within a relatively short time), there  werent as many  updates  as they would  have 
liked and a branch  appointment had to be changed.  
I have no doubt  that they were inconvenienced and worried about the money  which they had 
lost  but as I have  said, its not my job to punish Halifax  or to determine how fraudsters 
were able to access as much information as they had.
I have considered the impact these issues have had on Mrs R and Mr C  and the period of 
time it took for Halifax to resolve  matters  and I have concluded that the offer of £300  is an 
offer which I will not be increasing  upon.   I think this fairly compensates them for the distress 
and inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1264584