K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined her 
home insurance claim after landslips prevented her family from living  in their home.
background
Between February and June 2017 there  were  several landslips behind Miss Hs property. In 
August 2017,  due to the perceived risk, the local authority issued an Emergency Prohibition  
Order (EPO) which  prevented Miss H and her four children from occupying their home.  
Other properties and residents were  also affected.
Miss H made a claim  on her home  insurance  policy for assistance.  RSA offered to cover  two 
weeks alternative accommodation and it appointed loss adjusters who attended  the site the 
following day. However, the loss adjusters declined the claim on the basis the landslips 
hadnt damaged  Miss Hs property, and the accommodation offer was withdrawn.
Miss H brought  a complaint  to this service about the living  arrangements of her family, which  
one of our investigators  upheld. Miss Hs policy covers alternative accommodation when the 
property becomes uninhabitable  due to a landslip; and theres no requirement  for damage to 
the property for this part of the cover. RSA agreed to compensate Miss H £750 for the upset 
caused by its decision  to not help her family with their alternative accommodation. The local 
authority had since moved Miss Hs family to a three-bedroom house, so RSAs  assistance 
was no longer required for their living arrangements.
In November 2017, RSA was contacted by a consultant that had been appointed by the 
Environmental Health Department to assist in assessing the future risk to the properties  
affected by the landslips,  and to support the residents. Ill refer to him as Mr B. 
Mr B informed RSA that Miss H was seeking  to appeal the EPO on the grounds  her property 
wasnt at risk. Mr B explained  that prior to the appeal it would be beneficial  to prepare a joint 
report with RSA, outlining  the areas of agreement and disagreement regarding the structural 
damage being caused to Miss Hs property. He suggested site investigations at the rear of 
the property, as these  hadnt taken place yet. He also asked if the loss of foul drainage 
constituted damage  to the building, and he highlighted the landslip  must be adversely 
affecting the propertys value.
RSA agreed to undertake site investigations.  But these determined  there  wasnt any damage 
being caused to the main property, so in January 2018, the loss adjusters maintained the 
previous claim decision. However, RSA noted  the houses may be condemned due to the 
perceived future risk, and demolished; and if so, it would reconsider its position.  RSA 
confirmed it would await the outcome of Miss Hs appeal against the EPO.
In June 2018, Miss H notified RSAs loss adjusters that her appeal  had been dismissed. In 
November 2018,  the loss adjusters told Mr B that RSA would now be dealing with the claim. 
Mr B advised the loss adjusters the local authority hadnt offered a contribution towards the 
loss, and the insurers of the other  affected  properties had settled on a loss of market  value  
basis. In the following weeks, further discussions took place at RSA about  the next steps. 
In December 2018, the loss adjusters maintained  its earlier decision to decline the claim on 
the basis there was no damage being  caused  to the main property by the landslip. However, 
it asked to be kept updated  about  the local authoritys response regarding  its liability. 
Ref: DRN10514632In January 2019, Mr B made a complaint to RSA on Miss Hs behalf, but RSA maintained it 
had handled  the claim correctly in view of there  being no damage to the property or garden.  
RSA said it would reassess its position should the local authority take steps which  leads to 
damage.
Miss H referred the matter to us, but in August 2019 one of our investigators  concluded  RSA 
hadnt done anything wrong.  Because Miss H disagreed, her complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide. 
In October  2019, Miss H let us know that the local authority  had since observed damage to 
her property. She said in August 2019, a further claim was therefore made, but RSA hadnt 
acted on it. In December  2019, Miss H updated  us that RSAs assessor had now reported 
the claim should be accepted, but she said the matter still wasnt  progressing. 
In February 2020,  Miss H wrote to us again.  She set out new complaint points that related  to 
events since damage was observed in August 2019. We have since  passed  her letter  to 
RSA and asked  it to respond  to these new points under  a separate complaint.
RSA has recently confirmed its in the process  of responding to Miss Hs latest complaint 
and considering its claim settlement offer on a total loss basis, in addition to covering the 
other costs  Miss H may incur.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Im only considering events between  Miss Hs previous complaint (where  we awarded £750) 
and RSAs decision in December 2018 to decline  her claim. Miss Hs claim has moved on 
considerably since  our investigator  considered  these  matters;  and RSA is now settling the 
claim and considering her complaint about events after August 2019, when damage was 
found. If Miss H is unhappy with RSAs claim settlement offer,  or with its response to her 
further complaint,  she can return to us and we will consider the issues  under  a separate 
case.
The situation  has clearly  been very distressing for Miss H. I dont doubt the impact on her in 
terms of her family  being  out of their home  and living with the uncertainty  of whether they 
would be able to return or be compensated should they not be able to do so. 
However, to uphold Miss Hs complaint, I would need to be persuaded RSA did something  
wrong which had an impact on her. But having thought  about  matters carefully, Im not 
persuaded I can reasonably uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant  policy term states: The buildings are insured against loss or physical damage 
by the following causes:  landslip
Ref: DRN10514633Prior to late-2019,  RSA had relied on there  being  no physical damage.  Having reviewed the 
available information,  including the tribunals  findings, Im not persuaded there  was physical  
damage to Miss Hs property at the time the claim was declined. Indeed, Miss H challenged  
the EPO on the grounds her property wasnt at risk. There was the question  of damage to 
the drains which was impacting the services to Miss Hs property. But having queried  this 
matter with RSA, and reviewed the tribunals findings, I understand the damage  was to a 
part of the drainage that Miss H wasnt legally  responsible for. So, Im not persuaded the 
drainage issue  constituted  physical  damage to her home. 
The policy covers loss or physical damage in the event of a landslip. So, even if there wasnt  
any physical damage  to the property at the time the claim was declined, there was still the 
question of loss. Therefore,  Ive considered whether  RSA ought reasonably  to have 
accepted the claim based on their being  a loss.
On the one hand, the tribunal determined there were hazards that posed  an imminent risk to 
the property. The tribunals decision,  which was based on expert opinion, pointed  towards  
damage to Miss Hs home  being  inevitable. But on the other  hand,  those  risks hadnt  yet 
materialised; and importantly, a Demolition Order hadnt yet been issued, and whilst the 
tribunal had upheld the EPO, it remained silent on the next steps. As such, it remained 
possible the local authority would take steps to mitigate the imminent risks, and Miss H 
would be able to safely return  home  without a loss being suffered. 
Ive already noted to RSA that, given the tribunals  findings in respect of the imminent risk to 
Miss Hs property and her ongoing  difficult circumstances, it could have perhaps taken a 
more pragmatic approach by accepting there  was a loss. Equally,  Ive not seen attempts  
were made by RSA to liaise  with the local authority after the tribunal dismissed  Miss Hs 
appeal, to understand the local authoritys next steps in respect of preventing further  
landslips (and mitigating  the imminent risk) or simply demolishing her home. 
However, whilst  in my view, theres a question here about whether RSA could have done 
more to support  Miss H, Im not persuaded thats enough for me to uphold  her complaint. 
The crux of the issue is whether a loss had been  suffered  at the time RSA declined the 
claim, and in the absence of a Demolition  Order, or information which showed one was 
going to be issued, on balance, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably  decide  RSAs 
decision to decline the claim was unfair.
I will now go on to address the other issues that were either  raised when the complaint was 
made to RSA or when it was referred  to this service.
In June 2018, Miss H informed RSAs loss adjusters her appeal  against the EPO had been 
dismissed. However, her claim  wasnt declined for a further six months. Ive also seen  that 
the loss adjusters indicated to Mr B that RSA would be accepting  the claim before it was 
then declined. However, overall,  I accept the circumstances of the claim were  somewhat 
unusual, and Ive seen RSA was giving  matters consideration.  The delay to RSAs  claim 
decision also didnt have  a wider impact. Even  if RSAs decision had been made sooner, 
Miss H would still have been in the same position  of waiting for physical damage,  or for 
action from her local authority in respect of mitigating the imminent risk or issuing a 
Demolition Order.
Ref: DRN10514634When Miss H referred her complaint to us, she noted she was still paying her mortgage  and 
for home insurance. However, in terms of her mortgage, the local authority was covering her 
alternative accommodation costs, so she wasnt  paying her mortgage  and rent. Miss H also 
explained her mortgage had increased  and she couldnt obtain a more preferential  rate due 
to the ongoing uncertainty  about  whether she would be able to return  home or if it would be 
demolished. However,  RSA wasnt responsible  for the local authoritys decision making or 
the mortgage rates offered to her, and nor does her policy  cover  such loss. In terms of her 
home insurance premiums, she still owned the property and RSA was providing  cover,  so       
I cant reasonably decide  she shouldnt have  been  subject to these costs.
When Mr B raised the complaint to RSA on Miss Hs behalf, he noted that an endorsement 
had been applied to her policy at renewal, excluding landslip. This point wasnt  specifically 
raised by Miss H when  she referred her complaint to us, and nor have I seen the renewal 
documents. However, Ive queried with RSA whether such restriction of cover was fair or 
reasonable given the landslip issues arose  whilst RSA was on cover  and the issues  were 
known to be ongoing  and if a further landslip was to occur,  its questionable  whether it 
could be separated from those landslips that had previously occurred, given the related 
issues. RSA hasnt responded to my questions here. However, given the claim has now 
been accepted, and the endorsement  hasnt  had an impact on Miss Hs claim, I dont 
consider it necessary to explore this point further.  
I acknowledge the last three years have been a very difficult  time for Miss H, and in terms of 
the period Im considering  here,  I accept there are things that RSA could have perhaps done 
differently. However,  for the reasons  Ive outlined, Im not persuaded I can reasonably  
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss H. But for the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1051463