K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the interest rate The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB)  have 
charged on their mortgage.  Theyre unhappy  that the standard  variable  rate (SVR) didnt go 
down when there was a fall in the Bank  of England base rate in 2016. Theyre  also unhappy 
that TMB didnt tell them they were a closed  book lender and so couldnt offer any other 
interest rates.
background
In 2006, Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with TMB. Mr Ps late father  was also a party to 
the mortgage at the time, but hes since passed  away. The mortgage  was initially on a fixed  
rate of 4.89% until June 2008.  The mortgage  offer shows that after 31 May 2008  the 
mortgage would move onto TMBs  SVR, which was 6.74% at the time Mr and Mrs P took out 
the mortgage.
In June 2008, Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage moved onto the SVR,  which  was 7.44% at the time. 
Since then,  the SVR has changed in the following ways:
November 2008:  decreased to 6.94%
December 2008:  decreased to 5.44%
January 2009:  decreased to 4.84%
November 2011:  increased to 4.95%
September 2018: increased to 5.2%
In 2016, Mr and Mrs P complained to TMB,  as the SVR hadnt fallen following the reduction 
in the Bank  of England  base rate. TMB explained that the SVR is not a tracker rate, and so 
they dont have to raise  or lower  it in line with the Bank of England  base rate. However, they 
did admit  they could have given  Mr and Mrs P more information about their interest rate 
options when  they complained. They explained that they dont offer any new interest  rate 
products themselves, but they can re-mortgage  away from them  to another  lender without 
penalty. Or they could  go through  a specialist re-mortgage process with Bank of Scotland  at 
no cost to them. TMB offered Mr and Mrs P £100 to compensate for the fact they could have 
been clearer, and to pay towards  telephone  costs incurred.
Mr and Mrs P declined  the offer and brought their complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into things,  and explained  that he didnt think TMB had charged their interest rate 
unfairly. He also felt TMB had explained  that they had become a closed book lender in 2008,  
and that the annual mortgage statements were clear about the rate of interest  TMB were  
charging on the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  that they agreed to when 
they took it out. These explain that the lender may vary the standard  variable rate, and they 
give a list of reasons  for why the rate may be varied.  Theres nothing  in the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  that suggest  a change in the Bank of England base 
rate would, or should, result  in a change to the SVR that TMB  charge.
Ref: DRN18558762Theres also no indication on any of the other mortgage paperwork that the SVR would track 
the base rate. The terms of the mortgage  explain that the interest  rate applicable is variable, 
and the bank set this rate. So whilst  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs P feel the interest  rate theyve 
paid has been  too high in comparison  to the Bank of England  base rate, Im satisfied TMB  
have charged interest in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage,  and were entitled to 
do so. 
Shortly after Mr and Mrs Ps fixed rate ended, TMB stopped offering other interest rate products 
to their customers. I understand that because of this, Mr and Mrs P feel like theyve been 
disadvantaged. But whilst they were paying the SVR, there were no Early Repayment Charges 
(ERC) payable if they wanted to redeem their mortgage and go elsewhere if they were able to 
find a more preferable rate with another lender. I understand theyve looked into this recently 
and have found it difficult given the remaining term of the mortgage, but I cant say this was as a 
result of anything TMB had done. So Im satisfied there were no contractual barriers 
preventing Mr and Mrs P from redeeming their mortgage early if they wanted to. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said they werent aware TMB  had stopped  offering products, and they 
would have tried to re-mortgage earlier if theyd  have known. When TMB stopped offering 
products in 2008, they wrote to all their customers to let them  know  about this. Ive seen a 
copy of this letter, and the leaflet that was sent with it, and Im satisfied it clearly explains 
what their mortgage customers needed  to do if they wanted to discuss  their options.  Ive also 
seen copies of Mr and Mrs Ps annual mortgage statements. These show the interest rate 
that TMB were  charging on the mortgage,  and its clear this was a variable rate. 
Looking at the contact notes, I can see that Mr P called TMB in 2009 to ask about a new 
rate. The notes show that TMB told him they no longer offered any new interest rates.  So 
considering all of this, Im satisfied TMB did enough  to make Mr and Mrs P aware that they 
had stopped offering new interest rate products, and of the interest rate they were  charging 
on their mortgage. I appreciate Mr P says he spoke to TMB  about  the interest rate on several 
occasions, and they didnt  give him the right information. But looking at the contact  notes Im 
satisfied TMB did enough to let him know where he stood  in terms of the interest rate he was 
paying.
TMB have said they could  have  been clearer with Mr and Mrs P about their options when 
they complained  in 2016. Having considered this, I think  the offer theyve made  of £100 to 
compensate for this is fair. It seems  that Mr and Mrs P had looked into re-mortgaging  but 
had found this difficult. So Im not persuaded knowing  they could have done this one month 
earlier when  they initially called would have made a material difference.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the interest  rate theyve been 
paying on their mortgage,  Im not satisfied this was because TMB were charging their 
interest rate unfairly.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1855876