K820x#14complaint
Ms R has complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold  her a Privilege 
packaged bank  account in 2002.  She paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Ms Rs account was opened as a fee-free account in February 2000. It was upgraded to a 
paid-for Privilege account in March 2002, and reverted back to a fee-free account in 
November 2015.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Co-op mis-sold the Privilege account to Ms R and 
didnt recommend that Co-op should  pay her any compensation. Ms R didnt agree so she 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Ms Rs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Ms Rs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the packaged bank account was 
mis-sold to her. Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms R was given a fair choice when  she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Ms Rs main  complaint point is around  whether she was in fact, given a fair choice when she 
upgraded her account. I note that she says she was coerced into agreeing  to it after paying 
off a loan, when she asked Co-op  if she could have an overdraft. She explains that Co-op  
wouldnt agree  to any further  lending, but she says it told her the Privilege account  came 
with a £100 agreed overdraft, so she accepted it.
I should start by saying  that Ms R had held a fee-free account  for over two years  at the time 
she upgraded to her paid-for account.  So its not in question as to whether she knew fee-free 
accounts existed,  or were  available to her, because she clearly knew that.
But Ive also looked  at Ms Rs relationship with Co-op as a whole, to establish the 
circumstances surrounding  her account  being  upgraded.
I can see that Ms R did indeed have a loan with Co-op. But it looks as though that loan was 
repaid in May 2003; so she didnt  repay  it just before, or at the time she upgraded her 
account.
Ref: DRN16164052I can also see that Ms R had previously had a £1000 agreed  overdraft limit, which was in 
place from December 2000. The evidence Ive seen suggests that this was changed to a 
£180 limit in November 2002 and £100 in March 2004.
So having  considered everything, Im not persuaded that Ms R only agreed  to upgrade her 
account on the promise of obtaining further lending facilities. It doesnt look as though the 
account sale happened at the time she repaid her loan, and it also looks  as though she 
already had an overdraft limit in place. So whilst I accept that what Ms R has told me is her 
honest recollection, I think its possible that she might not remember exactly why she 
upgraded or what  happened at the time.  But thats  understandable, given that it happened 
over 17 years ago.
I dont think that Co-op personally recommended the Privilege account  to Ms R. So it didnt 
have to check if the account was suitable  for her
But Co-op still had to give Ms R enough  clear information about the packaged account for 
her to decide if she wanted  it. 
Given the time that has passed, its hard to know exactly what  was discussed at the time 
Ms R upgraded. But Ive noted that one of the Privilege  accounts main benefits relates to 
the overdraft  and given  what  Ms R has said through  her complaint, I think this benefit 
couldve appealed  to her.
In 2002 Co-op  charged its customers a £15 annual  overdraft  arrangement  fee, plus a 
monthly usage fee of £8 in any month that they used their arranged overdraft. In return  for 
the £6 Privilege  account fee, the annual arrangement fee and monthly  usage fees were  
waived, and account holders received the first £100 of their overdraft interest-free. So for 
customers regularly using  their overdraft, this benefit alone wouldve likely  saved them  
money.
I havent seen  all of Ms Rs bank statements, but Ive seen  a selection that she has provided. 
It looks as though she used her overdraft regularly, and I also note that she says she wasnt  
able to pay it off. So I think that she couldve found  the overdraft benefit  of the Privilege 
account appealing  and I think thats  probably the reason she upgraded  even  if she 
doesnt now remember that.
The account  included  several other benefits, which I note Ms R doesnt appear  to have 
made much use of. But I do think its likely Co-op  told her about the Privilege accounts main  
benefits, both at the time it was sold and in the welcome letter that Ive seen it sent her 
shortly after the upgrade.  She may not have  wanted or gone on to use all of those benefits, 
but that doesnt automatically mean the account  was mis-sold.
I fully appreciate that its possible  Co-op  didnt tell Ms R everything it should have about the 
Privilege account.  But because I think its more likely than not that she chose to upgrade for 
at least some of its benefits, I havent seen enough  to make me think that Ms R wouldnt still 
have taken it  even if Co-op  had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Ms R that Ive looked at all the information I have about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything shes said. But having  done so I dont think  
Co-op mis-sold the Privilege packaged  account  to her. So I dont think it owes  her any 
money.
Ref: DRN16164053my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms R but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1616405