K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Target Servicing Limited took too long to deal with her application to 
remove her ex-partner from a Help to Buy loan account. She says this led to her mortgage 
offer expiring  and that she incurred additional legal costs.
background
Miss C had a joint mortgage and a Help to Buy loan account with her now ex-partner, who Ill 
call Mr S. They wanted to remove Mr S from both.
On 23 November 2017 Miss C contacted Target (as it administers the Help to Buy account)  
and it sent her an email  about the process  and said there would be a £50 administration  fee. 
Miss C says she was confused by the email  as it didnt enclose  the solicitors  form she had 
been told she needed to complete.
Nothing further happened until Miss C contacted  Target again on 3 January 2018.  When she 
said she hadnt received the solicitors form a copy was sent.  Miss C paid the £50 fee the 
same day, and returned the completed solicitors form on 10 January.
The payment of the fee and the completed  solicitors  form didnt automatically tally up so 
Target didnt send the legal pack out to Miss Cs appointed solicitor until she phoned to 
chase it on 24 January.
Unfortunately there followed  some  problems with locating Miss Cs account as it hadnt 
migrated over correctly from the previous administrator. This took until early March  to 
resolve.
Miss Cs solicitor was unsure of the process  they needed to follow to complete the removal  
of Mr S from the account and wrote various letters to Target to try to resolve matters.
Target phoned Miss Cs solicitor on 14 May to explain  what was needed, and Mr S was 
removed from the account  on 31 May 2018.
Miss C complained about the delays, but then also complained that Mr S had been  removed 
too soon from the Help to Buy account  as the mortgage transfer of equity ended up not 
completing until October 2018  due to delays with the mortgage lender. She said this meant 
Mr S was unable to talk to Target  between June  and October  as he was no longer named on 
the Help to Buy account.
Target apologised for its failings  and offered £100 compensation. It increased that 
compensation sum to £250 when  it reviewed the complaint  upon  the referral  to this service,  
and also said it would  refund the £50 administration fee.
Our investigator said he couldnt  consider  a complaint about  Mr S being  unable to speak to 
Target as that was Mr S complaint to make (if he wished), not Miss Cs complaint. He also 
said he couldnt consider anything that had happened after Target issued its final response  
letter as any new issues would need  to be raised with Target  first to allow it to investigate.
In respect of the complaint  he said we could look at he thought some delays were the fault of 
Target and recommended  the compensation be increased to £300. In addition he felt Target 
should refund £192 of additional legal  costs Miss C incurred.
Ref: DRN17205472Target agreed to the £192 refund, but felt its existing offer of £250  compensation on top of 
that was fair. As an agreement couldnt  be reached  its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Miss C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file but Ill keep 
my comments to what I think  is relevant.  If I dont comment on any specific  point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.
When looking at the delays, Ive not taken into account the time between  23 November 2017 
and 10 January 2018. This is because whilst Miss C says Target  didnt attach the form she 
needed to the email  on 23 November, Miss C didnt let Target know  that (and ask for a copy  
of the form)  until 3 January 2018. Target cant put right something  it doesnt know about,  so I 
dont hold Target liable for that six-week  delay. The earliest point Target  was in a position to 
start work was 10 January  when  it had received the form and administration fee.
Target admitted  the delay from 10 January to 24 January was its fault as the solicitors  pack  
should have been sent out once it received the form and fee from Miss C. It said the fee and 
form didnt automatically  tally up which would be the trigger  for the pack  to be issued.  Once 
Miss C notified Target of the problem it sent the solicitors pack  out the same day.
Then came a significant delay as Target  was unable to locate Miss Cs account; it says this 
was because the account didnt migrate onto its systems correctly  when it took over the 
servicing of the account. I agree with our investigator that compensation is due for this delay, 
but I must  equally keep  in mind that sometimes things are outside of a business control and 
just take time to be resolved.
Miss Cs solicitor charged her for writing  to Target  as they didnt understand the process they 
needed to follow to complete the removal of Mr S from the account.  This was resolved when 
Target phoned the solicitor to explain what it needed. I agree with our investigator that 
Miss Cs solicitor could have phoned  Target  to query these  matters  which  would likely have 
led to things being resolved much sooner.
The solicitor  has sent us an itemised  invoice of the just over £9,000 they say Miss Cs bill 
came to, with this noted to have taken just under  40 hours  of work. I understand the original 
quote was for £1,200, and the solicitor agreed  to reduce the bill to £4,800; they said this was 
the original £1,200 quoted, plus £1,800 directly attributable to the delay by Target and 
£1,800 directly attributable to the delay by the mortgage lender. 
Having considered everything  Im satisfied the extra £1,800 cant all be attributed  to the 
delays by Target. Its impossible to say what the exact figure  is as theres  a lot of cross-over  
between what would  always  need  to be done and the extra work caused by the delay. On 
balance Im satisfied the figure of £192 put forward by our investigator is about  right for the 
extra costs  that were directly attributable to Target. Id normally like to be more precise than 
about right but in this case its simply not possible based on the records  provided.
Ref: DRN17205473Target completed its part of the process  in May 2018 when it removed Mr S from the 
account. It took just over double the time it should  have taken (with the start point being 
when Miss C paid the fee and returned the paperwork in January 2018).  Whilst I 
acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes mistakes, mistakes do happen.  
Transferring ownership  of a house due to a relationship breakdown is going to be a stressful  
time and its understandable to want it to go as smoothly as possible. Target has accepted  it 
let Miss C down here and has apologised for that. Its also said it will refund the £50 
administration fee that was charged.
Its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
business actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made  in 
other similar cases. Having done  so Im satisfied that the £300 compensation recommended 
by our investigator is fair in all the circumstances. 
I understand there was some confusion over whether £100 had already been  paid as Target 
had sent a cheque for that amount to Miss C. Its been confirmed the cheque  hasnt been 
cashed so Im satisfied  no sums have already been  paid.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, and order Target Servicing Limited to pay Miss C:
£192 in recognition of her increased legal costs,
£50 refund of the administration fee, and
£300 for the trouble  and upset caused.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means Ill not 
be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion  of the merits of it. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject  my 
decision before  8 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1720547