K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that he didnt sign a loan agreement with Clydesdale  Financial  Services  
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance, and didnt agree that a kitchen would be 
provided to him on credit. And hes complained about some issues with the kitchen. Hes 
being helped  with his complaint by his wife.
background
Mr J and his wife went to a kitchen supplier in May 2015 and agreed for a new kitchen to be 
supplied and fitted at their home.  They say that the cost of the kitchen was £20,774.61  but 
the sale price to them was £10,391.49  and that they paid a deposit  of £987.10 using a 
credit card. And they say that they paid a further £1,000 to reduce the outstanding amount in 
August 2015.
The kitchen was installed but they had lots of problems with it and theyre still dealing with 
the kitchen supplier about those issues. They say that they received a letter from Barclays 
Partner Finance  about a fixed sum loan agreement in June 2017  and that was the first that 
theyd heard about a loan agreement with Barclays Partner  Finance.  Mr J complained to 
Barclays Partner Finance  and said that he hadnt signed a credit agreement  or agreed that 
the kitchen would be supplied to him on credit. Barclays  Partner  Finance contacted the 
kitchen supplier about the issues  with the kitchen. But it says that Mr J told it that he didnt 
want any further remedial  work completed by the kitchen supplier so it said that it was 
closing the claim that had been made under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
But it did say that it was crediting £50 compensation to Mr Js bank account  because of the 
distress and inconvenience that hed been  caused.  Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays  
Partner Finances  response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didn't think  it 
wouldve been reasonable to expect the sale of a kitchen without signed  documentation 
confirming how the purchase would be made. And he said that theres a loan agreement with 
Mr Js signature  on it and he didn't have  enough  to say that the signature wasn't valid.
Mr J has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that hes tried to resolve this matter with the kitchen supplier but has been  unsuccessful.  So 
hes made a section 75 claim to Barclays Partner  Finance but its declined  the claim  so hes 
now appealing to this service about that decision. Hes provided a report  from a kitchen 
installation specialist about the issues with the kitchen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says that he didnt  agree to the kitchen  being  supplied to him on credit and that he 
didnt sign a loan agreement. But there doesnt seem to be any dispute that he and his wife 
agreed with the kitchen  supplier that a kitchen would be supplied  to them and fitted  and that 
they would  pay £10,391.49  for the kitchen. They paid a deposit  of £987.10 for the kitchen  
and then made a further payment of £1,000 in August 2015 but theyve provided no other  
evidence to show the arrangement that theyd made  with the kitchen supplier to pay for the 
kitchen. And I dont consider it to be likely that the kitchen supplier wouldve agreed to supply 
and fit the kitchen unless payment arrangements had been agreed.
Ref: DRN13105382Barclays Partner Finance  has provided a copy of a fixed sum loan agreement  which  has 
Mr Js signature  on it and which is dated in August 2015. It has also provided a copy  of an 
introductory letter that it says was sent to Mr J and with which the agreement was enclosed.  
Mr J says that his signature  mustve  been added to the agreement. But I consider it to be 
more likely than not that he signed  the agreement in August 2015  and agreed  to the kitchen 
being supplied  to him on credit.
The agreement sets out the cost of the kitchen which was £10,391.49 - from which the 
deposit and payment of £1,000 has been deducted. And it says that Mr J was to make 60 
monthly payments  of £253.60 with the first payment being due twelve months  after the date 
that Barclays Partner Finance made payment  to the kitchen supplier. Barclays Partner 
Finance says that the kitchen was delivered  in September  2015  and Mr Js account was 
activated in July 2016 so the first payment  became  due in July 2017. It says that it didnt 
receive a signed  satisfaction notice before the account was activated as there  was no 
requirement for one. It says that the loan terms and conditions state:  After we have  
accepted and signed this agreement and you have received the goods or services, we will 
pay the loan amount to the retailer.
But it says that as a gesture of goodwill it extended  the buy now  pay later period until 
January 2018.  That was more than 13 months  after Mr Js direct debit had been set up and, 
as it hadnt been used  within that time, his bank cancelled the direct debit. And Barclays 
Partner Finance  says that no repayments  have been received from Mr J so its recorded 
adverse information  on his credit file. 
As I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr J did sign the loan agreement  and that he 
did agree  to the kitchen being supplied to him on credit, I consider that hes liable for the 
payments due under the agreement. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to 
show that Barclays Partner Finance has acted incorrectly  in connection with the agreement.
Mr J and his wife have  complained about some issues with the kitchen. The kitchen supplier 
arranged for the kitchen  to be inspected by a field installation manager and a report was 
produced which identified a number of issues with the kitchen. Barclays Partner Finance 
says that the kitchen  supplier offered to replace some of the items but that required some  
further some  works to put things right.  And it says that Mr J declined  those works  due to the 
upheaval that would be caused and that he asked  for an offer to keep the kitchen as it was.
The kitchen supplier  offered to refund  £767.93  to Mr J for the issues  with the kitchen and 
Barclays Partner Finance  says that Mr J told it that he was negotiating the compensation 
with the kitchen supplier  and that the kitchen supplier had said that the complaint would be 
referred to the furniture  ombudsman. And it says that Mr J wanted  to deal with those issues  
through the kitchen supplier and that he was happy  for Barclays  Partner Finance to close his 
section 75 claim. So it did so and it said in its final response letter  in October 2017 that it had 
closed his section  75 claim  as it was unable to keep a claim open  for compensation disputes 
and that:   if you change your mind and would like us to assist you with this matter  please 
do not hesitate to contact  us. And it said that it was crediting £50 compensation to Mr Js 
bank account  because of the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused.
Mr J and his wife arranged for the kitchen to be inspected by a kitchen installation  specialist. 
And the specialists report  dated  in December 2018  identifies  a number of issues  with the 
kitchen. But Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show that Mr J provided that 
report to Barclays Partner  Finance or that hes asked it to re-open his section 75 claim.
Ref: DRN13105383In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Js complaint about  Barclays 
Partner Finance,  I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the kitchen supplier and that Barclays Partner Finances response to 
his claim under section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining  the outcome of 
Mr Js claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Im not persuaded that Barclays Partner  Finances response to Mr Js claim has been  unfair  
or unreasonable. Its clear that Mr J still has issues with his kitchen. But if he now wants  
Barclays Partner Finance  to consider  his claim about those issues  under section 75 and to 
re-open his section 75 claim he should contact  Barclays Partner Finance and ask it to do so. 
And then,  if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be able to complain to this service 
about its response.
But to be able to re-open his section  75 claim,  I consider that he must accept that hes liable  
to Barclays Partner Finance under the agreement and that he should either clear the arrears 
on his account  or try to agree a repayment plan with Barclays Partner Finance for those 
arrears. If hes suffering financial difficulties, Barclays  Partner Finance is required to respond 
to those difficulties  positively and sympathetically.  
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Barclays Partner Finance has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr J about  the kitchen installation  and his loan 
agreement. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require it to pay any further compensation to Mr J or to take any other  action in response to 
his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1310538