K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs L have  provided  any comments  or new information for me 
to consider. As I havent received anything which requires comment, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12638412copy  of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2008. Mr 
and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage in 2008  and at this point a PPI policy was also taken  out. They 
paid a monthly amount  for the policy.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, the policy only covered Mr L for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. In the event of him making a successful claim  it would have paid out the monthly  
benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint as Mr L told us he had a pre-existing  medical condition  at the 
time of the sale. Santander  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  and so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
I dont intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that the policy was sold in a phone call. And from looking at the paperwork Ive 
been given, I think it is most  likely the policy was sold during a telephone call. Santander had to make 
it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mr and Mrs L had to agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs L have said 
they were not aware they had the cover.
Santander no longer has a copy  of the call, which is understandable considering how long ago this 
was. But it has provided a copy of its sales script which  it says its representative would have used 
during the phone call. Whilst I dont know exactly what was said during the conversation,  I dont have 
any persuasive evidence to make me think  the call didnt follow this structure. This document 
prompts the representative  to explain  that the policy was optional and directs them  to obtain Mr Ls 
consent before setting  up the policy. So I think they would  have known  that they didnt  need to take 
out the cover.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome  letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs L after the 
policy was arranged. It refers to Mr L choosing  to take out the cover and refers to the direct debit 
payments that would be taken. If Mr and Mrs L didnt know  about this cover or hadnt agreed to take 
out the policy  in the phone call, I think they would  have  questioned this with Santander when  they 
received this documentation or when these payments started  to be deducted  from their bank 
account.
So based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Santander made  it clear  the policy was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs L agreed to take it out, knowing they could  refuse it if they didnt want  
it.
Santander has said that it didnt recommend  the PPI but Mr and Mrs L have said they did receive 
advice. The call script  provided by Santander directs the representative on several occasions to 
Ref: DRN12638413confirm no advice  is being  provided and so I think it would have been made clear this sale was 
being completed on a non-advised basis. This means Santander  didnt have  to check if the policy  
was right for them but it did need to make sure that Mr and Mrs L got the information  they needed to 
decide for themselves  if the policy was right for them.
Mr L told us that he was suffering from a pre-existing medical condition  at the time of the sale and 
therefore he believed  the policy wouldnt have provided cover for this condition.
Having reviewed  the policy  terms  and conditions  I can see that the following is detailed under  the 
important note section in relation to pre-existing medical  conditions;
This policy does not cover  a medical  condition  or related  symptoms you knew about at the start 
date whether the condition had been  diagnosed or not. This is known as a pre-existing medical 
condition. If you have seen a doctor in the last 12 months your ability to claim may be affected. This 
is explained further in the Accident or sickness over  section.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis Mr L wouldnt  have been  able to make a claim 
for this condition. Santander responded and asked for medical evidence to be provided. Mr L has 
provided this service with a letter from his local medical  practice.
In the letter provided, the doctor has stated  that Mr L was on medication  for the condition  up until 
2000 but has also confirmed  that Mr L didnt  have to start taking medication  again for this condition 
until 12 years  later. So based on this information it appears that Mr L may not have needed  to see a 
doctor for the condition  in the 12 months prior to taking out the cover and therefore  he may not have 
been affected  by this restriction.
In addition  to this, under  the Accident or sickness cover section, the policy states  it will not pay 
any claims arising from;
Any pre-existing medical condition  which persists or returns during the first 12 months of accident of 
sickness cover.  This exclusion will not apply  once you have been continuously insured under  the 
accident or sickness cover  for 12 months, so long as you are attending work at the start of your claim.
When taking this into consideration it appears that, even if Mr L did receive advice or treatment for this 
condition in the 12 months prior to the start date of the policy,  the exclusion would only apply for the 
first 12 months  of the cover.  Ive thought carefully about this and, as Mr and Mrs L were  taking out a 
mortgage on a 20 year term, I still think they would have taken the policy  out even if Mr L was unable 
to claim  in the first year of the cover for this condition.
Whilst the call script provided by Santander does show that the representative explained  the costs of 
the policy  to Mr L during  the phone call, I dont know if all of the information provided by Santander 
was as clear as it should have been. But as Ive mentioned before, I think Mr L chose to take out the 
PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And I think it would  have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. And Ive not seen anything to make me think the policy wasnt affordable for 
them. So I dont think that better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover.
my provisional  decision
As explained above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN1263841