K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has not properly compensated 
them for the sale of a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy in August 1991.
Background
In August  1991  Mr and Mrs C took out a marine mortgage on a boat. They borrowed 
£100,000 to be repaid over 120 months. Mr and Mrs Cs monthly loan repayments were 
£1,658.00.
At the same time Mr and Mrs C were sold a PPI policy.  The PPI was paid for with a separate  
monthly premium of £75.00.
Around 1995 Mr and Mrs C got into financial difficulties and didnt keep up the loan 
repayments, the boat was repossessed  in 1996.
Later, in 1997  Mr C was declared bankrupt.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs C complained to BoS about  the sale of the PPI. BoS agreed that the PPI 
had been mis-sold and offered to pay them compensation. BoS paid a total of £9,944.18 to 
Mr and Mrs C. As the mortgage  was in joint names  it paid half the compensation (£4,972.09) 
directly to Mrs C. Mr Cs half of the compensation was paid directly to the Insolvency  Service  
due to Mr Cs bankruptcy.
Mr and Mrs C say the compensation paid by BoS does not properly compensate  them for 
their losses.  They say they were unaware of the PPI and would have made a claim earlier  
on the policy if they had known of its existence. They  also say that when they discovered the 
PPI had been sold they were told they could  not claim as Mr C was self-employed and the 
PPI didnt provide  cover  for self-employed people.
Mr and Mrs C say the boat would not have  been repossessed if the PPI had paid out, and 
ultimately Mr C may have avoided bankruptcy.
Our adjudicator thought the compensation paid by BoS was fair. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  
with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
BoS upheld the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy and offered compensation. 
Because of this I have not looked into how the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs C as it makes 
no difference to the outcome of the complaint.  In this decision I am only looking at what BoS 
has done to put things  right and whether it needs  to do anything  more or different.
Ref: DRN10239432I looked first at how the compensation  for the mis-sale was calculated.  When  a PPI policy  is 
found to be mis-sold, the aim of the compensation is to put the consumer, as far as possible, 
in the position theyd  be in if it hadnt  been  sold. 
In this case Id expect BoS to refund all the premiums paid by Mr and Mrs C. And Id expect 
BoS to add compensatory interest at 8% simple  (15% simple before April 1993) to those 
premiums to compensate  for the time Mr and Mrs C were out of pocket. I can see               
Mr and Mrs C paid 50 PPI premiums  of £75.00 making a total of £3,750.00  and I can see 
BoS has refunded  this amount. It added compensatory interest of £6,187.59 (net of tax). So, 
Im satisfied BoS calculated the compensation for the mis-sale  correctly and in the way Id 
expect it to.
However, Mr and Mrs C say they suffered further consequential losses  as a result  of the    
mis-sale of the PPI which  they have not been compensated for. Chiefly,  they say that if they 
had been able to claim on the PPI policy the boat would never have been repossessed.
Ive thought about this. Mr and Mrs C have said they were initially unaware of the existence 
of the PPI policy. But the reason the policy was mis-sold appears to be because  Mr C was 
self-employed and therefore unable to make  a claim. So, Mr C would never have been able 
to make a claim on the policy even  if BoS had made him fully aware  of the policy.
And if BoS had made Mr C aware  at the point of sale that the policy  would not cover him, he 
would not have bought  it in the first place and would still not have been  able to make a claim. 
Ive also thought about whether the cost of the PPI itself was a factor  in causing  the boat to 
be repossessed. I see that the monthly repayments for the loan were £1,658.00. Whereas 
the PPI premiums were  £75.00. The fact that the PPI premiums represented only around 4% 
of the total monthly cost of the loan makes  me think that Mr and Mrs C would likely have 
encountered the same  financial difficulties even  if the PPI had not been sold to them.
In summary  I find that BoS has calculated the PPI compensation  in the way Id expect it to.
And I dont  think the mis-sale of the PPI caused  Mr and Mrs C to experience the financial 
difficulties they had in 1995 and to ultimately lose their boat.
This decision only relates to the compensation offered by BoS for the mis-sale of the PPI.  
Mr and Mrs C have also mentioned that BoS never  informed them of how much the boat was 
sold for, and they say BoS may have profited unfairly from the sale. Ive not looked at that 
issue as part of this decision. If Mr and Mrs C feel that BoS treated them  unfairly over the 
repossession and sale of the boat they should contact BoS directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no further  award against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN10239433
Ref: DRN1023943