K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy. 
background
On 3 August  2017, Mr M was driving  his car when he was involved in an accident with 
another car. He said he turned right and stopped in a boxed junction because  the road signs  
were badly designed causing  him confusion. Soon after he stopped another car came and 
crashed into his car. While Mr M thinks the authority responsible for the road signage  and 
layout is responsible for him being confused  and stopping in the road, he also feels the other 
driver was at fault for not stopping, but instead driving into him.
AA felt that Mr M was to blame.  But when Mr M objected, AA asked a lawyer  for their legal 
opinion on the incident. The legal opinion said that Mr M was wholly  to blame  and if the 
matter went to court, there was no prospect of a successful outcome against either the 
authority responsible for the signage and road layout, or against the other  driver.  So AA 
settled the other drivers claim. That meant  the accident was recorded  against Mr Ms driving 
record as a fault claim and affected his no claims bonus years.
Mr M complained saying AAs decision to settle  was wrong and that when he came to renew 
his policy  in October 2017 with AA, his premium  increased almost five fold. AA said they 
didnt do anything wrong so they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt think  that was 
fair so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the 
complaint. He felt that AAs decision to settle the claim was reasonable. But he felt Mr Ms 
complaint about  the renewal premium increase should be upheld  and that AA should pay 
Mr M £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
As both AA and Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr M, but I will only be upholding his complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of very detailed points and Ive considered  all 
those carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider  to be the key issues.  I cant 
decide who was at fault for the accident.  My role is to decide if AA have  dealt with the claim 
in a fair and reasonable  way, and in line with the policy.
AAs decision to settle the claim
The policy gives AA discretion to decide  claims as they feel appropriate. But I expect  them to 
exercise that discretion in a fair and reasonable way.
AA have experience  in dealing with cases like this and I can see they settled after 
investigating the claim and getting  legal advice. And they took into consideration all the 
information that was available, including:  Mr Ms account; photos, diagrams and information 
provided by Mr M; the information given by the other driver; and the legal advice from a 
Ref: DRN11899682lawyer who is considered an expert on matters like this. So I think  AAs decision  to settle 
was reasonable.  
If AA didnt settle the claim  as they did, the only way of resolving the dispute would have 
been to take the matter to court. For the reasons explained above, in particular the 
unequivocal advice  of the lawyer that Mr Ms case had no prospects of success  against  
either the authority responsible for the signage or the other driver, AA felt that if this matter  
went to court  they had little chance  of succeeding. I dont expect insurers  to take disputes to 
court that are unlikely to succeed. So I think their decision not to take the matter to court,  
and potentially incur  significant costs in doing so, was reasonable. I understand AA settled 
the claim on a without prejudice  basis. That means  Mr M can still take the matter to court  
himself if thats what he wants to do.
premium increase on renewal
AA sent Mr M a renewal  notice for his October 2017 policy renewal. I can see that the 
premium was around five times the amount  it was the year before. Mr M was unhappy  and 
felt the increase was unfair.  I understand he feels the increase was connected to the way AA 
dealt with the accident, in particular by settling the claim of the other  driver his no claims 
bonus was affected. Mr M didnt  renew his policy with AA and took out cover elsewhere. And 
while I understand his new policy was cheaper  than AAs renewal offer,  it was still much 
higher than the previous  year. 
But AA said they calculated his renewal policy correctly and treated him in the same way 
they would  any other  customer  with similar circumstances.  In cases  like this, our service 
asks insurers for a detailed explanation as to how they calculated the premium.  We asked 
for that information  in Mr Ms case.  That information  is commercially sensitive so insurers  
dont disclose it to their customers, which I think is reasonable. But we ask to see it to ensure 
the customer has been treated fairly.  As in Mr Ms case, we always  undertake to not disclose 
the information to the customer or anyone  else. While AA disclosed to us general information  
about their guidelines, they refused to show us how specifically they calculated Mr Ms 
renewal premium. That has meant that we havent  been able to confirm whether or not it was 
calculated fairly. But as Mr M didnt take up the renewal policy,  I dont think he suffered 
financial detriment as he was able to shop around  and get a cheaper policy. But Im 
upholding this part of the complaint as its important that our service  should be allowed  to 
independently verify how Mr Ms premium  was calculated as he clearly questioned it and felt 
it was unfair.  But Mr M has been deprived of having  that done.  It has caused him a degree of 
distress and inconvenience so I require AA to pay him £175 compensation to address that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited  pay Mr M £175  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience he experienced.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1189968