K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that George Banco.com  Limited  (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner. And she complains that GBL failed to treat her fairly  when  she faced problems 
repaying her borrowing.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2021. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  GBL has said that it accepts my 
provisional decision and will make the necessary adjustments  to Miss Cs outstanding 
balance. Miss C also accepts my provisional  decision, but has asked that GBL pay her some  
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  been  caused.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and given the 
acceptance from both parties of my findings on the matter of the loans being  lent 
irresponsibly, I see no reason to alter that part of my provisional  findings. However I need  to 
provide some further clarification on the matter  of additional compensation.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think GBL had acted unfairly when Miss C 
told it about her problems making  her repayments.  I thought that the proposal  it had made to 
Miss C was reasonable, and that it had acted promptly to repay two payments  it had taken in 
error.
I havent seen  anything to alter those conclusions. So I dont uphold that part of Miss Cs 
complaint. And it would be that aspect of the complaint that might lead me to consider  
whether Miss C should be paid additional  compensation  in respect  of any trouble and upset 
shed been caused. In terms of the lending, GBL provided Miss C with loans that she asked 
for and said that she could afford  to repay. Whilst that doesnt alter my findings that GBL 
shouldnt have agreed the loans,  it doesnt  lead me to conclude that any additional  
compensation for trouble  and upset should  be required.
In my provisional decision I asked GBL to pay Miss C some compensation. I apologise to 
Miss C if my wording wasnt sufficiently clear.  That compensation was in the form of a 
reduction in her outstanding balance. I dont think that GBL needs to pay any additional 
monetary compensation  direct to Miss C.
I can also see that Miss C has questioned  whether  it is right,  following my decision,  for GBL 
to leave her remaining balance with a third party for collection. I cannot say that shouldnt  be 
done  even if I directed GBL to take the debt back into its own books, it would be entirely  
reasonable for it to be transferred back out to the third party  almost  immediately. GBL has 
agreed to ensure that the third party updates the outstanding balance to reflect the terms of 
my decision.  I think that approach is reasonable.
Ref: DRN17533842So, in summary,  I dont currently think GBL should have given either  loan to Miss C. But 
I dont think it has treated her unfairly in any other way.
putting things right
I dont think GBL should have lent to Miss C in February or September 2015.  So to put 
things right, GBL should do the following;
GBL lent Miss C the sum of £3,000  in February 2015. GBL should deduct from this 
any repayments that Miss C has made across both loans.
If that calculation  shows  that Miss C has repaid  more than the £3,000  that she 
borrowed, then GBL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, 
to the date of settlement. 
If that calculation  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then I remind GBL that it 
(or its agent) should take a sympathetic view when  seeking  to agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Miss C
GBL should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in 
relation the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires GBL to take off tax from this interest.  GBL must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Cs complaint and direct  
George Banco.com  Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17533843EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss C complains  that George Banco.com Limited  (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible manner. And 
she complains  that GBL failed to treat her fairly  when she faced  problems repaying  her borrowing.
background
Miss C was given two loans by GBL.  She borrowed £3,000 in February  2015 and agreed to repay the 
loan in 60 monthly  instalments. Miss C says that shortly  after taking  the loan she lost her job and 
started to face financial  problems. She says that GBL rejected her request to make token repayments 
but instead allowed her to refinance her loan. So in September 2015 Miss C took a new loan for her 
outstanding balance that she agreed to repay over 120 months. That meant that her monthly 
repayments were halved.  But Miss C has continued to face problems  repaying her loan and a large 
balance remains outstanding.
Miss Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  the checks that 
GBL had done before agreeing the loans  were sufficient. But, based on what Miss C had been able to 
show about her finances  at the time, she hadnt enough  information to conclude  that better  checks 
would have led to the applications being declined.  And our adjudicator didnt  think that GBL had been 
unreasonable in how it had treated Miss C when she struggled to repay  what  shed borrowed.  So the 
adjudicator didnt think  the complaint should be upheld.
Miss C didnt agree with that assessment and provided some further information  about  her finances  at 
the time of the first loan.  As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally  it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Miss Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time GBL gave these loans  to Miss C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so GBL had to think about whether repaying  the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice  this meant that 
GBL had to ensure that making  the repayments wouldnt  cause  Miss C undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for GBL to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN17533844the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether GBL did what it needed to before agreeing  to lend to Miss C.
GBL gathered some  information from Miss C before it agreed the first loan. It asked her for details of 
her income,  and her normal  expenditure. But GBL hasnt given us details of any other checks that it 
did before  agreeing the loan.
Miss C was entering into a significant  commitment  with GBL. She would  need to make monthly  
repayments for a period of five years. So I would expect that GBL would  want  to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Miss Cs financial  circumstances before it 
agreed to lend to her. I dont think that the checks that GBL has given  us details of were enough. 
I think  it would have been proportionate  for GBL to independently check  the true state of Miss Cs 
finances before agreeing  the loan. 
But although  I cant say the checks GBL did before  agreeing the loan were  sufficient, that in itself 
doesnt mean  that Miss Cs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded  that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  GBL that Miss C couldnt sustainably  afford  
the repayments. Given  the time that has passed since the loans were taken  Miss C has found  it 
difficult to give us full copies of all her bank  statements. But she has been able to give me some 
pages of her statements from the time of the first loan.  And from those I can get sufficient  information 
about what I think  better checks would  have  shown  GBL.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that GBL should 
have carried out. I do think GBL needed evidence to corroborate what  Miss C said was happening  
with her finances.  And looking at her bank statements is one way of achieving that although  there are 
of course many other ways that level of detail could  be established. But I think that by looking at some 
of Miss Cs bank statements I can get a good idea of what better  checks  might have shown.
Around the time of the first loan Miss C was borrowing  heavily from a number of other short term 
lenders. I can see that on the day after the loan proceeds were credited  to her account  by GBL she 
made repayments on eight separate short term instalment loans. I have seen  no indication that Miss 
C gave any assurance to GBL that she was intending to use its loan to consolidate other borrowing. 
And in fact, just two days later, Miss C took three further loans from other short  term lenders.
Had GBL done what I consider to be proportionate checks it would have seen the extent  of the 
financial problems that Miss C was facing. Given the problems she was clearly facing in managing her 
money I dont  think a responsible lender could  conclude that it would be likely that any new borrowing  
would be repaid  in a sustainable manner. I think it would have  been likely  that Miss C would  have 
needed to borrow further to make her repayments on any new loans.  So I dont think GBL should 
have given the first loan to Miss C.
The second  loan was simply provided to try to help Miss C manage her commitments on the first loan. 
She gained no financial benefit from that loan since the entire proceeds were used to repay her 
borrowing on loan 1. Since I dont think loan 1 should have been given to Miss C it logically  follows 
that loan 2 shouldnt have been provided  either. So I uphold Miss Cs complaint  about that loan too.
Ref: DRN17533845I havent seen anything to make me think that GBL acted unfairly when Miss C told it about her 
problems making her repayments. Notwithstanding  what I have said above,  GBL did act promptly to 
try to reduce the repayments  that Miss C needed to make. I appreciate that reduction didnt go as far 
as Miss C had hoped. But I dont think what GBL proposed was unreasonable. And whilst I can see 
that GBL took two payments that Miss C hadnt authorised, it immediately  offered to refund those  to 
her when she made the lender aware of its mistake.
So in summary, I dont  currently think GBL should have given either loan to Miss C. GBL needs to pay 
Miss C some compensation.
Ref: DRN1753384