K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is complaining about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited because it wont accept  claims 
on her critical  illness insurance policies. Shes unhappy with the decisions it has reached 
and the way it has assessed her claims.
background
Mrs C is claiming  against two critical illness insurance policies with Aviva. One started in 
2001 for a term of 18 years and the other  in 2003 for a term of 17 years. Both policies 
included total permanent disability (TPD) benefit  to the policy anniversary before she 
reached the age of 60  the 2014 anniversaries in this case  - after which it provided a loss of 
independent existence (LOIE) benefit.  These were designed to pay a lump  sum if she met 
the policy definition.  They also included payment protection benefit (PPB), which was 
designed to pay the policy premiums if she couldnt work due to ill-health.
Sadly, Mrs C hasnt  worked for a number of years due to a combination  of illnesses. Aviva 
originally accepted her claim for the PPB benefit,  but stopped paying this in 2014.
Mrs C complained about this decision and referred  her concerns to us. Our adjudicator  didnt 
uphold the complaint. She didnt feel the medical evidence showed Mrs C was unable  to 
carry out her own occupation,  a requirement for successful PPB and TPD claims.
Mrs C contacted Aviva again to claim on her policies in 2016.  It didnt  accept the claim and 
she made another complaint. In May 2017,  one of my ombudsmen colleagues partially 
upheld that complaint. In addition to awarding  compensation for the way it handled the claim,  
she said Aviva should  arrange an independent medical examination  (IME) and:
review the TPD claim on both policies, taking  account of Mrs Cs then recent 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia, to see whether  she met the relevant criteria before  the 
benefit ended in 2014;
if it concluded she didnt meet the criteria for the TPD benefit before it ended in 2014, 
assess whether she met the criteria for the LOIE benefit; and
if it didnt accept  claims  for either the TPD or LOIE benefits, assess a claim for the 
PPB benefit.
For the TPD and PPB benefit, which are payable  if a policyholder is unable to follow his/her 
normal occupation, my colleague said the assessment should  be based on Mrs Cs former  
role of a charity manager.
Aviva then arranged  for a consultant in occupational  medicine, Dr B, to visit Mrs C and 
complete an assessment. Dr B ultimately  didnt feel she was unable to carry out her normal 
occupation before the TPD benefit expired in 2014.  She also didnt feel Mrs C was unable  to 
perform three of the activities of daily living (ADLs)  set out in policy  terms and used to 
assess LOIE and PPB claims after the age of 60.
After receiving Dr Bs report, Aviva declined  the claims and Mrs C approached us again.
Ref: DRN17881362Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Aviva had instructed and 
carried out appropriate further investigation  and that the available  evidence  still doesnt 
support Mrs Cs claims.
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed. Shes made the following  key points:
She had to push  Aviva to get the names  of three  consultants,  as required in my 
colleagues decision, so she could make  a choice  about  who would carry out the 
IME.
Her detailed comments on Dr Bs report,  which she says includes a number of errors,  
show she didnt listen to what she had to say.
Dr B didnt have  access  to all of her medical records.
Dr B doesnt understand her unique symptoms and disorders and actually doubted 
some of her diagnoses. Further, Dr B only saw her for a short period of time so she 
doesnt fully understand how they affect  her. 
She maintains  her state of health  has prevented her from doing the key parts of the 
job she was doing before she had to stop work.
She thinks we should be considering other medical evidence  to determine her claim, 
not Dr Bs report in isolation.
After an appeal, she was awarded  the personal  independent payment (PIP) by the 
DWP. This is assessed using similar ADLs to those listed in the policy terms.
Shes willing to arrange a further consultation with a consultant  who understands her 
conditions more  fully.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mrs Cs health problems and I realise shes  
been through a very difficult time and that her problems continue to have  a serious impact on 
her life.
Mrs C has made very detailed submissions in support of her complaint  and Ive read and 
considered these carefully. But I havent necessarily tried to address every point raised in 
this decision. Ive instead concentrated on what  I think are the key issues.
As Ive explained above, Mrs C was potentially eligible for the TPD benefit until the policy 
anniversaries in 2014. For a successful claim, the policy terms require the following definition  
to be met:
Ref: DRN17881363Total Permanent Disablement  (occurring prior to the policy  anniversary  before  
attaining age 60)
The life assured is unable to follow his/her normal occupation as a result of sickness  
or accident and will, in the reasonable opinion of the Companys medical adviser,  
permanently continue to be unable to follow his/her  normal occupation, taking into 
account current medical knowledge  and technology.
When the TPD benefit expired, it was replaced by the LOIE benefit. For a successful claim,  
the policy terms require  the following definition to be met:
Loss of Independent Existence (after age 60)
Loss of Independent Existence will mean a permanent inability to perform 
independently three or more Activities of Daily  Living  (see specific definitions), after 
attaining age 60, with or without the use of mechanical equipment, special devices or 
other aids Confirmation must be received by a Consultant Physician and be 
supported by the Companys medical  adviser.
The policy also included PPB, which required the following definition to be met:
Premium Protection  Benefit
(b) Where the Life Assured is in gainful occupation (excluding the Armed Forces) 
and is under the age of 60 immediately prior to commencement of Incapacity,  
Incapacity will mean the Life Assured is totally incapacitated by illness  or accident 
and is unable to follow his own occupation, and is not following  any other occupation, 
provided that if the Life Assured attains age 60 during  the Period of Waiver  or during 
the initial 6 months  of Incapacity the definition of Incapacity will change to that 
described in Condition 5(c)
(c) Where the Life Assured is not in gainful  employment or is in the Armed Forces  
immediately prior to commencement  of Incapacity,  or is aged  60 or more,  Incapacity 
will mean the Life Assured is unable to perform  unaided  three  or more  of the 
Activities of Daily  Living listed  in Condition 4 (f) above.
The ADLs mentioned in the LOIE and PPB benefits are defined  as follows:
Activities of Daily Living
1. Transferring
The ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa, or to 
get on or off a toilet or commode.
2. Continence
The ability to manage bowel and bladder  functions such that an adequate level of 
personal hygiene  can be maintained.
3. Dressing
The ability to put on, take off, secure  and unfasten all necessary garments and any 
braces, artificial limbs or other surgical  appliances.
Ref: DRN178813644. Mobility
The ability to move indoors from one room to another on a level surface in the 
insureds normal place  of residence.
5. Feeding
The ability to feed oneself once food and drink has been prepared  and made  
available.
6. Washing
The ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath or 
shower) such that an adequate level of personal  hygiene can be maintained.
To briefly summarise  the above, the TPD and PPB benefits up to the age of 60 require the 
policyholder to be unable to carry out his/her  normal occupation. For the TPD benefit, it 
needs to be accepted he/she is totally and permanently unable to do this. The LOIE and 
PPB benefits after the age of 60 require the policyholder to be unable to perform three or 
more of the ADLs without  assistance from another person,  permanently  in the case  of LOIE.
Ive read Dr Bs report carefully.  I know Mrs C has done the same so I wont  quote from it at 
length in this decision. But in summary,  my interpretation is that it focussed on the correct  
issues; those being Mrs Cs ability to carry out her role as a charity  manager prior to the 
expiry of the TPD benefit in 2014,  and her current ability to perform the listed ADLs.  Dr B 
was clear in her view that Mrs C wasnt totally unable to perform that role in 2014.  And also 
that she isnt unable to perform  three  or more of the relevant ADLs without assistance  from 
another person. 
I understand Mrs C has reservations  about  whats happened.  But overall, Im satisfied Aviva 
has essentially done what my colleague told it to do. It arranged for an appropriately  
qualified medical  professional to assess Mrs Cs medical state of health at the relevant  
points in time and against the relevant criteria as set out in the policy terms. Once  it received 
Dr Bs report, it then reassessed her claims.  In view of Dr Bs conclusions,  I also think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to conclude  the requirements for all of the above benefits havent been  
met and to decline the claims.
I appreciate Mrs C isnt entirely  happy  with how the assessment was arranged. But Aviva 
has provided copies  of its email correspondence  with her and Im satisfied this shows  she 
was given the names of three  candidates  to carry out the assessment and that Dr B was her 
choice.
Mrs C clearly has issues with Dr Bs assessment, but Im not convinced the nature of most of 
the factual errors she says were included do very much to undermine the validity  of the final 
conclusions. Its important  to understand I have no authority over Dr B and Im not qualified 
to assess the accuracy of her conclusions. As Ive said above,  Im satisfied  she was an 
appropriately qualified  and independent person, and that her report  shows  she assessed  the 
issues she was required to and that are applicable  to Mrs Cs claims. With these points in 
mind, I think  its reasonable to attribute substantial weight  to her comments.
I understand Mrs C is concerned Dr B didnt have access  to all of her records.  But as Ive 
said above, Im satisfied shes appropriately qualified and Ive no reason to think  she doesnt  
know what information is needed to make this type of assessment. If Dr B had felt it 
necessary to have  access to more information, she could have requested it.
Ref: DRN17881365While I can see why Mrs C would feel otherwise, I think Dr Bs qualifications and experience  
means she likely does  have a good understanding of Mrs Cs conditions.  I also cant  see 
from her report  that she particularly questioned the diagnoses Mrs C has received. Instead, I 
think the report focussed on the key issue of how these conditions have affected her ability  
to work and perform  the relevant ADLs. I realise Dr B only saw Mrs C for a relatively short  
period of time. But she clearly felt this was long enough to make  the conclusions  she needed 
to make.  If she had felt it was necessary to see Mrs C for longer or to arrange  a further 
appointment, she had the option  to do that. 
Dr B correctly assessed  Mrs Cs ability to carry out the duties typically associated with the 
role of a charity manager in 2014,  rather than the specific duties she was carrying out with 
her particular employer.  Once she concluded Mrs C wasnt totally  and permanently unable  to 
perform all aspects  of that role, I think it was reasonable to conclude the TPD and PPB 
benefits werent payable prior to the policy anniversaries in 2014.
This is now the third time Mrs C has approached us about her claims on these policies.  
Earlier evidence was assessed in connection  with her earlier complaints, most recently in 
May 2017. My colleagues felt the available medical  evidence didnt support the claims on 
either occasion. Particularly  in relation to Mrs Cs situation in 2014, Im satisfied the relevant  
medical evidence  other  than Dr Bs report has already been considered.
I appreciate the situation in respect  of Mrs Cs ability to perform the ADLs could be subject to 
change and therefore affect  the current assessment of her eligibility for the LOIE  and PPB 
benefits. Thats why Ive considered the other evidence shes  provided, including  the 
information about the state benefits  shes  been awarded. But on balance,  I dont think this is 
enough to call into question the validity of Dr Bs report  or Avivas decision to rely on it. I can 
see there are some similarities between the criteria  for the PIP payment and the ADLs  in the 
policy terms, but the requirements arent  identical and they are assessed differently. That 
means it is possible to qualify for one without meeting the requirements for the other.
Finally, I note Mrs C says shes  willing  to arrange another assessment of her situation and 
thats ultimately a decision for her to make.  If she does this, the correct process would be for 
her to submit all new evidence to Aviva first of all. If shes not happy with its response, shed 
then be able to make a new complaint. Before she decides what to do, I would urge Mrs C to 
think carefully. In particular, she should  understand  that she would have to pay for any 
further assessment  and its quite possible she wouldnt be able to recover  that cost later on. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mrs C and isnt what  she was 
hoping to hear. But taking everything into account, Im satisfied Aviva did what it needed to 
do to comply with my colleagues  previous  decision.  Once it received Dr Bs report, I think it 
was also entitled  to maintain its view that she hadnt  met the requirements set out in the 
policy terms for a successful claim under any of the benefits outlined above.
Ref: DRN17881366my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1788136