K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs W took out on a store card account in September 
2000. It was added to her account  when she applied  for the card in store.
Mrs W says she had an insurance policy already so didnt  need PPI. She also says that if 
the costs, benefits  or optionality of the policy had been made  clear  she wouldnt have taken 
it. She thinks  FICL mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W has said the optionality of the policy wasnt made clear  to her. But I think FICL made 
Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because FICL has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. 
This shows there was a separate  section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. 
It says on the separate section for PPI: only sign this box if you require account cover. Mrs W 
then signs next to this statement. Had Mrs W not wanted the PPI she could have completed 
the application without signing separately  for it.
So, on balance,  I think Mrs W was aware the policy was optional and she agreed  to take it 
out by signing  the separate section  on the application form.
This application was made by Mrs W completing an application in a store. So because of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by FICL. So FICL didnt have to check  if the 
policy was suitable  for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave Mrs W enough  information  
so she could make  an informed choice  whether  the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. So I need to consider if Mrs W would  have  acted differently  and not bought the 
policy, if better information had been  provided. And on balance I dont think  better 
information wouldve  led her to act differently.
Ref: DRN18045402Mrs W has told us she had between 3 days sick pay from her employer and also a separate 
insurance policy (our service has asked for further details but Mrs W has not been able to 
provide this). But the policy would have paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs W would 
receive. I think taking into consideration what Mrs W has said about  her circumstances, the 
PPI would have  been useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also 
couldnt see any significant or limiting  terms that would have affected Mrs Ws decision to 
take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this would 
have affected  Mrs Ws decision to take out the policy for the reasons  I have already given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ws comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1804540