K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with Scottish  Friendly Assurance Society Limiteds management  
and treatment of the bond  they purchased from its predecessor business in 2008.
background
Specifically, they said that:
They were unhappy with the initial sale as when they set up a regular withdrawal 
from the fund, this was set at 5% annually. They thought the money  was being taken 
from the profits and would not affect  the capital  theyd invested
They never received  any statements or other  paperwork from Scottish Friendly  so 
werent kept up to date with fund valuations
The monthly withdrawal amounts were not reduced accordingly  when they made a 
lump sum withdrawal in 2010. This meant  the policy was surrendered  in 2017 with a 
zero balance.  They had hoped to rely on this policy as a part of their retirement  
planning so its caused great distress when they realised this fund no longer held any 
value
An investigator at this service did not feel their complaint should be upheld. She said:
Mr and Mrs H received  advice from a third party about this investment so any 
concerns about how it worked,  and whether they were  provided with sufficient 
information about its operation, should  be addressed to that business.
Scottish Friendly confirmed that it sent yearly statements which  provided  fund 
valuations. Having  seen the copies of the statements from 2009 to 2016, she noted  
that they were  sent to the correct  registered  address and so - on the balance of 
probability  she felt they wouldve  received them. While these statements didnt 
contain detailed  transactions, she felt they provided enough information regarding the 
funds value
Scottish Friendly said it didnt receive  any instruction to reduce the amount of the 
regular withdrawals, which is why it did not alter this sum after the lump sum 
withdrawal. The original  application for the bond,  set the Automatic Withdrawal at 5% 
a year based on the initial investment  sum
She felt it was clear  that the withdrawal was based on the invested amount and not 
the balance of the bond which meant the monthly withdrawal continued to be based 
on the percentage of the initial  investment
She understood how this confusion might have  occurred and thought it wasnt  
unreasonable for Mr and Mrs H to have expected  the regular withdrawals to be 
reduced. But she felt the onus was on Mr and Mrs H to check  their bank statements 
and confirm whether  this was the case
Mr and Mrs H did not agree, and said:
Ref: DRN17626652Scottish Friendlys predecessor business sold them this bond  and was responsible 
for the errors between 2010 and 2015. After Scottish Friendly took over in 2015 it 
continued with these errors and are responsible for the whole period
They had no concern with their advisors  who explained the nature of the bond
The statements showing the state of the bond  were not financially explicit
The regular monthly withdrawals from 2010  shouldve been 5% of the new reduced 
sum of £15,000 not of the original investment sum
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
Firstly, it is important to emphasise that Scottish  Friendlys predecessor company  did not 
advise Mr and Mrs H to take out this bond.  It was not therefore responsible  for ensuring they 
fully understood  how the withdrawals would be made. This was the responsibility of their 
financial advisor.
It could not have guaranteed that a 5% annual  withdrawal  would  not eat into their capital  
no provider could  as it could not guarantee that the underlying investment would grow by 
more than 5% (i.e. to cover the annual charges as well as the withdrawals). This is 
something their advisor should have made clear, if this was a concern.
I have seen no evidence  to indicate  the bonds  documentation promised withdrawals  would 
not impact on the initial capital. Indeed  the prospectus  states : If you take withdrawals  which 
exceed the rate of growth  of your Bond, those withdrawals will eat into your capital.
Further, the illustration  provided showed  that if the bond only grew in value by 5% a year  
and Mr and Mrs H took £125 a month in income - it would be worth  just £25,000 after 10 
years i.e. £5,000  less than they had invested.  So the key features document explained  that 
even if they did not make  any lump sum withdrawals the annual 5% taken  out could reduce 
their capital over time.
Mr and Mrs H were also informed that they would receive £125 a month  in a letter dated 9 
November 2008.  There is no suggestion that this figure might change  if either the value of 
their investment dropped or they took any lump sums out.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs H might have  assumed that their monthly income would 
halve after they withdrew roughly half of their initial investment in 2010 but there is nothing in 
the documentation to say that this would happen.  Given this, I do not believe Scottish  
Friendly or its predecessor company would have been entitled  to unilaterally halve the 
income payments  without  Mr and Mrs Hs written  permission. As it was not Mr and Mrs Hs 
advisor it had no reason  to contact them to ask if they wanted  the monthly payments to be 
halved.
This policy was set up on the basis that Mr and Mrs H would receive £125 a month, and I 
believe Scottish Friendly was required to make this payment until otherwise instructed.
Ref: DRN17626653Finally, while  I share Mr and Mrs Hs concerns  about the annual statements which I dont 
believe provided a clear and unambiguous picture  of the state of their investment, this 
doesnt mean I think this is sufficient  to uphold their complaint.
Ultimately, I feel they ought reasonably to have  realised  that continuing to take the same 
monthly payments  even  after they had withdrawn  more than half of their original investment 
sum was bound to reduce the value of their capital. While the statements did not make the 
precise picture absolutely  clear, I dont believe they were fundamentally misleading, and I 
agree that the onus was on them to question why they were still receiving the same monthly 
sum if this isnt what they wanted to happen.  
Overall, I am satisfied that Scottish Friendly managed their bond,  including the withdrawals, 
in line with the terms and conditions, and therefore  did not do anything  wrong.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1762665