K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Autonet Insurance Services Limited unfairly  charged  him when it 
cancelled his car insurance policy. 
Autonet Insurance Services is a broker. It had authority to act as the insurers agent when it 
cancelled Mr Cs policy. 
background
Mr C bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Autonet in June 2018. Autonet wrote  to 
Mr C on behalf of the insurer and asked him to provide  verification  documents.  
Autonet didnt hear from Mr C and so it cancelled his policy  in June  2018.  It charged him for 
the days he was insured,  along with its set up and cancellation fees. The insurer  also 
charged Mr C a cancellation fee. 
Mr C had paid an instalment of £73.29. Autonet said Mr C owed  a balance of £225.94.  This 
included the full amount for two additional products. Autonet  said the costs of these products 
were non refundable after the cooling off period. 
Mr C complained to Autonet in July 2018. He said he didnt receive the two letters Autonet  
said it sent asking  him to send verification documents. He didnt believe Autonet had sent 
them. Mr C was very unhappy about the amount Autonet said he owed on cancellation. 
Autonet said it had followed its cancellation  process  correctly. 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Autonet  had acted 
reasonably and in line with its terms of business.  
Mr C didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
When Mr C bought his policy,  Autonet sent Mr C his policy  documents, a Statement of Fact 
and its Terms of Business. I understand Mr C received these.
Mr C bought his policy on 8 June 2018. The start date was 11 June 2018. Autonet says 
Mr Cs insurer  asked for verification documents after the start date - and I can see Autonet  
wrote to Mr C to request  these documents by letter on 12 June 2018. 
In this letter Autonet warned that if it didnt receive the verification documents it could lead to 
Mr Cs policy  being cancelled. 
It didnt hear from Mr C, and so it sent another letter dated 19 June 2018. This letter asked 
for the documents  again.  But it said that if it didnt receive them in the next seven days, it 
would cancel Mr Cs policy. 
Ref: DRN10656412It didnt hear from Mr C, and so on 27 June 2018  Autonet wrote to Mr C to say it had 
cancelled his policy. 
I think Autonet gave  Mr C an opportunity to provide the documents  the insurer needed  and 
gave him sufficient notice  before it cancelled his policy. I know Mr C says he didnt receive 
these letters. But he received letters sent before and after these letters using the same  
address  and sent by Autonet. So I dont think on balance any postal issues  are Autonets  
responsibility. 
Autonet set out its charges on cancellation in its Terms of Business.  This included a set up 
fee and a cancellation fee. Autonet charged Mr C a set up fee of £30. Its cancellation fee  
irrespective of whether  it was in the cooling off period  was £79.95. Autonet  reduced this to 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
We dont decide  a set charge for cancellation. But we think its reasonable for a business to 
charge an arrangement fee and cancellation  fee provided it was explained when it arranged 
the policy. I dont  think these charges  which Autonet reduced to a total of £80  are above 
the range  we see businesses charge in the industry. 
I can see that Mr Cs insurer also charged  him a cancellation fee. We generally dont think its 
fair for a customer to be charged  twice  for cancellation. But I can only consider the actions of 
Autonet in my decision.  And as the broker, Autonet carried out the administration work in 
arranging and cancelling the policy. So I think it was fair for Autonets cancellation charge to 
apply. As the investigator explained, Mr C is entitled  to bring a complaint against  the insurer  
of the policy  if he remains unhappy with the cancellation fee it charged him. If  after the 
insurer replies to Mr C  he remains unhappy   he can ask us to look at his complaint 
against the insurer. 
Irrespective of how long the policy is on cover for, its reasonable for a customer to pay for 
the days an insurer provided cover. 
Autonet cancelled Mr Cs policy on day 16. Mr C bought additional products when he bought 
his car insurance policy. This was for motor legal protection at £39.95 and excess  protection 
cover at £61.95.  Autonet told Mr C in its Terms of Business that if his policy  cancelled  after 
14 days, no refund would apply for the additional  products  he bought.
Its Terms of Business doesnt specify, but by its absence I think  its reasonable to therefore 
conclude that if Mr C cancelled his policy within 14 days, Mr C would have received a full 
refund of the additional products  as long as no claim  had been  made.
If Mr C is unhappy with the amount the insurer for each additional product has charged  him 
on cancellation, he can contact the insurers directly to raise  a complaint. If he remains 
unhappy with their reply, he can ask us to look at things for him. The name  of each insurer  
for the additional  products  is in the policy documents Autonet  sent Mr C. 
I understand Mr C will be disappointed  with my decision. But I think Autonet  as the broker  
 acted reasonably  and in line with its Terms of Business. So I dont think  it needs to do any 
more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN10656413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before insert 19 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1065641