K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Miss O. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Miss O the policy at the same time that she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Miss O and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Miss O aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. 
Miss O says the PPI was added  without her knowledge or consent. However this did 
happen over 15 years  ago, and so I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so many years ago. And I have seen a copy of Miss Os 
application form, and I can see that she signed the separate box saying she wanted  
to take PPI. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Miss Os individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. There was some information about costs, but it wasnt 
as clear as it should have been.  But I dont think,  in her circumstances, full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. 
And it doesnt look like shed have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss O because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Miss O about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Miss O, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN15347932To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss O any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision 8 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1534793