K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs S. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs S was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. I reached a different view to 
that of the adjudicator and so I sent out a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
My current  view is that this complaint should be upheld. This is because FICL  had to 
give Mrs S clear information about the PPI, so she could decide whether or not to 
have it. But it appears that the policy would have been no use to Mrs S, as she says 
she was unemployed when  she was sold the PPI, and shes  been consistent about 
this during her complaint.  She says the employment details given on the credit 
application were  those of her husband,  who was to be an additional cardholder. I 
think thats likely to be right. And looking at the questions in the application form she 
completed and signed  to apply for the account and the PPI, I can see why she 
answered them in the way she did, and I think it was reasonable for her to have done 
so.
FICL has not shown  how Mrs Ss husband  could have benefited from the PPI, and 
whether any necessary processes for this to happen  were  followed to enable  this. 
And it was only Mrs S, as the main cardholder,  who was responsible for making the 
card repayments - not her husband. So I think its fair and reasonable for me to look 
just at her own circumstances. And as she wasnt working when she took the PPI 
out, she wouldnt have  been able to benefit from the accident and sickness  or 
unemployment cover.
I dont think FICL gave her clear  information  about  the PPI. And I think it unlikely 
Mrs S would have taken the PPI if shed been  given good enough information about 
it. 
I invited everyone to comment. Mrs S accepted my proposed decision. FICL made no 
comment. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16806382I have decided to confirm my decision and uphold  this complaint. 
redress
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year 8.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs S that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs S 
compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1680638