K822xcomplaint
Ms C complains of the length of time it took Admiral  Insurance Company Ltd (Admiral) to 
repair her property after an escape of water claim, and of the lack of care taken by Admirals  
contractors whilst in her home.
background 
Ms C has a buildings insurance  policy with Admiral.  In December 2017, a large water  leak 
from the flat above  caused significant damage to her home, requiring  her to move  out of her 
home into temporary accommodation  whilst  repairs were undertaken.
The repairs  took much  longer  than expected, Ms C only returning home in September 2018. 
By this time, Ms C had raised a complaint with Admiral about  the delays, also complaining  
about being asked to contribute 50% towards  the replacement cost of some kitchen units.
Admiral upheld her complaint. It agreed  there had been delays, and poor communication,  
and offered to repay Ms Cs 50% contribution shed already paid. Ms C was unhappy with 
this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator upheld  Ms Cs complaint  and said 
Admiral should also pay £350 compensation to Ms C for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by the significant  delays she experienced. Admiral disagreed with this, saying its 
offer to repay Ms Cs 50% contribution to the new units was enough compensation for the 
delays she experienced. So, it asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I also uphold Ms Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
It isnt in question  Ms C experienced significant and unacceptable delays in the repairs to her 
home. Admiral appear to accept this. What  should  have been  a five or six-week job (as per 
contractor estimates) turned into a nine-month project  (from the date of claim to sign-off).  
Admiral say part of this was due to unexpected  problems with the roof joists  above Ms Cs 
home, which needed to be fixed by the owner of the upstairs property. Whilst this is true, it 
appears this work only delayed matters by approximately three weeks,  and so had a 
negligible effect  on the total repair timetable.
I now need to address  the facts behind  the replacement of the kitchen units. The base units  
in Ms Cs kitchen were water damaged  and disposed  of. But the wall units  werent damaged  
 these were removed and kept, ready  to be refitted  after the kitchen had been  dried-out and 
repaired. Ms Cs policy doesnt cover  the replacement of undamaged items. It says:
Matching items for buildings  claimsFor example, we will replace or repair a 
damaged kitchen cupboard only and not the whole kitchen unless it has also been 
damaged in the same event
So, its clear Ms Cs policy says Admiral didnt have  to cover the cost of replacing the 
undamaged wall units in her kitchen. These werent damaged  in the water  leak.  However, in 
this case, there were  significant delays between  Ms C choosing the replacement floor units 
for her kitchen  which exactly matched the wall units  and the time when Admirals  
contractor eventually tried to source  them. She chose which  units  she needed in February  
Ref: DRN177841422018, when stock was available, but scarce. By the time the contractor made enquiries to 
order them,  some three  months later, they were no longer available. During this period, it 
appears negligible  work  joist repairs  aside   had taken place. Ms C says there were 
periods of up to four or five weeks with no work being undertaken. Im satisfied this delay is 
likely to have helped  prevent Ms C from being able to secure the replacement kitchen units  
of her choice   that would  have matched her existing wall units.
Ms C was left with two choices, accept un-matched replacement floor units, or contribute to 
the cost of a completely new kitchen. She chose the second option, and I can see Admiral 
agreed to meet 50% of the cost of the new wall units. Ms C paid her 50% share  (pending the 
outcome of her complaint  which shed raised by this point) - just over £300. And later 
Admiral refunded this after Ms C complained.
Whilst I acknowledge Admiral refunded this as soon as Ms C raised  her complaint, I dont 
think it provides sufficient recompense for all the delays and distress she experienced. She 
was required to live away from her home for nearly  eight months. Admirals (or its 
contractors) communication with Ms C throughout was extremely poor  Ms C repeatedly 
had to chase for updates and appears to have initiated nearly  all communications in that 
period. Ive seen  photos that show Admirals  contractors didnt take sufficient care of Ms Cs 
home whilst the work was taking place  carpets that hadnt been covered before building 
materials were  stored on them. And, it was Admiral/its contractors fault matching floor units  
werent ordered when they could have been   causing extra cost to be incurred.
Our investigator suggested that extra compensation of £350 should be paid to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience Ms C experienced. I agree  extra compensation is warranted 
here, and agree £350 provides a fair reflection of the significant distress and inconvenience  
suffered by Ms C that Ive highlighted  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint  against  Admiral Insurance  
Company Ltd and require it to pay Ms C £350  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1778414