K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Shawbrook Bank  Limited overcharged him by £700  when he paid off 
his loan with them.
background
On 20 September  2018 Mr B contacted Shawbrook to pay off his loan. Due to an 
administrative error the bank took a payment of £2,991 instead of £2,291,  resulting in an 
overcharge of £700.
Mr B noticed  the error immediately and called  Shawbrook the same day. Shawbrook 
requested the refund  from the relevant department  but told Mr B that due to the time of day 
(early evening), this wouldnt be processed  the same day. 
Mr B phoned  back the next day (which was a Friday) and chased  the refund. Shawbrook  told 
him they would try and arrange a same day refund by faster payment, however later that day 
they explained to Mr B they hadnt  heard  back from their head office who had to authorise  
this transaction.
On Monday, Mr B phoned again.  Shawbrook  told him the refund was on its way but it might  
not be in his account that day. However,  later in the afternoon  Mr B confirmed in a phone call 
that he had now received  the £700  back.
Shawbrook offered Mr B compensation  of £50 for the inconvenience  caused. They also 
agreed to refund Mr B any overdraft charges he incurred on his bank account due to their 
mistake if he could  provide evidence  of these charges.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint and thought the compensation offered was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B disagreed and thinks the compensation should be increased  to £500. So the complaint  
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook have admitted they made  a mistake and apologised to Mr B. And they refunded 
the £700 within two working  days which I think was a reasonable timeframe.  They offered 
Mr B £50 for the troubles  they caused  him and to refund any bank charges he incurred due 
to their mistake if he provided relevant evidence.  
What I now have to decide  is whether the compensation they offered to Mr B is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I think it is. Ill explain  why.
I have listened  to the calls between Shawbrook  and Mr B. And on Friday, 21 September  
Mr B was told that Shawbrook would  try to get the refund  back  into his account that day. 
However, they were  honest about  the fact that there  was a possibility  that this might not 
happen and if that was the case he would receive the funds on Monday ( which he did).
Ref: DRN11246772I understand Mr B says being  overdrawn stressed him and that he couldnt  use the £700 for 
activities he had planned for the weekend with his family. However, he knew on Friday  that 
the money would  be back  in his account  by Monday  at the latest. I understand he would 
have been worried  about the overcharge when he noticed it, but he was told the same day 
the refund  had been requested and on Friday he knew it would be sorted  by Monday. 
Mr B also told us that the account the overpayment was taken from was separate to his 
current account and it was set up purely  to pay off this loan with Shawbrook.  Once the 
payment was taken  he was planning to close the account again. So he might  have  incurred 
charges on his overdrawn account  (Mr B mentioned around £0.70-£2.50 per day in interest), 
but the £700 werent funds that he was planning to use from this account.
I appreciate Mr B might have used funds from his current account  to pay off this debt which 
would have left him short  of funds.  But I dont think it would have been reasonable to pay off 
the £700 in arrears on Friday if he urgently needed this money for other things over the 
weekend. Especially as he knew the refund was being processed and would be in his 
account within a few days.
Mr B didnt provide  anything that suggests he suffered any financial loss other  than potential  
bank charges which I think Shawbrook should  refund if evidence is provided by Mr B. And I 
think Shawbrooks offer of £50 for the trouble and upset their mistake caused Mr B is 
reasonable in these  circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer Shawbrook Bank Limited made  is fair and reasonable. If not 
paid already I request Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Mr B £50. 
If Mr B provides  them  with evidence  that he incurred bank charges for the period between  
20-24 September 2018 that result from the overcharge of £700  I expect  Shawbrook  Bank 
Limited to cover these  charges as well. Mr B should provide evidence within eight weeks of 
the date of this decision  if he wants to do this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1124677