K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained shes being  asked to repay a debt on a Nationwide Building Society 
account in her name although she never authorised  the original disputed transactions.
background
In 2017 Miss R was looking to apply for a mortgage and was turned down. Advised to check 
her credit record,  she discovered there were four defaults linked to current accounts in her 
name. One of these  accounts was with Nationwide. She complained  to them.
Nationwide confirmed this account had been opened early in 2014. Then between 14 and 
28 July 2014 numerous transactions were  made  using the genuine  card and PIN at 
supermarkets. Nationwide had made numerous  demands for repayment to the address they 
held for Miss R, as well as calling  Miss R on her then (and still existing) phone number. They 
never got a response nor was the debt, which stood at over £2,078, repaid. Nationwide 
defaulted Miss Rs account on 6 November 2014.
Miss R explained shed fled the family home on mid-2014. She felt shed been  under the 
control of family and wanted to move  away. Shed never known what had happened with the 
accounts  as shed only taken one debit card with her for an account that shes  not 
complained about  nor was she aware of the disputed transactions and debt. Nationwide 
wouldnt cancel the debt as they believed Miss R must have known about the transactions.
Miss R brought  her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our investigator reviewed all the 
evidence, including  what Miss R said had taken place. He believed there was a possibility 
Miss R had authorised  the transactions as theyd all taken place in the area shed moved to. 
He thought she could have allowed someone  else to use her account  or may have been 
coerced into doing  so. He didnt ask Nationwide to write off the debt or remove  the default  as 
Miss R wished.
Miss R has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator.  Ill explain 
why. Ive also been in touch with Miss R, through her representative, to let her know what  I 
was thinking.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Ref: DRN14823392Certain other  circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here.  So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting  someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
In broad terms a bank  is expected to process  payments  and withdrawals that a customer  
authorises it to make,  in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations  and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
The key things I have  taken into account  include:
Miss R admits opening this Nationwide  account but did this on instruction from a 
family member but never used the account. The evidence shows that £2 was 
credited to the account on 29 May 2014.
According to Miss Rs evidence, she didnt move  out of the family  home  until after 
this. She didnt remember having this account  and left the account  details, including  
the card, behind.
After Miss R left home she used only one of the accounts in her name. The 
statements from this account  show numerous  credits between June and October 
2014. These total nearly £8,000. Miss R has told us these were payments  from her 
mother who was trying to keep her money secure from the person  in the family trying 
to control her.
Her statements  also show  Miss R went back to her family home on a few occasions 
after she moved south.  Shes told us she went back to see her mother, although  
shes also told us her mother was one of those trying to control her.
The disputed transactions and those  on two of her other  accounts  follow  a very 
similar pattern.  Im in no doubt that whoever used Miss Rs card  and overall I dont 
believe theres enough evidence to show she did  knew exactly what  they were 
doing. They  were  carrying out organised fraud of a nature  which  would limit their 
chance of being  caught. All the transactions were carried  out at different  branches of 
one supermarket in a specific geographical  area. None of these required 
authorisation by the card issuer,  Nationwide in this instance.
I dont dispute  Miss Rs evidence that she left her card and account details behind when she 
moved, nor that she only opened this account under  duress. Although the transactions  
happened in the south  after Miss R also moved south, I dont believe the organised nature of 
these suggest  that Miss R would have known or authorised these.
However its not just enough to decide whether  Miss R authorised these transactions, I also 
need to consider whether  she may have benefitted from what  happened.  I can see nearly 
£8,000 was paid into one of Miss Rs bank accounts   the one that she used. Miss R has 
told us this cash came from her mother and she was keeping it safe for her. But theres no 
evidence to show Miss R paid this money back to her mother  which  Id have expected.  I 
cant ignore the possibility  that her mother paid her this money as proceeds  from the fraud 
which is what I believe may have  happened.
I should stress that I dont believe Miss R necessarily knew about  the fraud but overall  I think  
the evidence shows she could have unknowingly benefitted from it.
Ref: DRN14823393The debt on Miss Rs Nationwide account  was £2,078.  If I was to ask Nationwide  to refund 
her, this means  she could potentially benefit  twice from this fraud so I dont think  its fair or 
reasonable to ask Nationwide to do this. Im also not going  to ask Nationwide  to remove the 
default. Because of the date this was lodged, this will now have  been  removed automatically 
from Miss Rs credit  record  as more than six years  has passed.
This must have been a very distressing time for Miss R and Im only sorry that I cant assist 
her further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Rs complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1482339