K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limiteds agent carried  out poor repairs  to his 
windscreen when  he claimed under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr R made  a claim to his insurer Tesco to have  repairs carried out to his windscreen. In July 
2018 an agent of Tescos  carried  out the repairs. 
Mr R complained about the standard of the repairs. But Tesco  didnt uphold  his complaint. 
The agent  told Tesco  it had CCTV footage which showed that Mr R went straight to his car 
on arrival  and before  letting staff know he was there. The footage  showed that Mr R applied 
force to the car windscreen. Tesco said it therefore  couldnt hold the agent  responsible  for 
the costs of rectifying any damage Mr R said was caused by the repairs.
Tesco said if Mr R had let a member  of staff know he was unhappy with the repairs before 
pulling at the trim of the windscreen, it would have considered whether  the work  carried  out 
was sub standard.  But because  Mr R tampered with the windscreen,  it said it couldnt prove 
that the work  carried out had been of poor quality. 
Our investigator thought Tesco had acted reasonably. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he has proof all three trims on the windscreen have been 
damaged and cant be refitted. Our investigator asked Mr R to provide any proof he had to 
show the trims were  damaged before Mr R tampered with the windscreen. 
Mr R said he never  applied  force. One of the trims  came off in his hand  the trim had only 
been stuck on with silicone and hadnt  had time to set. He said a local dealer has told him 
that all three  trims were all damaged  and therefore  not fitted correctly.
In July 2019 Mr R said he intended to pay for the rectification repairs which  would cost him 
£690. Mr R expects Tesco to reimburse  him in full for this cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it.
Tescos notes show that the agent  viewed CCTV footage which showed Mr R pull the trim 
out of place. The agent said that they had put clips in place which   had they been  allowed 
to cure  would have  been fine. In their view, Mr Rs tampering caused damage to the trim. 
The agent  said that they had been able to remove the clips and trim without causing any 
damage in order  to carry out the repair. If Mr R was unhappy with the repairs, he could have 
let them  know without  applying  force to the windscreen trim.
The notes also show that Mr R said he could see that the repairs  hadnt  been carried out 
correctly. He said he could obtain a report from a dealership garage to prove this. Tesco told 
Mr R it would consider the report. 
Ref: DRN19147492Based on what Ive seen,  I think the way Tesco dealt with Mr Rs complaint was reasonable. 
I realise Mr R will be disappointed. But he hasnt provided any evidence to persuade me that 
the repairs to the windscreen werent  carried out properly by Tescos agent. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1914749