K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Provident Personal Credit Limited  Provident irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan Provident provided to Mr H on 10 July 2017  for 
£700. The loan was due to be repaid in 12 instalments of £116.20.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint and thought  that Provident would have seen that 
Mr H had a high level of indebtedness and that it was likely he had problems  managing his 
money. Provident disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Provident was required to establish  whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN14332372Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr H, Provident says it checked Mr Hs monthly income and living  
expenses. Mr H declared his monthly  income  as being £2,230 and his monthly expenses as 
£1,200. Provident says it added a buffer of £65 to Mr Hs declared expenses.
Provident also searched Mr Hs credit file and Mr H has provided  a copy  of his credit  report 
and from what I can see, Mr H had two defaults recorded on his file in 2016 and he was in 
arrears and payment  arrangements with at least five other  creditors. And in May 2017  two 
months before this loan, Mr H entered a debt management plan on another  account.
The partial credit search results from Provident show  in summary that it checked Mr Hs IVA 
and bankruptcy  status and it found that Mr H was in a debt management  plan.
Given the amount  of adverse information on Mr H credit  file, which  I think Provident likely 
saw, it shouldve seen  that lending to Mr H in these circumstances was increasing  his 
indebtedness. Mr H had to repay several other debts which took up most of his income. 
Also, I think Provident should have been  concerned  that Mr H had problems  managing his 
money and it shouldnt have lent to him.
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
I understand theres still an outstanding balance on the loan. So Provident should rework 
the loan to remove all interest and charges and to treat any payments made as if they were 
payments towards  the principal. If Mr H has already paid Provident more  than £700,  it will 
need to refund any amount above  this adding 8% simple interest per year from when Mr H 
made the overpayments  until the date of settlement.
If Mr H has paid less than £700, I remind Provident should treat him positively and 
sympathetically in relation  to any repayment  plan.
Provident should also remove any adverse information it has recorded about the loan 
from Mr Hs credit history   but it only needs to do this once the loan has been  repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident  must give Mr 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN14332373my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint.  Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1433237