K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the service they received from Lansdown Financial Ltd 
(LFL). Specifically, theyre  unhappy  that they have  to pay it a fee when they had cancelled  
their contract.
background
Mr and Mrs H had several timeshare properties abroad.  In October  2017  Mr and Mrs H 
instructed LFL to make claims  on their behalf  to their finance provider about  the 
misrepresentation of the timeshare agreements. This was after a failed attempt by a law firm 
that Mr and Mrs H had instructed to make claims against the timeshare providers.
The contract Mr and Mrs H signed  with LFL was on a no-win no-fee basis. The contract  said 
that LFL would charge  commission of 30% plus VAT on the total amount of compensation 
Mr and Mrs H receive  from the finance provider.  The contract also included  a right to cancel 
after 12 months. But this term did say that if Mr and Mrs H later received compensation after 
they had cancelled, the fee would still be payable.
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their contract  after 12 months. They explained they felt that the 
complaint process  was taking too long and during this time they were having  to make 
repayments to the loans  they took for the timeshares.  LFL accepted their cancellation but 
made it clear  that it wasnt responsible for the delays, and that the fee would still be due if 
their claim was successful. Mr and Mrs H complained.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He explained that Mr and Mrs H 
signed the agreement which made it clear that a fee of 30% plus VAT would  be chargeable if 
the claim was successful - even  if they cancelled after 12 months. The investigator also 
explained that the delays  in getting a response  to Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt due to LFL. 
There were delays at the Financial Ombudsman Service  where the complaint was waiting 
for a decision  which is why it took longer than expected. This was outside of LFLs  control.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They explained they felt they had done a lot of the chasing to get 
the result. And they didnt feel it was fair for a fee to be charged on money  that would repay 
their mortgage. LFL sent Mr and Mrs H an interim invoice  for its fee on part of the 
compensation, and later sent the fee for the additional amount. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  
that two invoices were  raised and sent  which is being considered  by our investigator as a 
separate complaint.
As Mr and Mrs H disagreed with having  to pay the full fee after they cancelled the contract, 
they asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So, it has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs H instructed  LFL to act on their behalf  for any claim made to a finance provider 
for the misrepresentation of their timeshares. I can see that Mr and Mrs H signed  the letter of 
authority instructing LFL and Ive not seen anything to suggest  they had no other  choice. I do 
Ref: DRN12558142understand that this claim came about  after Mr and Mrs H had instructed a law firm to make 
a claim abroad.  But Mr and Mrs H still made the decision to instruct  LFL.
When they signed the letter of authority, Mr and Mrs H accepted that LFL would act on a no-
win no-fee basis. This means  that if the claim was unsuccessful, LFL would have  done  the 
work for free. But if the claim was successful  LFL would take 30% plus VAT of the 
compensation  regardless  of whether the value of the work was worth more  or less than 
this. This is the risk all parties take when entering into a contract  like this.
The contract Mr and Mrs H signed  gave them a chance to cancel the contract  after 12 
months. Specifically,  the term says:
6.2 You may end this agreement by email notice  to us:
a) at any time before the Start Date (if this is a future date); or
b) if 12 months have  passed since the Start  Date without  a settlement or compensation 
award by the FO;
You will still have to pay our fee if you have  received, or later receive, a compensation 
payment in connection with our services.
Mr and Mrs H decided to cancel the contract in February 2019   more than 12 months  since 
the start of the contract and before any compensation had been awarded.  LFL accepted this 
and cancelled the agreement. But it told Mr and Mrs H that the fee would still be payable  if 
there was compensation awarded  from the claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs H experienced delays waiting for an answer  to their claim  first 
with the finance provider  and then from the Financial  Ombudsman Service.  I understand that 
this wouldve  been frustrating for Mr and Mrs H, but this wasnt something  that LFL was 
responsible for. It submitted its claim to the finance provider, and when it didnt get a 
response, it referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ive not seen 
anything to show that LFL caused any delays  or provided a poor service whilst it was waiting  
for a response from the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
Mr and Mrs Hs claims  were upheld by the Financial Ombudsman Service  in 2019. At this 
point, LFL invoiced them for a fee. I understand that after their agreement ended  with LFL, 
Mr and Mrs H had to liaise directly with the Financial  Ombudsman  Service. And they feel 
they had to chase their complaint. But the successful claim was made by LFL and was a 
result of the work that LFL did when it submitted the claim. So, I dont think its unfair for it to 
have charged the fee on the compensation Mr and Mrs H were awarded.
I understand that some of the compensation was used to repay  the mortgage Mr and Mrs H 
took for these timeshares.  But the terms of the agreement say LFL would charge 30% plus 
VAT on the gross amount of any compensation you actually receive . And I think  Mr and 
Mrs H wouldve understood  this would be for the total amount of compensation  they were  
awarded. As theyve  received around  £127,000   LFL is entitled to charge its 30% fee plus 
VAT on this amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN12558143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1255814