K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint against ReAssure Limited  is about his savings endowment policy.
background
Mr J took out an endowment policy in 1975  with Guardian Assurance. It was a long term 
savings plan that would pay out a benefit  either on Mr Js death, or when  the policy matured. 
Mr J paid a monthly premium, which was initially set at £12. The policy  matured in 2018  with 
a value of about £23,000. ReAssure Limited,  who are the responsible  business,  deducted  
about £2,770 for tax.
Mr J complained about the tax deduction  that ReAssure made when his policy matured. 
He said it wasnt made  clear that tax would be charged when he took the policy out in 1975. 
If it had been, Mr J said he wouldnt have  taken out the policy in the first place.
ReAssure said the tax liability was made clear in the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
But on reviewing Mr Js complaint, they decided hed been mis-sold the endowment.  
They said Mr Js age at the time,  and the risks associated with the policy,  made it an 
unsuitable investment  for him. 
However, ReAssure said Mr J hadnt suffered a financial loss. They  calculated  how much  
Mr J would receive if they refunded all the premiums hed paid and added  interest at the 
Bank of England  rate plus 1%. They worked  this out to be less than the amount Mr J 
received when the policy matured. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think ReAssure needed to do 
anything more. Mr J disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure accept that the policy was mis-sold  to Mr J. In a situation like this, wed expect 
ReAssure to put Mr J as close to the position hed probably now be in if hed not been given 
incorrect advice. 
As Ive noted above, Mr J paid a monthly  premium for many years. ReAssure accept there would  
have been other, more  appropriate products that would have enabled  him to make regular 
savings for the future. To assess what would be fair compensation, they calculated  the total value 
of all the premiums Mr J paid and added interest at the Bank of England rate plus 1%.
Its not possible to say exactly what Mr J would have done with his money if he hadnt put it 
in the endowment policy. But ReAssures  approach  assumes he would have wanted  to 
achieve a reasonable  return on his savings without risking any of his capital. And in the 
circumstances of this case,  I think thats  fair. 
ReAssures calculation gave a figure  of £19,467.22  which  was less than the amount  Mr J 
received when his policy  matured. In other  words,  although Mr J was mis-sold his policy,  he 
didnt lose out financially  by investing in it. So I agree that ReAssure  dont need  to 
compensate Mr J.
Ref: DRN10669132Ive also looked  at what Mr J said about  the tax paid when his policy  matured. Mr J took out 
the plan more than 40 years  ago and I cant be sure what  was said at the time.  But Ive seen 
a copy of the policy schedule, and it made clear that tax would be deducted from the 
maturity value. So I dont  think ReAssure have done anything  wrong  by doing so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
against ReAssure  Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1066913