K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit  (SNC))  lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr H was given a SafetyNet credit  facility in November 2017.  This was a running  credit 
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit provided to Mr H in November  2017 was £350.  SNC has told us the 
limit had increased to £410 by May 2018.  It seems  Mr H had some  financial difficulties  
because when he referred his complaint to this service, there was an outstanding balance on 
the facility, that needed to be repaid. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Hs complaint. She thought the facility  shouldnt have 
been given to him as the facilitys minimum payments were unaffordable  for him because his 
expenditure exceeded his income. 
SNC didnt  agree with the assessment. SNC says that based on their review and 
calculations Mr H had a disposable income of nearly £600 per month. So, it considers that 
the facility was affordable. 
Mr H hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
the regulations  in place when Mr H was given the SafetyNet facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr H this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory 
rules in place at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC)  section 
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an  open-
end agreement (like Mr Hs Safety Net facility) , to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
Ref: DRN16857292CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
The guidance didnt  require SNC  to carry out compulsory checks, but it did require its checks  
to be proportionate. And any checks  had to consider a number of different things, such  as 
how much  was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply,  the 
lender had to gather  enough information  so that it could make  an informed decision on the 
lending. 
SNC was also required  to establish whether Mr H could sustainably  make his repayments   
not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr H could sustainably  
make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. There  may be 
situations for example where consumers have shown signs of financial difficulty, calling into 
question their ability to sustain repayments. CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what 
financial difficulties (which, of course, would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, 
any repayment difficulties) may look like: 
The following matters,  among others,  of which a firm is aware or ought  reasonably  to be 
aware, may indicate  that a customer is in financial difficulties;
(1) consecutively failing  to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store  
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where there  
is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such  as, utility bills), the customer  having to 
borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to meet  repayments 
of debts by the disposal  of assets  or security;
(5) consecutively failing  to meet repayments  when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management  plan or other debt solution or to seeking debt 
counselling.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to do before 
agreeing to Mr Hs SafetyNet facility. 
Ref: DRN16857293what happened when  the facility was granted
SNC says it reviewed Mr Hs bank transaction data prior to the facility being approved. SNC 
has provided a copy  of the statements  it appears to have looked  at which  cover  a period of 
90 days before the facility  was approved. It considered what  it saw in the bank statements 
together with the results of the credit checks. Having done so, SNC was satisfied Mr H 
wasnt having trouble meeting his existing  commitments  and would be able to maintain the 
facility he was offered.
Looking at Mr Hs statements I can see his monthly  salary was around £1,338 to £1,367. 
SNC has suggested Mr Hs salary was almost  £1,600 but this isnt reflected in the 
information it has provided. Ive also not seen other regular income that I think  SNC could 
reasonably rely on. SNC appears to have  considered two payments into Mr Hs account  as 
other income. The payments are significantly different  and around  six weeks  apart. So, I 
dont think they can reasonably be considered as a regular income particularly when one of 
the payments  seems  to have been  paid back by Mr H.  
I can also see that Mr H appears to have been  reliant on other short-term lenders in order  to 
manage his money.  He made payments to three short-term lenders, at the beginning and at 
the end of October 2017, of around  £280 and £346 respectively. The summary of the credit 
results SNC has provided indicate that Mr H had previously used short  term loans and show 
a default balance, which suggests hed experienced some repayment difficulties. From 
Mr Hs own bank statements, I can also see he continued to make  repayments to short-term  
lenders after the facility  was granted. Indicating to me that Mr H was having  problems  
managing his money.   
From what  I can see, Mr H had regular monthly  expenditure  of around £1,150, which  is in 
line with SNCs own calculation of around  £1,136. I agree with our adjudicator  therefore  that 
its unlikely Mr H was able to afford  any repayments  when  also considering his apparent 
reliance on short term loans and an income around £1,338 to £1,367.  
In addition to this, Mr Hs statements  show quite a significant number of returned  direct 
debits  10 in the period 2 October 2017  to 7 November 2017. I think this was a clear 
indication that Mr H was in financial difficulties as he was unable to meet  his other 
repayments when  they were  due. Which, as CONC 1.3 (4) points  out, is a sign that a 
customer could be having financial difficulties. 
Looking at all of this together, I think that Mr Hs circumstances suggested that he was 
struggling to maintain control of his finances.  I think this is something that SNC ought  
reasonably to have  been  aware of through his bank statements. As a result, there was a 
clear risk that the facility wasnt going to be repaid  in an affordable  and sustainable manner.  
I dont think therefore  that SNC should have  granted the facility. 
How to put things right
To put things right for Mr H, SNC should:
remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Hs facility from the outset of 
the facility; 
Ref: DRN16857294add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr H owes, then the remainder of the refund should  
then be paid directly  to Mr H.
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr H should try and come to a mutually agreeable  repayment  plan in order to 
repay what  is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr H fairly;    
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit  file from the outset of the 
facility. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1685729