K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They say theyve been 
paying the standard variable rate (SVR) since 2010,  which has resulted in them being 
overcharged interest. They say Santander should  have offered them lower interest rates 
which meant they would  have  been able to pay more to reduce the capital.
background
Mr and Mrs C took their mortgage out some years ago. Part was interest only and part was 
on a repayment  basis. They  were on an initial fixed rate which expired in 2010. Around  the 
same time, Mrs C was unfortunately unwell and they experienced some financial difficulty. 
The mortgage went into arrears, and stayed in arrears for most of the next five years. 
During this time, the mortgage  was converted to wholly interest only as a temporary 
concession, before reverting back to part and part in 2014.
In 2015, Mr and Mrs Cs son paid a lump sum which cleared the arrears  and paid off the 
repayment element,  leaving  only the interest  only element. The term of this borrowing 
expires in 2022.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs C called Santander  to enquire about adding  their son to the mortgage 
and making other changes. They didnt proceed  with an application.
In 2018, they contacted Santander again to apply for further borrowing, conversion to 
repayment and to add their son. Santander refused  the applications saying it would be 
unaffordable.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs C applied to extend the term of the mortgage. Santander agreed to 
extend it for a further seven years. It also granted them  a new interest rate product which  
significantly reduced their monthly  payments.
Mr and Mrs C complained. They  said they should have been offered a new rate years  
before. If that had been done, the mortgage would have been more  affordable   and they 
could have paid off some of the capital, instead  of struggling to pay the interest.
Santander said in its final response that it could have told Mr and Mrs C about new rates in 
2018. It offered  £100 compensation for not doing  so. Separately, it also offered £100  for 
delays in the term extension application.
When Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us, Santander said the final response was 
wrong. There was no obligation for it to pro-actively offer a new rate or invite Mr and Mrs C 
to apply for one. It was for them to ask, and they hadnt done so. However,  it would honour 
the £200 compensation offer.
Our investigator thought Santander could  have done more to draw new rates to their 
attention, and said that if it had done so they would have applied. So she said Santander 
should refund the difference between a rate they could have had and the SVR between  
November 2018  and November 2019. Santander didnt agree, so the complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.
Ref: DRN18345562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For much  of the period covered by this complaint, Santander is right  there was no 
obligation for it to pro-actively invite  Mr and Mrs C to apply for new interest rates.  It was 
required to tell them when  their old rate expired and their payments changed, and it did that. 
And it told them in the leaflets  accompanying  their annual statements  that they could get in 
touch if they wanted to discuss new rates.
In any case, Santander doesnt  generally offer new rates to customers in arrears, as Mr and 
Mrs C were for much of the period up to 2015. So even if they had asked for a new rate at 
this time, its likely it would have been refused.
After 2015, when the arrears were cleared, theres  no evidence  that Mr and Mrs C asked for 
a new rate until November 2019 when the term was extended.
In 2016, they made an initial enquiry but didnt pursue it. As there were no detailed 
discussions, I dont  think Santander could have  been expected to mention  new interest rates  
at this time.
Since then,  there have  wider developments in the mortgage market. There  have been 
increasing concerns  about customers paying  more  than they need  to because they are on 
SVR rather than an interest rate product.
In 2018 the major lenders  including Santander  agreed a voluntary protocol to contact 
customers in this position and invite them to apply for rates.  This is something the regulator 
and others  have been urging lenders to do too. And in my view its now good industry 
practice for lenders to do this, even if its still not strictly a regulatory requirement  to do so. 
My view of good industry practice is something I can take into account in deciding whats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So when Mr and Mrs C spoke to Santander  in late 2018, good industry practice  was 
developing in this area.
And Ive also considered  the nature of the discussions Mr and Mrs C were  having with 
Santander at this time, and their wider  objectives.
I think its clear  that Mr and Mrs C were concerned about the impending  end of their 
mortgage term and how they would repay it  and that the interest  rate they were paying left 
them little leeway to pay down the capital.
I think Santander had an opportunity at this point to recognise that Mr and Mrs C would 
benefit from a lower interest  rate and to suggest  that they might  want  to consider applying  for 
one. It had enough information to know that. It had an obligation to treat them fairly, taking 
into account their best interests, and communicate  with them clearly and fairly. It had agreed 
to contact its customers on SVR to draw new products to their attention   and this was a 
good chance to do so in this particular case.
I dont think the comments Santander  has made about the restrictions its chosen to place on 
the job roles of the people they spoke  to overrides its wider obligations to act fairly taking 
Ref: DRN18345563into account the best interests of its customers. Nor do I think  it was enough  for Santander  to 
sit back and wait for them to apply for a new rate  or that directing them  to a mortgage 
broker was enough.
I think that if Santander had drawn  Mr and Mrs Cs attention to new interest rate products  
that might  have been available  to them, they would  have applied. Acting fairly, thats what  it 
ought in my view to have  done. And I see no reason why such an application wouldnt have 
been granted. Alternatively, Santander could have invited them to apply for its follow on rate 
rather than SVR.
I think that a fair resolution to this complaint  is for Santander to put Mr and Mrs C back  in the 
position they would have  been had that happened. I cant be certain now what  rate they 
would have chosen at the time. And its also worth noting that they did take a new rate in 
November 2019   and if I tell Santander  to re-work the account to give them  a fixed rate 
from 2018, that would have to be unwound  too.
However, I can see that Santander had a tracker rate of 1.64% available. Theres  no early  
repayment charge  with that rate. So it can be applied from November 2018 to November  
2019, with the mortgage  then reverting to the rate Mr and Mrs C selected from November 
2019.
Theres a £999  product  fee associated with this tracker rate. However, as Ive said I dont 
know what rate Mr and Mrs C would actually have chosen had they had the chance. In 2019, 
they chose a fee-free fixed  rate. They may well have  done the same in 2018.  Ive selected 
the tracker rate with fee for convenience to tie in with the rate they did end up taking,  and 
because its comparable with fixed rates  at the time, not because  Im persuaded thats the 
specific rate they would have selected. In the circumstances I think the £999 product fee on 
the tracker should be waived as part of the mortgage re-work.
Re-working the mortgage will result in overpayments each  month. Santander should give 
Mr and Mrs C the option  of having the overpayments refunded to them,  or used  to reduce 
the mortgage balance. Finally, I think the offer of £200 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Apply the 1.64% tracker rate to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage from the month following 
the call with Santander in November 2018,  waiving the £999 product  fee. The tracker 
rate should  run until the date Mr and Mrs Cs term extension and product switch 
came into effect  in 2019;
Give Mr and Mrs C the option  of either having the resulting overpayments refunded 
to them,  or used to reduce the mortgage  balance month by month;
If Mr and Mrs C elect  to have them refunded, Santander should add simple annual  
interest of 8%* to each overpayment,  running  from the date of payment to date of 
refund;
Pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Ref: DRN18345564Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If Santander considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element  of my award it may 
do so but it should give Mr and Mrs C the necessary  paperwork,  if they ask for it, so they can reclaim 
any tax from HMRC if theyre entitled  to do so.
Ref: DRN1834556