K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of himself  and Mrs B that Esure Insurance Limited  didnt settle 
their buildings insurance claim for roof tiles being  damaged during a storm.
 
background
Mrs and Mrs B had a buildings insurance policy  for their home with Esure. In February 2019 
there was a dry storm in the region  of Mr and Mrs Bs house.  
Mr B noticed  damage to his facias and guttering following the storm and so employed a 
roofer to fix them. Whilst fixing the roof, the roofer noticed that there was damage to the roof 
tiles - that they were lifting - at the rear of the property. 
Mr B made a claim on his buildings insurance  to Esure stating that the storm had damaged 
the roof tiles of his house which  required replacing.  
Esure sent a surveyor  to Mr Bs property  in order to assess the damage.  The surveyor 
produced a report stating  that the damage was down to a natural breakdown of materials in 
the roof tiles. So, it said the damage  was not caused by the storm or any other insured 
event. The surveyor went on to say that their opinion  was that the tiles showed  signs of heat 
damage causing cupping or lipping to the edges  of the tiles. He referred to an article 
written by a roof tile consultancy firm which he said showed similar damage.
Esure declined Mr Bs claim  based on the surveyors  report indicating  the damage  was 
caused by wear and tear  which was not covered  by Mr Bs policy.  
Mr B was unhappy with the surveyors assessment of the damage and so complained to 
Esure saying that the decision to decline his claim was wrong. Esure said that Mr Bs policy 
only covered damage caused by specified  insured  events which  were  listed  in his policy.  
Esure said that the surveyors report shows the damage did not seem  consistent with a one-
off storm event. So, it was Mr Bs responsibility to show that the damage was more  likely 
than not caused by a storm. Esure went on to say that it was not the surveyors responsibility 
to diagnose the cause  of the damage, but simply to confirm if the damage  was caused by an 
insured event. Esure said it would not change its decision to decline the claim.
Mr B remained unhappy  so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that they could 
see that a storm had occurred however they felt Esure acted fairly in assessing the claim.
In response Mr B approached his roofer who supplied a witness  statement. Mr B also sent a 
video and photos of the roof to the roof tile consultancy firm which  had written the article  
supplied by Esure. They supplied a letter stating they didnt feel that the damage in the video 
was caused by heat, they believed it was caused  by high winds  in a storm.  
Esure reviewed the new evidence and said that it did not change  its mind as it still placed 
more weight on the surveyors report. Our investigator also wasnt  persuaded that the 
additional documents changed their opinion. Mr B remained unhappy  and so the case has 
been passed onto me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN11074212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess whether Esure has reasonably  declined  Mr Bs insurance claim, 
based on the evidence available.
Esure originally relied  on the surveyors report to decline the claim. Following Mr Bs 
complaint to us, he submitted two further  letters to Esure in order to try and evidence that a 
storm caused the damage. These were a statement from his roofer  and a letter from a roof 
tile consultant.
The statement  supplied from the roofer doesnt  say that the damage  was caused by a storm, 
it simply states that there  was no cupping or curling  of the tiles. So, although the builder 
disputes the cause of the damage, the letter does not go as far as to say that a storm was 
the cause of damage. So, I think Esure were right to say this letter  is not adequate evidence  
that the roof was damage  by a storm.
I can see why Mr B relies heavily on the letter from the roof tile consultants. Esure 
questioned the qualifications  of the author but I am satisfied that they do have experience  in 
this field. And Esure had already relied on an article  from this company in the surveyors  
report. 
However, the report was written using photographs and videos of the roof taken by Mr B 
after the storm event.  And, the videos and photos  only show  a portion of the roof. Given the 
minimal evidence available to them - as they did not carry out a physical inspection  of the 
whole roof and had not inspected it prior to the storm.  The roof tile consultants say the tiles 
may have  bent under pressure during a storm. But Esure have said it was not persuaded 
that this was caused during a one-off  storm event. And think its more  likely this damage was 
caused gradually over time in line with their surveyors opinion.  As the report was only 
compiled using photographic evidence from after the storm, I can see why Esure  find it 
difficult to rely on the report as persuasive  evidence that the roof had no issues  or damage 
prior to the storm event. And that it was the storm that caused  the damage.
 
Esure used a surveyor who conducted  a physical inspection of the whole roof, aided by the 
fact Mr B had already  installed scaffolding for access. Having looked  at the surveyors 
website they do appear to be suitably qualified to carry out this type of work. Im satisfied 
that they present suitable and reliable evidence for this case.  I have seen evidence in both 
the photos in the surveyors report and Mr Bs videos that several tiles have  curled up on the 
edges. So, I can see that the surveyors report is based on some physical evidence.  
Esure have said that it placed more weight  on the surveyors findings, as it was based on a 
physical inspection of the whole roof rather than the roof tile consultants who were limited  to 
photographs and videos.  I think this argument  is fair. I wouldnt expect Esure to discount the 
tile consultants report entirely however I do find it reasonable of Esure  to place more  weight  
on a physical inspection  of the roof. Esure have  said that as Mr B was unable to 
demonstrate that the damage  was caused by an insured event, it declined his claim.
I think Esure have shown  that it did assess the new evidence supplied  to them by Mr B. And, 
it has adequately  shown its reasoning of why it placed more  weight  and relied on the 
surveyors report over the new evidence. 
Ref: DRN11074213I can appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B but I dont think  he has been  
able to sufficiently  evidence that the storm was the main cause of damage to his roof. Or, 
that the damage was caused  by any other  insured event. Therefore, I think Esure  have acted 
fairly and reasonably in assessing  his claim.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1107421