K821x#15complaint
Mr S has said TSB Bank plcs IT issues had an impact on him.
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Mr S says this meant he had issues  
logging into his online banking  and the mobile app. This affected Mr S because  he is        
self-employed and has a business account  with TSB. Because of the IT issues, he couldnt 
pay his sub-contractors  or transfer  money between his accounts. 
Mr S says the online issues went on for around four months and that he had to go to a 
branch between five and ten times. Because of this he lost time he couldve spent working 
on his business.  When asked, Mr S was unable to evidence any specific lost income due to 
the IT issues.
TSB offered Mr S £100 for the ongoing IT issues he had been having, as well as £3 for any 
financial losses he had incurred. Mr S disagreed  with this and brought  the complaint to our 
service. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and felt £150 compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience the matter  had on Mr S was fair in the circumstances.  Mr S didnt 
feel this was enough. He said his wife had a similar  complaint that wasnt  as serious as his, 
because he had a business account  whereas  she had personal accounts.  As his wife was 
awarded £400, he wanted a figure  in excess of that amount.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that £150  compensation is a fair reflection of the impact  the IT 
issues have had on Mr S. 
The IT issues  began over the weekend of the 21st and 22nd of April in 2018.  Looking at the 
statements of Mr Ss business account, I can see he usually made online faster  payments  
roughly once a week and sometimes  a little more regularly than that. In the two weeks  
following the IT issues, Mr S made a number of faster payments in branch that came out of 
the account over two days. Its likely Mr S visited a branch  on each separate day to make the 
faster payments.  Though these were on a Friday and a Monday, so theres a possibility the 
faster payments  were all sent on the Friday but some  were delayed over the weekend  and 
came out the following  Monday.
Mr S was able to make faster payments online again  from the 8th of May at the latest. So it 
looks like Mr S was without online  access for two weeks.  And he had to visit a branch once 
or twice  to make the necessary faster payments within a branch. 
I appreciate Mr S has said this was inconvenient  for him, especially as its not easy to reach  
a branch as he works in a rural area. Thankfully, Mr S was able to make the necessary 
payments he needed  to, and he was able to successfully make faster payments online again 
Ref: DRN19223442as is his preference  after two weeks. Though hes said he did continue  to have some issues  
logging on as the system  wasnt  always  reliable  and I can understand  this must have been 
frustrating. 
Mr S has mentioned he was unable  to work  while he was visiting branches, but hasnt been 
able to confirm  any specific  losses. Hes also said that his diary  can change  overnight due to 
changes in the weather, because of the type of work  he does. In order for me to consider 
losses, I would need to see that Mr S has lost out on work that he wasnt  able to do any 
another time, because of TSBs errors.  For example,  this could be a specific job that couldnt 
be rescheduled. As Mr S hasnt been  able to provide anything showing loss of specific 
income, I havent been able to consider this further.    
Mr S has mentioned that his wife received £400 for her complaint about  the IT issues.  Hes 
said she had two current accounts, whereas he has two currents and a business  account. 
Hes also said his wifes complaint was answered  in a matter  of months, whereas TSB didnt 
respond to his complaint for a year. So he wants an offer in excess  of £400. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels a comparable offer to his wife would be fair in the circumstances. 
But its my role to assess a case based  on its individual  merits, which  is what  Ive done in   
Mr S case. I dont know the specifics of his wifes complaint and I dont know  how TSB came 
to its offer of £400 for her particular case.  But having  looked  at the circumstances of Mr S 
case, and considering everything I have available to me, I think the offer already suggested 
of £150 is a fair amount.  
what the business needs  to do
TSB now needs to pay Mr S £150 compensation for the impact the issues have had on him. 
I understand Mr S had a complaint with TSB about further IT issues he had later on in 2018 
and this is separate to that complaint. So TSB should not deduct any redress  awarded for 
the later complaint from this figure.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and agree  with the recommendation of £150  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused. TSB Bank plc should now pay Mr S £150 if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1922344