K820x#14complaint
Mr F doesnt think Bank of Scotland  plc has paid him fair compensation following his 
complaint about  the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 April 2020.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I dont 
think Bank of Scotland needs  to pay Mr F any further compensation  unless Mr F provides  
evidence that shows he incurred two failed debit fees that he would not have incurred if he 
hadnt had PPI.
Bank of Scotland hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Mr F disagrees with my provisional decision.  Below, Ive summarised and addressed the 
points hes made.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to my provisional decision,  Mr F:
says his complaint  was that Bank of Scotland hasnt put him in the position  he would 
have been in had he not taken  out the policy, which is what it said the compensation 
was supposed  to do in its letter dated 18 February 2019  put simply, he says 
Bank of Scotland hasnt done  what it said it would  do;
says the concept  of fairness is inherently  subjective  and that the test in this case  
should be whether  or not the compensation puts him in the positon he would have 
been in had he not taken  out the policy; and,
notes that, in accordance with DISP 3.6.1  R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook, Im to determine this complaint  by  reference to what is, in [my] 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case . Mr F added the 
emphasis, and says the most  important consideration in this case is that 
Bank of Scotland said the offer would  put him in the position  he would have been in 
had he not taken out the policy, and he says it doesnt.
Mr F then explains why he thinks  Bank of Scotland should pay him more  compensation 
under the headings: Fees;  Incidental costs; Inconvenience and upset; Interest; and, Redress  
split.
First, Mr F may think fairness as a concept  is too subjective, but its clear  from DISP 3.6.1 R 
and section 228(2)  of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)  that I must 
determine this complaint  by reference  to what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. I have, of course,  taken into account what the offer letters  says.  
But Ive also taken into account the context  in which the offer was made, the relevant law 
and regulations, the FCAs rules, guidance  and standards, and Mr Fs conduct.
Ref: DRN11985522Second, the FCA writes  the rules for financial businesses and DISP App 3 of its Handbook 
tells businesses how to put things right if they mis-sold PPI. DISP App 3.7.2 E says the 
business should, as far as practicable,  put the complainant in the position he would have  
been if he had not bought any [PPI]. (Bank of Scotland used almost identical language  in its 
offer letter, for obvious reasons.) DISP App 3.7.3 E explains whats  required to do this:
In such cases the [business] should  pay to the complainant a sum equal  to the total 
amount paid by the complainant in respect of the [PPI] including  historic interest 
where relevant  (plus  simple interest on that amount).
Historic interest isnt relevant in this case  its only relevant  for single  premium  PPI policies 
and PPI policies  sold with credit cards.
By refunding the PPI premiums Mr F paid with simple interest, Bank of Scotland has done 
what the FCA says it should do to put the complainant in the position he would have been  if 
he had not bought any [PPI].
That doesnt  mean I havent carefully  considered what Mr F has said about why he thinks he 
should receive more  compensation.  Below, Ive used the same headings as Mr F to address 
the points hes made.
Fees: Mr F has sent me evidence to show he was charged a failed debit fee on 
6 April 1992 and 6 April 1994.  The account  was used  solely  to pay his PPI premiums. 
Im therefore satisfied that if he hadnt  had PPI, he wouldnt have incurred those fees. 
Bank of Scotland should refund them with simple  interest.
Incidental costs:  Mr F wants  Bank  of Scotland  to compensate him for the cost of any 
letters he sent about the mis-sale complaint, and the cost of any letters  he sent about 
the policy itself  for example, when  he applied for the policy and queried  certain  
aspects of it. He wants Bank  of Scotland to pay him £25 for these incidental costs. 
Im not going  to tell Bank of Scotland to compensate Mr F for any letters he sent 
about the policy  which would have  cost him, at most, a few pence or pounds. Nor 
do I think it needs to compensate him for the cost of any letters  he sent about  the 
mis-sale complaint. As I explained in my provisional  decision, Mr F could have 
communicated with Bank of Scotland for free. In reply, Mr F says he would have 
preferred to have  communicated by email, but Bank  of Scotland expressly  said it 
couldnt deal with his complaint by email.  He says he wouldnt have been able to 
communicate the detail and complexity  of the sale of the policy by phone, and that 
phone calls would not have been  as reliable as written records. He says the value of 
his incidental costs  arent  really important  what he wants is a token sum to 
recognise that there were costs, modest but not non-existent, which he would not 
have incurred had he not had PPI. I think the sums involved are so modest  Mr F 
mentions paper, ink, envelopes  etc  that theres  no need for Bank of Scotland to 
pay him any additional compensation, token or otherwise.
Inconvenience and upset: Mr F says that if the amount  of time hed spent on the 
MPPI policy and on complaining about it had been minimal  if the whole thing had 
taken less than an hour or so then it would hardly be worth  mentioning.  But he 
says hes spent  a considerable amount of time pursuing this complaint, and wants  
me to tell Bank  of Scotland to compensate him for his time using the minimum wage 
Ref: DRN11985523as the appropriate hourly  rate. Mr F says hed spent  15 hours on this complaint by 
26 February 2019, and a lot more since.
Mr F also says paying the premiums  and pursuing his complaint upset him. He thinks 
he was deliberately misled or lied to when Bank of Scotland  sold him the policy   he 
says the policy wasnt presented as a condition of the mortgage but he came away  
from the mortgage application interview  with the clear impression that buying PPI 
would maximise the likelihood  of getting the mortgage.
Mr F says his concern  about this has grown over the years  as the PPI scandal has 
grown  although he doesnt  say why he didnt complain sooner if this was the case. 
I note, too, that Mr F applied for a replacement policy when the original policy was 
cancelled by the insurer. His reasons for doing  so must have been unrelated to 
getting his mortgage, which he already had.
Finally, when Mr F referred his complaint  to our service, he made it clear he wanted 
Bank of Scotland to pay him the sum of money  it had paid Mrs F. For example, in a 
letter to our service dated 9 January  2020,  Mr F wrote: I want  Halifax/Bank of 
Scotland to pay me the full redress due for an insurance policy  the bank agreed was 
mis-sold to me more than 30 years ago.  And yet, in reply to my provisional decision, 
Mr F confirmed that Mrs F has made her cash redress payment available to [him]. 
First directly, and then via this service, Mr F has tried to get Bank of Scotland  to pay 
him a significant sum of money that hes already received, albeit via his wife.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  this was a simple mis-sale complaint. I 
dont think Mr F needed to spend as much time on it as he says he has. And when 
deciding whether or not to tell a business to pay a consumer additional compensation 
for inconvenience and/or upset, I need  to take into account the consumers conduct 
as well. All things considered, I dont think the mis-sale  itself or the way 
Bank of Scotland has handled this complaint  justifies any additional compensation for 
any inconvenience or upset caused.
Interest: Mr F says Bank of Scotland  should  have paid him compound interest on the 
premiums he paid  although he accepts that if it had used historic mortgage interest 
rates to calculate  interest on a compound basis, the amount  of interest hed have 
received would have been very similar  to the amount hes received, except it would 
not have been taxable. I appreciate that Mr F isnt saying Bank of Scotland should 
pay him any additional compensation as a result,  but for completeness, Ill address 
his point. As Ive explained above, the FCA says businesses should  pay simple  
interest on the PPI premiums paid. More generally, when a consumer is out of pocket 
because of a mistake the business  has made, an ombudsman  like me will usually tell 
the business to pay simple  interest at 8% per year,  which  reflects  the current 
statutory interest rate. So I think it was fair for Bank of Scotland  to use simple  interest  
in this case.
Redress split: Mr F says he and his wife keep their finances  separate   and he was 
embarrassed when  Bank of Scotland offered her a share  of the compensation, which 
was how she learned of his complaint. As Ive explained above, in reply  to my 
provisional decision, Mr F confirmed that Mrs F has paid him the money she 
received. He now wants Bank of Scotland to pay him the value of the income tax 
deducted from the compensation paid to Mrs F (£346.27)  with simple interest at 8%. 
He says tax paid can be offsettable, pound for pound, against general tax liabilities  
Ref: DRN11985524(not just the tax liability on the particular  items  of income from which  they were  
deducted), and in some  circumstances they are repayable. And he says that if hed 
received the full amount,  hed have received a tax credit for all the tax deducted  
(£692.54) rather than just half.
First, Mr F says he should have received a tax credit for an additional £346.27  but 
he hasnt shown that hed have paid less tax or received a refund if he had. Nor has 
he shown that Mrs F didnt pay less tax or receive  a refund, and cant  simply make  
the money she saved  or received available to him, as she did with the cash  redress  
payment. 
Second, Mr F says that even if Mrs F had returned  the money she received to 
Bank of Scotland, the tax paid was irreversible  so it made no sense for her to do 
so. I dont agree. Bank of Scotland could  have easily rectified the situation with 
HM Revenue and Customs. Mr F says there was no guarantee Bank of Scotland  
would have paid him any money Mrs F returned  indeed,  he says Bank of Scotland 
may have  kept it as a gift. Again, I disagree. I think this is wholly speculative  not 
least because Mr F had referral rights to this service.
Put simply, Mr F hasnt shown that hes out of pocket by £346.27.  If he is, I think hes 
in the position he is because of choices he and Mrs F made. And I think  it would be 
unfair to tell Bank of Scotland to pay him any additional compensation as a result.
Mr F has referred  me to a decision I made  in a completely separate  case.  The material  facts  
are not the same, and, as he knows, each case is decided on its own merits.
Finally, Mr F has submitted a complaint  to the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO): he 
thinks Bank of Scotland was wrong to disclose information about his PPI policy  to Mrs F. I 
have purposefully made no finding on this point. It should be clear from what Ive said above, 
that, save for my finding on fees,  I think Mr F has, ultimately, received fair compensation for 
the mis-sale of the PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think 
Bank of Scotland plc should refund the two £10 failed debit fees it charged Mr F, with 
simple interest at 8% per year. Otherwise,  I dont  think Bank  of Scotland  plc needs to pay 
Mr F any additional  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11985525My provisional decision
complaint and background
In 2018, Mr F contacted Bank of Scotland plc to say it had mis-sold  him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he and his wife (Mrs  F) applied for a joint mortgage.
In February 2019, Bank of Scotland upheld his complaint,  although  it had initially rejected  it. It offered 
to refund the PPI premiums  (£1,675) with simple interest (£3,462.88). It deducted income tax at the 
basic rate of 20% from the simple interest element of the compensation  (£692.54)  and divided the 
sum payable  (£4,445.14) between  Mr and Mrs F, paying them each £2,222.57.
Mr F doesnt dispute  the premium refund  or the simple  interest element. However, he doesnt think 
the offer is fair. He says he had to pay two failed debit  fees of £10 and wants  Bank of Scotland  to 
refund these with simple interest. He also wants Bank of Scotland to compensate him for the time 
hes spent on this complaint, to refund his incidental costs  (mainly  postage) and to compensate him 
for the upset of being mis-sold the policy in the first place. His main complaint point, however, is that 
Bank of Scotland  didnt pay him everything and instead  split the compensation equally  between  him 
and his wife.
One of our adjudicators  wrote to Mr F to say we needed  Mrs F to join the complaint. Mr F said this 
wasnt necessary or appropriate  he says hes the only eligible complainant.  An ombudsman with our 
service disagreed and dismissed the complaint without considering its merits because Mrs F hadnt 
joined it. Mrs F has since written to our service to say she doesnt think  shes an eligible complainant  
and will not join the complaint  but she does support it.
The complaint has therefore  been referred to me to consider everything afresh.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry  practice at 
the relevant  time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
1. Should I dismiss  this complaint?
As my colleague explained  when she dismissed  this complaint, the rules  say I may dismiss a 
complaint without considering its merits if I think that dealing with it would  seriously impair  the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service (DISP 3.3.4A  R).
The rules include some examples  of when  this might  be appropriate  (DISP 3.3.4B G). Ill mention two.
Ref: DRN11985526First, if a complaint  involves (or might involve) more than one eligible complainant and its referred  to 
our service without  the consent  of the other eligible complainant or complainants, an ombudsman  
may choose to dismiss  it if he or she thinks it would  be inappropriate to deal with the complaint 
without that consent.
Second, an ombudsman may choose  to dismiss the complaint if he or she thinks  it would more 
suitable for the complaint  to be dealt with by a court.
Whether or not I choose to dismiss a complaint will depend entirely on the facts  of the case.
In this case, Mrs F knows about the complaint. Shes told us she doesnt think  shes an eligible 
complainant. Shes  made  it clear she knows  what Mr Fs main complaint point is and shes told us she 
supports his complaint. I dont think I need to decide whether or not Mrs F is an eligible complainant. If 
she is an eligible complainant, shes chosen not to be involved. So I dont think  its inappropriate  for 
me to now consider each of Mr Fs complaint points and determine  this complaint by reference to 
what I think is fair and reasonable  (DISP 3.6.1 R).
2. Fees,  incidental  costs, upset and inconvenience
Mr F says he was charged two failed  debit fees of £10. If, in reply  to this provisional decision,  
Mr F provides  evidence of these fees and Im satisfied that he would not have incurred them if 
he hadnt  had PPI, Ill tell Bank of Scotland to refund them with simple interest.
On receipt  of Mr Fs complaint via an online tool, Bank of Scotland tried to call Mr F to discuss 
his complaint. Mr F wrote to Bank of Scotland to say he didnt  want to be called   he wanted 
to communicate about the substance of his complaint in writing.  When  he wrote to initially 
query the offer, Mr F said hed sent six letters  and wanted  £10 for the incidental costs 
involved. He sent some  more letters after this. However,  Mr F could have communicated with 
Bank of Scotland  for free. Instead,  he chose to write  letters and use the more expensive  
signed for service. In these circumstances,  I dont think it would be fair to tell 
Bank of Scotland  to refund  Mr Fs incidental costs.
Making a complaint invariably involves some inconvenience and takes some time.  Mr F first 
complained in November 2018 and received an offer in February 2019.  As Ive explained  
above, he chose to communicate in writing and hes shared with us the letters he sent to, and 
received from, Bank of Scotland before he received  his offer. Mr F has also referred to two 
telephone conversations  he had with Bank  of Scotland employees.  This was a simple  mis-
sale complaint.  And I dont think the time Mr F spent on it before he referred it to our service 
justifies any extra  compensation.
Mr F says taking out the policy, paying the premiums and pursuing [his] complaint has 
caused upset. He doesnt say how. And the offer includes simple interest on the premiums 
paid. Its a significant  amount of money. Simple  interest is paid to compensate consumers for 
being kept out of money they would have had if they hadnt been mis-sold PPI. Based on 
what Ive seen  so far, I dont think Bank of Scotland needs to pay Mr F any extra 
compensation for any upset caused.
3. Should I tell Bank of Scotland to pay Mr F the sum of money  it paid Mrs F?
As Ive explained above, Mr Fs main complaint point is that he alone  was entitled to the PPI 
compensation and he should have received it all. Mrs F agrees. She wrote to our service on 
19 November 2019. She wrote:
I write to confirm I support  [Mr Fs] complaint of 13 June 2019 to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service (FOS)  about [Bank of Scotlands] failure  to pay him full redress for a so-called 
mortgage payments protector insurance  policy  (the policy)
I had nothing  to do with the policy  it was not sold to me, I was not the policy  holder, I was 
not liable for (nor did I pay) policy  premiums,  I was not insured under  it, it provided  no benefit 
to me as joint mortgage  holder and I suffered  no loss from it
Ref: DRN11985527So Mr F says hes entitled  to everything and Mrs F agrees and says shes entitled to nothing. 
Mr and Mrs F are husband and wife and they live together. To ignore this fact would, in my opinion,  
be absurd.
Mrs F says shes received  money  she isnt entitled to but Ive not been told that shes returned it to 
Bank of Scotland  or paid it to Mr F  who she believes is the rightful owner.  And yet Mr F has made 
much of why it would be wrong for her to make a false and fraudulent declaration when  we asked 
that she join this complaint.
The only reason put forward by Mr F for why Mrs F cannot simply transfer the money shes received is 
that they have different  tax positions. Mr F doesnt say more on this point. Its not clear to me if he 
thinks more or less tax should  have been paid on the compensation. In any event, he should  feel free 
to discuss this with HM Revenue & Customs.
Mr F says hes been  done an injustice. I dont think he has. This issue could  have been easily 
resolved by Mr and Mrs F as husband and wife with minimal fuss. I simply  do not think it would be fair 
to tell Bank of Scotland to pay Mr F the sum of money it paid Mrs F (after updating the simple interest 
element) and require it to recover the money from Mrs F.
For completeness, Id add that I considered whether or not to dismiss this complaint without 
considering the merits on the basis that it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by 
a court. I say this because I cannot tell Mr and Mrs F to do anything  but a court  can. So if Mr F chose 
to pursue this matter in court,  Bank of Scotland could  seek to recover the money its paid Mrs F at the 
same time if his claim succeeded. Ultimately, I decided  it was better  to explain why I didnt think Bank 
of Scotland needed to take any further action  save  for any findings I may make on the failed debit 
fees.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I do not think Bank of Scotland plc needs to pay Mr F any 
further compensation  unless he provides  evidence  that he incurred two failed debit fees which he 
would not have incurred  if he hadnt had PPI.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 15 May 2020 change my mind,  I wont tell it to pay him 
anything.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1198552