K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) when he took out a personal loan in 1997. 
background
These events are from a long time ago and there  isnt much  information available. But it 
looks like Mr S applied for a loan in a bank branch and bought a PPI policy at the same time. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr S disagreed and 
the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
After over 22 years, its not particularly surprising that Barclays  hasnt  still got Mr Ss original 
loan application  form. In fact, it hasnt really  been able to tell us much about the loan at all 
because most of the records have been  destroyed. Businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely.
Mr S hasnt been able to send us any of the documents  either  and hes said he cant  
remember much about the sale, so there  are some  assumptions I need  to make about  how 
the sale took place and the type of documentation he would have been  presented  with. 
For example, Barclays sent us a version of a loan agreement that it says was used at the 
time. I think its likely  Mr S would have been  given something like this and I think  the figures 
on it would  have been put on there as a result of a discussion Mr S had with Barclays.  
I think its reasonable for me to say that this discussion  would have included how much  he 
wanted to borrow  and over how long. I note the agreement also has a section on it about PPI 
where the monthly premium would be shown. Theres  no dispute PPI was sold,  so I think Mr 
S probably  talked about this with the Barclays adviser. The amount hed need to pay for both 
the loan and the PPI would then have been  shown on the agreement he was asked to sign.  
So although  he doesnt remember now, I think its more likely he agreed to the cover.
Barclays concedes it may have recommended this policy to Mr S which  means it had a duty 
to make sure that it was suitable  for his situation. From what Ive seen, I think  Mr S was 
probably eligible  for the cover and I dont think hed have  been caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. In the event  of a successful claim it 
could have paid out a monthly benefit and this would have been in addition  to any other  
means he already  had in place. I therefore  think the PPI was probably suitable.
Barclays also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ref: DRN15904542I cant say that Mr S was told everything  he should  have been. But as Ive said,  I think the 
cost of the PPI was prominently set out and I also think he would have been given 
something explaining the policy rules.  Barclays sent us an example of the type of form 
consumers were provided with which explained how the PPI worked.  So I think Mr S would 
have had enough information on which to make an informed decision. 
Weve got very little information from either party about this 22 year old sale. Im afraid I 
dont think theres any evidence to say it was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.  And I dont direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1590454