K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander)  concerns the fees it charges for 
her overdraft, and the manner in which it allows her to repay her balance.
background
Miss M has an account with Santander, in which she has an agreed  overdraft. Shes  been  
trying for some time to reduce this overdraft,  having experienced some financial difficulties 
and life changes. 
She felt that the charges Santander  was applying  to her authorised  borrowing  was too high. 
And she also felt that its policy on only allowing her to pay back,  and reduce, her overdraft in 
multiples of £50 was also unfair. She said she was trying to sort herself  out financially, and 
that Santander wasnt helping with this.
She complained to Santander, and it explained that its overdraft charges were allowed per 
its terms and conditions,  and that each one had been applied correctly.  It was therefore Miss 
Ms choice whether  to use this facility. 
In respect of the overdraft reduction, it said that this was something  she could manage 
herself online, and that it allowed for £50 reductions so she could decide what was 
affordable.
Miss M still didnt think this was fair, and brought her complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  at the evidence, and concluded that she didnt think Santander had 
made a mistake,  or treated Miss M unfairly. She explained that we dont look at whether fees 
are too high, but rather if theyve been  applied legitimately and correctly. She also explained 
that were not a regulator, so we cant tell Santander how to allow  its customers to pay back 
their overdrafts. So she couldnt uphold the complaint.
Miss M still disagreed. She didnt feel Santander had treated her positively and 
sympathetically. She still believed the overdraft fees were too high, and that £50 to pay off 
incrementally was too much.  She felt trapped  into the account.
She asked  for an ombudsmans  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator.  I cant uphold this complaint. 
I know this will be disappointing for Miss M. I can see shes been in financial  difficulties,  and 
shes to be commended for trying to find a sensible way out of them. But that doesnt mean 
that Santanders been wrong in how its handled matters.  
As Miss M is aware, we cant uphold complaints on the basis  that charges are too high.  We 
can only look to see if theyre allowed to be applied, per the terms and conditions  of the 
account, and then if theyve been applied correctly. 
Ref: DRN15363762Im satisfied in Miss Ms case that Santander  hasnt made any mistakes in this respect. 
On the matter of the overdraft, our Investigator  was correct to say we cant  tell banks how to 
operate these  services.  I cant therefore  say that Santanders policy of allowing her to reduce 
her overdraft by £50 each  time is unfair. 
My role is to look at all the evidence,  and decide on an outcome I thinks fair to both parties. I 
know Miss M doesnt think Santanders  treated  her positively and sympathetically. Thats 
what we expect from banks who have customers in financial difficulties. I think  its listened  to 
her, and explained to her what its position  is. I cant say that the only positive  and 
sympathetic response  would be to reduce or waive all overdraft fees. 
What I would expect  is for any fees to be applied correctly, and that if a customer gets in 
touch to discuss financial difficulties, that theres an honest conversation and that a bank will 
take into account matters  of affordability. I cant say Santander hasnt done this so far, and 
Id expect it to continue to deal with Miss M, in the context of any ongoing financial 
difficulties, in a positive and sympathetic way. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Ashley More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1536376