K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the sale of a motor  warranty by Pinetree Car Superstore Ltd 
(Pinetree). 
background
Mrs D took out a Platinum Maintenance & Repair  three-year warranty in November 2017. 
In August  2018,  there was a problem with the car  Mrs D said the warranty provider told her 
it wouldnt be covered  as the car was a taxi. 
Mrs D raised a complaint  that the warranty shouldnt  have been sold to her. She said the 
adviser knew it would be used as a taxi. She added  they assured  her it would meet  the 
Councils criteria  for taxis and suggested where a meter  could go, as she was concerned 
about the space on the dashboard. 
Pinetree replied   it said the finance proposal showed  Mrs D was employed in a different  full-
time position and she didnt  foresee any downturn  in her finances  when  she took out the 
loan. It also explained  that the advisor  wasnt local to the area,  so wouldnt have known  the 
criteria for taxi firms.  
Still unhappy, Mrs D brought her concerns to our service to investigate.  On 14 April 2020,  I 
issued my provisional findings. In summary: 
I was satisfied this was a contract of insurance  and, therefore, that wed the power  to 
investigate Mrs Ds complaint. 
I didnt consider there was enough evidence  to say it was made clear to Pinetree that 
Mrs D intended to use the car as a taxi. 
I also didnt consider the term that excluded cover for taxis to be unusual  or 
significant  so Pinetree didnt need  to specifically highlight  the term to Mrs D. 
In all, I didnt think  Pinetree acted unfairly in how it sold the warranty. 
Pinetree accepted my findings and didnt have  anything further to add. Mrs D didnt respond 
by the deadline given.  The complaint has been passed back  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Given that neither  Mrs D nor Pinetree  have added anything in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason  to change my decision. For completeness, Ive explained my 
reasons again  below:   
our jurisdiction
Ive firstly  considered whether our service has the power  to investigate Mrs Ds complaint. 
Pinetree have  mentioned  the warranty providers comments  that this isnt a contract of 
insurance and, therefore,  isnt part of the of activities  we can help with, as per our rules  in 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  handbook, known as DISP. 
While the FCA hasnt  defined a contract of insurance, its Perimeter Guidance  manual 
(called PERG) does  contain some useful information  about how one might  be identified. For 
example, PERG 6.3 describes the legal position:
Ref: DRN18552622The courts have not fully defined  the common law meaning of insurance and insurance 
business, since  they have,  on the whole,  confined their decisions to the facts before them. 
They have, however,  given  useful guidance  in the form of descriptions  of contracts  of 
insurance.
The best established of these descriptions appears in the case of Prudential v. 
Commissioners of Inland Revenue [1904] 2 KB 658. This case, read with a number of later 
cases, treats  as insurance any enforceable contract under which a provider  undertakes:
(1)in consideration of one or more  payments;
(2)to pay money or provide a corresponding benefit (including in some cases services to be 
paid for by the provider) to a recipient;
(3)in response  to a defined event  the occurrence of which is uncertain (either as to when it 
will occur or as to whether it will occur at all) and adverse  to the interests of the recipient.
Here, its clear Mrs D paid extra for the plan and that it was to provide benefits to her. And I 
can see it covered repairs  if particular parts fail  and thats  both uncertain  as to whether that 
will happen,  and if it did, it would be adverse to her interests. So I think the warranty meets 
the description provided above. 
Ive gone on to consider the examples given under PERG 6.7 where the FCA has or hasnt 
concluded contracts to be contracts of insurance . These explain what distinguishes a 
simple manufacturers or retailers warranty (which  generally wont be contracts of 
insurance) and a third party  or extended warranty (which generally will be). To summarise, 
its where the contract is provided by someone other than a seller or supplier;  or if its 
significantly more extensive  in content,  score  or duration than a sellers  usually obligations  
as to the quality  of goods. Here, the plan is provided by a third party  suggesting it generally 
will be a contract  of insurance. 
PERG 6.7 further  examines typical warranty schemes administered by motor  dealers  but 
thats for where  the dealer itself assumes  the responsibilities under the plan, which  isnt the 
case here. 
So, taking into account the guidance  in PERG, Im satisfied this is a contract of insurance 
and, therefore,  an activity weve the power to investigate. 
the sale of the warranty
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D says she told the representative from Pinetree that the car would be used as a taxi  
she said they discussed where the meter would go and the Councils regulations.  Ive 
considered this alongside the evidence Pinetree has presented.  It has pointed out how the 
finance application showed  she worked  in a different job at the time. And that, had Pinetree  
have known what she planned to use the car for, not only would the warranty be unsuitable, 
but also, it wouldnt have  been able to offer the finance they did  it couldnt be used for 
commercial purposes.  So Mrs D wouldnt have been able to get the deal she did. It added 
that the car wasnt  registered as a taxi until the end of August the following year  so the 
plans werent imminent.  
Ref: DRN18552623Given the conflicting evidence, I dont think theres enough, relying on Mrs Ds word alone, to 
say it was clear to Pinetree  how she intended  to use the car. Of course, I cant  say for 
certain  but civil disputes like these are only ever decided on the balance of probabilities   
i.e. whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Even if theres not enough to conclude  that Pinetree  knew about Mrs Ds intentions  with the 
car, it still had to give her enough information  so she could make an informed choice about 
whether to buy the insurance. To do this, Pinetree needed to draw  Mrs Ds attention to 
unusual or significant features of the policy. 
The terms and conditions  do explain that it wont cover vehicles for hire or reward.  Im 
satisfied Mrs D wouldve had the opportunity  to read these  after all, shes  provided us with 
a copy of the terms given  to her at the time.  I dont  find that this is an unusual term in 
personal (as opposed  to commercial) warranties  I think many  providers would view using a 
car as a taxi as increasing the risk of a claim being  made and, therefore, look to exclude it. 
Equally, I dont think the term is significant   because most people  wouldnt have been 
affected by it. 
It follows that I dont think Pinetree acted unfairly  in how it presented this particular term to 
Mrs D. I therefore  dont  think  it needs  to refund the cost of the policy.  
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs D. To add, I did contact Mrs Ds 
warranty provider to see if theyd  consider  refunding a proportion  of the cost she paid, for the 
time she wont be able to make use of the policy. But theyve said their terms dont provide 
for that. And given that the business isnt a regulated firm in our jurisdiction, Ive no power  to 
formally get involved here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1855262