K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
(Audi) unfairly charged him for damage to his car. He would like the charges refunded.
background
Mr L complains  that Audi unfairly charged him for two dents to his car at the end of his Hire 
Purchase Agreement. He believes these two dents were too small to be charged for.
Audi said Mr Ls car was inspected by a trained inspector who identified two dents. The dent 
to the left corner bumper deformed the metal  so was unacceptable wear  and tear. The dent 
to the left hand rear panel  was over 10mm. And located on the swage of the vehicle which  
meant it also fell outside of acceptable wear and tear.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He found the dent to the left hand rear panel  
was located on the swage  line and as British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
Guidelines (BVRLA) dont  specify a size requirement for dents on a swage line he felt this 
charge was fair.
He found there were  no size measurements available  for the dent on the left corner  bumper 
to help him decide if this dent fell within the normal size tolerance or not. He didnt accept 
Audis view that it was chargeable as it had deformed the metal  on the bumper. He felt that 
was the normal  definition of a dent.  As it was not located on the swage line or roof he didnt 
feel this was chargeable.
He recommended that Audi removed the charge (£55.20) for damage to the left corner 
bumper.  This meant Mr L only had to pay the £138 charge for damage  to the left hand rear 
panel.
Mr L accepted  this but Audi didnt. It said that the bumper may be considered  as part of the 
swage line and so was chargeable. Our adjudicator  considered  this view but didnt change 
his mind. He had found no information to show that bumpers  are considered  as parts  of 
swage lines.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Audi has charged  Mr L for two dents on his car when he returned  it 
at the end of his Hire Purchase Agreement.
Mr L has said he could have had both dents repaired at a lower cost than Audi has charged 
him. But I agree with both our adjudicator and Audi on this. Mr L may well have been able to 
get the repairs done at a lower cost,  assuming  he used an approved  garage  for repairs,  But 
he didnt chose to do so.
Audi said that when  the car was returned  a more  detailed  inspection showed more  damage 
which, in accordance with its policies, it hasnt  charged for. I agree with our adjudicator  that 
isnt grounds to say Mr L has to pay for the two dents it has charged  for if there  are no 
grounds to do so.
Ref: DRN12203622Our adjudicator found that Audi was entitled to charge for the dent to the left hand rear 
panel. As Mr L has accepted this view I dont think I need to consider this further.  Other than 
to make a general comment, applicable to both charges, that having seen Audis terms and 
conditions it is entitled to charge for any damage outside of BVRLA  Fair Wear  and Tear 
Guidelines.
The main  issue for me to consider  is whether  it is reasonable  for Audi to charge Mr L for the 
other dent.  There are no size measurements  to check if this dent is more than the 10mm 
tolerance the BRVLA allow  for. Mr L has given us some photos  but I didnt find these 
particularly clear or helpful  in deciding on the size of the dent. And Audis own information 
doesnt help with determining the size of the dent either.
I have looked  at the one page report made on the day the car was collected that Mr L 
refused to sign  that notes one dent as going  across  the swage line but not the other. I have 
also looked at the fuller  four page report which also makes no mention  of the dent in dispute 
being across the swage  line.
I am inclined to agree  with our adjudicators view that a dent is a deformity. And as the dent 
is to the bumper not the moulding  I dont think the BVRLA guidelines  on mouldings and trims 
apply.
On that basis, and given I have  no information to confirm the size of the dent, I think  it is 
unreasonable for Audi to charge Mr L £55.20 for the dent to the left corner bumper.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
In full and final settlement  Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Finance should  not charge Mr L for damage  to the dented left corner of his car (£55.20).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1220362