K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Eldon Insurance Services Limited failed to renew his motor  insurance 
policy leading to him being stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured. He wants  
appropriate compensation for the humiliation and stress caused. 
background
Mr K was stopped by the police who told him that he was uninsured.  This was checked with 
Eldon which initially  said Mr K hadnt  returned the paperwork for his renewal. The police 
permitted Mr K to take out insurance elsewhere, albeit for an increased premium, and he 
was able to continue his journey. But he still had the threat of penalty  points and fine 
hanging over him. 
Eldon then said the error was due to its technical  fault. It offered Mr K a letter of indemnity, a 
refund of the difference  in premiums and £200  compensation. The police withdrew the notice 
and cancelled the penalty. But Mr K didnt think this was enough for the stress  and 
embarrassment caused him.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that Eldon 
should pay Mr K a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Eldon replied that it disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this was a difficult and humiliating experience for Mr K. He thought his 
policy had auto-renewed, but a technical fault had prevented this. He was stopped by the 
police and this caused distress to him and his son. He then had the threat of further action 
which, as a new driver,  would have had serious  implications for him. 
When a business  makes a mistake, as Eldon agrees that it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position, as far as its possible to do so. We also look at the actual 
consequences of its error,  rather then the potential outcomes.
In Mr Ks case, I think the following  should  be considered:
The avoidable embarrassment and inconvenience of being stopped by the police. 
The difficulty of having to wait in the police car for 40 minutes with his son whilst 
enquiries were made.
The shock of then finding out that he was uninsured.
Mr Ks car wasnt impounded at the time.  
The inconvenience  of having to pay a deposit immediately for another policy.
Having to take out a policy for an increased  premium.
Having the threat  of court  action, penalty  points and a fine. I think  this wasnt  
resolved until over three  months  later when the police cancelled  the penalty.
Having to manage his sons  reaction to the event.
Ref: DRN19721002I think Eldon  reasonably and quickly provided a letter of indemnity that Mr K could show  to 
the police. I also think it reasonably refunded  Mr K the increase in costs for his new policy 
taken elsewhere. But I dont think its offer of £200 compensation is sufficient for the factors 
Ive listed above.  
The adjudicator recommended that Eldon offer Mr K a further £200 compensation. This 
makes a total of £400. I think this is fair and reasonable as it takes into account the particular  
circumstances of Mr Ks case and the level of distress he was caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Eldon Insurance  Services  Limited to 
pay Mr K a further £200 compensation  (£400 in total) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1972100