K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC (trading as Barclaycard) increased its charges to his 
business without  telling  him and also provided poor customer service.
background
Mr I has a merchant services  agreement with Barclaycard. In August 2015 it says it wrote to 
him setting  out that the charges would increase from 1 October  2015.  In June 2017 Mr I 
complained about the level of charges. He did not receive a final response until July 2018. 
Barclaycard paid him £550 for the poor service but said it had not made a mistake  in 
increasing the charges.
The adjudicator did not recommend that Barclaycard  do anything further. She said that:
-The terms and conditions of the agreement set out that the charges could be 
changed normally with at least 30 days notice.
-Barclaycard had provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr I about  this. It had the 
correct address and she did not think Barclaycard could  be responsible for Mr I not 
seeing it.
-The new charges were visible on the statements from October 2015.
-The level of charges was a matter  for Barclaycards commercial judgement and it did 
not have to offer the same rates to all customers. So it could offer the different rate to 
another business operated by Mr I hed mentioned and which  at the time had a 
different payment processor.
-Barclaycard did eventually offer improved rates to Mr I but he did not accept them. 
He did not think  it had explained the increases.
-There were  unreasonable  delays in answering his complaint and compensation has 
been paid. He was given referral  rights to this service  in August 2017.
Mr I did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He wanted all the increase in 
charges since August  2015 refunded as he did not agree to this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from what Mr I says on his complaint form that his business has a seasonal 
element. And that the increase in some fees for processing payments from a flat fixed 
amount to a percentage rate had a significant impact on his profit margins.
The adjudicator has set out the details of a letter Barclaycard sent him about this. So I think 
it acted in line with the terms and conditions  of his agreement by providing him with advance 
notice. I know he says he did not see this. But the increased charges  were  visible  on his 
statement in October  2015.  I appreciate that there  were limited transactions then and that, 
the minimum processing charge of £20 applied.  But I can see in other  months before June 
2017 the charges were higher. And Im afraid Mr I did not need formally to agree to these 
increase. He was fairly liable for those charges by using the service.
I can see that the charges had increased  significant especially for larger value transactions. 
It is a matter for Barclaycard to use its legitimate commercial discretion to set them and to 
decide whether  to review them or to offer lower rates for new customers.
Ref: DRN17991092I know Mr I expected it to review the decision for him and he complained. Barclaycard has 
little explanation of why it took it so long to give him an answer about this. But in the 
meantime it gave no indication that his fees would be lower. And it wrote to him to update 
him about the complaint  and told him he could refer it to this service.
Its made him a payment  to reflect the delays. And its said that was made up of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience and £250  for poor service. As Ive set out I dont  think  it made a 
mistake in applying  its increased  charges and so I dont  find I have a basis to require it to 
refund any of those  charges or to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1799109