K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has refused to 
progress his claim under his legal expenses insurance policy.  
For the sake of clarity where I refer to RSA I mean  both the underwriter and any agents 
working on its behalf.
background
Mr W has a Home Insurance policy, which includes legal expenses cover  underwritten by 
RSA. Earlier this year he contacted the underwriters  to let it know he was bringing  a case  
against his previous employer to the Employment  Tribunal. He wanted to claim for his legal 
costs under the legal  expenses element of his home insurance policy.  However  he explained 
that he had a solicitor  already and that once his claim was accepted he wanted  his chosen 
solicitor to represent him. 
The RSA agent  Mr W was dealing  with told him that in order  for his claim to be accepted it 
had to be established that his case against  his previous employers had reasonable 
prospects of success.  And the agent told him that because Mr W wanted to use his own 
solicitor, the cost of establishing this would have to be covered by Mr W himself.  They  then 
went on to say that if Mr W agreed to use RSAs  panel of solicitors, the cost of assessing the 
prospects of success would be covered by the underwriter. 
Mr W argued that he wasnt in a position to cover that cost up front and that RSA were 
disadvantaging him by refusing to allow him to use his own solicitor.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint already. She found that under the 
terms and conditions of the policy Mr W was entitled to choose his own representative once 
his claim had been accepted. She said that RSA should cover the cost of assessing  the 
claim and if it was accepted, Mr W should  be allowed to use his own solicitor. She also 
recommended RSA pay Mr W £100 in compensation for the delays and stress it has caused 
in how it has handled his claim to date. 
RSA disagreed with her findings. Its representative  remained adamant that any solicitor  who 
was willing  to represent Mr W would  insist on assessing the merits of the case themselves. 
As such the representative believed that if Mr W wanted to use his own solicitor he should  
cover these costs himself. They asked for the case  to be passed to an ombudsman to 
reconsider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Looking at the policy wording I can see it states  that RSA will provide legal expenses cover 
under the policy  where:
 we think you have  a reasonable chance  of winning your case  and achieving  a reasonable 
outcome,
Ref: DRN15512012It then goes on to say:
In circumstances  where we have  chosen  a representative to act on your behalf, we will pay 
legal expenses incurred  for providing  the initial assessment of the claim irrespective of the 
prospects of success or whether  the claim is covered under this policy.
Where you have  chosen your own representative, any legal expenses incurred in 
providing initial assessment shall only be covered where there are reasonable prospects of 
successfully pursuing  or defending the legal  proceedings and the claim is covered under all 
other terms and conditions of the policy.
The decision  to grant consent will take into account the advice of your representative as 
well as that of our own advisors.
It seems  to me that the first step is for RSA to establish whether or not it believes the case 
has reasonable prospects of success.  This is a fixed part of the claim process and if RSAs 
legal agents dont believe the case is likely to succeed the claim wont  progress any further.  
The policy wording does  say that if Mr W has his own solicitors RSA will only cover the costs 
of the initial  assessment if its positive. But I dont think that means this is something  Mr W 
has to establish  himself, even if he does wish to use his own solicitor, assuming his claim is 
accepted by the underwriter. The terms also say RSA will rely on the advice of both his 
advisers and their own. In any event,  its standard industry practice for the insurer  to arrange 
the initial assessment.  I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding  whether 
a claim has reasonable  prospects and to rely on that advice,  unless its obviously wrong. The 
policy goes on to explain that if Mr W does  choose  his own solicitor  to represent him his 
legal costs will only be covered if RSA are satisfied the case has reasonable  prospects  of 
success. Therefore  I dont  see how Mr Ws claim could ever be progressed without RSA 
explicitly testing the merits of the case  itself and confirming whether or not it was happy  to 
take on the risk of paying the associated legal fees. 
The next logical step in regards to Mr Ws claim is for RSA to establish whether or not it 
thinks his claim  has reasonable  prospects of success. Mr W has indicated  that he no longer  
has faith that RSA will do this in an unbiased  way, given the problems he has experienced in 
trying to get the underwriter to accept his claim at all. However in order to progress the claim 
as quickly as possible I believe  the appropriate thing to do is for RSA to assess  the claim 
itself. Should Mr W disagree with the outcome reached by RSA he can challenge it 
separately.
In regards to the delays  and stress  caused  by how RSA has handled Mr Ws claim to date I 
agree with the findings of the investigator. Mr W has confirmed is case will be heard  in June 
of next year and has explained that up to this point he has been trying to represent  himself 
as he is unable to afford  to appoint a solicitor without his insurance cover  in place. He has 
explained that this has caused  him enormous stress  and he worries he has disadvantaged 
himself and his case by not being  in a position  to proceed with legal advice in place. With 
that in mind I agree that RSA should pay Mr W £100 compensation in recognition of the 
impact caused by the poor handling of his claim to date. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to:
Ref: DRN15512013Reconsider Mr Ws claim by assessing whether or not it has reasonable prospects of 
success. If it does the claim  should  be progressed  as normal in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions 
Pay Mr W £100 compensation in recognition for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the poor handling of his claim to date 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1551201