K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about  a claim they made  on their home insurance policy for 
accidental damage.  Theyre  unhappy that the claim for damage to their sofa was declined 
because it was cosmetic. They think the exclusion is unfair and unreasonable.
The policy underwritten by AXA Insurance UK Plc and is responsible for the claim decision 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that when  briefly left unattended, their young  child drew on their 
sofa and carpet with permanent marker  pen and biro. They made a claim under the 
accidental damage  cover provided on their buildings and contents  policy.
AXA arranged for the damaged items to be inspected and, if possible, cleaned  to remove the 
marks. Having determined the marks couldnt  be removed, AXA accepted the claim for the 
carpet, but not the sofa. It said that there was an exclusion  that applied  to the whole policy  
which excluded cosmetic  damage.  The damage  to the sofa was only cosmetic  and it still 
functioned, so the claim for it was excluded from cover.  The carpet, was a decorative  item 
and so was covered as its entire  function was cosmetic. So the carpet could no longer fulfil 
its function.  The policy limit for carpets and rugs of £750, less the policy  excess, would 
apply. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  about  AXAs claim decision in respect to the sofa. They said 
that when they asked  questions at the time of application it was confirmed that it was like for 
like cover. They also said they hadnt  been  told about any exclusions. In addition,  they 
considered describing  a carpet as being  a decorative item as ridiculous. 
Settlement for the carpet  was made  a few weeks after Mr and Mrs S made their claim.
AXA referred Mr and Mrs S concerns about the sale of the policy to the responsible 
business. It said the claim had been  handled  within the policy  terms and conditions. AXA 
also commented that it was Mr and Mrs S responsibility to read the policy documents  
thoroughly and there was a 14 day cooling off period if there were any issues once they had. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with AXAs position  on the claim and referred  their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt  recommend it was 
upheld. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the investigators conclusions  and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
The policy Mr and Mrs S took out contains some general exclusions that apply to all parts  of 
the policy. This includes an exclusion for Pure  Cosmetic Damage.
Cosmetic damage is defined within the policy  as damage that solely affects  the appearance 
but not the functionality of an insured item (e.g. chipping, denting or scratching) except 
where the item is used purely for decorative  purposes (e.g. carpets) where cosmetic damage 
is limited to £750 per item, per claim.
Ref: DRN16099572my findings
I must at this stage  set out what I will be considering  in this complaint. Mr and Mrs S have 
concerns about  the information  they were given at the time of the sale of the policy.  The sale 
wasnt conducted by AXA and again  the associated documentation was not provided by it. 
As such,  I wont be commenting on those matters in this decision. I will consider only the 
matter of the claim decision and handling. 
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I would firstly explain the role of AXA in this case. Whilst AXA is an insurer in its own right 
and offers policies direct  to consumers, that is not its role in respect to Mr and Mrs S policy.  
AXA in this situation is the underwriter  of the policy.  That means that another  financial 
business (often referred to as a retail  insurer) has decided it wants  to offer an insurance  
policy and has decided  what it wants that policy to do and cover. It will then find an insurer  to 
act as the underwriter, which means it takes  on the risk of any policies that are sold and 
deals with any claims. 
When a claim  comes  in, the underwriter  will apply the policy  terms and conditions that the 
insurer has asked it to attach to the policy.  It doesnt usually set those terms and conditions. 
So as long as the underwriter fairly applies the terms and conditions to all the holders of the 
policies it underwrites,  we wouldnt find it had done  anything wrong.
In this case, that appears to be what AXA did; it applied the policy definition of cosmetic  
damage to the items Mr and Mrs S claimed  for and applied the relevant exclusion to the 
sofa. I dont think it did anything wrong in doing  so in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with the service  they received from AXA when it handled their 
claim. I have  looked at the timescales and communication,  and other than on one occasion  
describing the claim as a buildings claim rather than a contents claim, I dont think  AXA did 
anything significantly wrong. The claim was settled in less than three  weeks and whilst Mr 
and Mrs S were unhappy with that settlement, as I have said above, that is something that 
will be considered under the complaint  about the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 4 December  2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1609957