K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc incorrectly told him the funds from a cheque  
payment to his account were cleared.
background
Mr L paid-in a cheque  for approximately £2,500  to his HSBC account. He contacted  HSBC  
the following  day to check his available balance. He says its automated telephone service 
quoted a balance including the value of the cheque. And that he chose a further option to 
check that the balance quoted was cleared funds. He says HSBCs automated telephone 
service confirmed that the balance was cleared funds.
Mr L tried to make a payment of approximately  £1,200 on the same day he checked  the 
balance. The payee told him the payment was refused by HSBC because of a lack of funds. 
Mr L says this caused him embarrassment,  humiliation and considerable pain.  He also says 
he was charged interest by the payee and the incident has affected his credit  file.
Mr L has provided a copy of his bank  statement  showing that the account balance on the 
day after the cheque  was paid-in includes the value of the cheque.
In its response to Mr Ls complaint, HSBC confirmed that he paid-in  a cheque for 
approximately £2,500 and that it hadnt cleared the next day. It says it doesnt record the 
options chosen by customers on its automated telephone system, but it hasnt  known the 
system to give incorrect information.
Our investigator found that, while we cant say which options Mr L chose on HSBCs  
automated telephone system, the terms and conditions of his account do explain  that it takes 
three working days for a cheque to clear. And, as Mr L attempted  to make  a payment using 
those funds within three working  days,  HSBC made no error in declining  the payment. Our 
investigator also said she felt Mr L ought  reasonably to have known about the time it takes a 
cheque to clear because he told us hed worked  in a high street bank.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and Ill explain why.
I do understand that the difference between an account balance and cleared funds can be 
confusing and sometimes more so when that information is received  via an automated 
service. I also understand that when a payment is declined, it can cause embarrassment and 
inconvenience. But, to decide this complaint, I need to consider whether HSBC has done 
anything wrong.
Mr L says he was told that the funds were cleared the day after he paid-in the cheque. While 
we have no other evidence to suggest  that he was told the balance,  including  the value of 
the cheque, was cleared  funds; I do have to take his recollections into consideration. 
But Ive seen that the account terms and conditions are clear on this  it takes  three working 
days for funds to clear  after a cheque has been  paid-in.  And I think its unlikely that HSBCs 
system would say the funds were cleared and then prevent  a payment from being made. I 
Ref: DRN16190152say this because, for two automated responses   the one on the telephone and the one 
declining the payment   to differ, they would have to be relying on conflicting information.  I 
havent seen anything to suggest its likely  that would happen or is likely to have happened  
in this case.
I know Mr L feels that his account  statement, showing  a balance including  the value of the 
cheque on the day he tried to make  the payment, is strong evidence.  But Im satisfied this 
was the balance including uncleared funds and pending transactions.  And I dont think  its 
unusual for banks to show balances that way.
On balance, while I appreciate that Mr L has suffered some  embarrassment and 
inconvenience, I dont  think  its likely  that HSBC did anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint  about  HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1619015