K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  was of an unsatisfactory quality.
background
In June 2018, Mr B was supplied with a used  car through  a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for £7,669 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of 
£258.04. At the time,  the car was more than six years old and had done 99,081 miles. 
The car broke down  in March 2019.  And at the time itd done 107,931 miles. Mr B was told 
the gearbox needed repair and the clutch needed replacing. He was also told there were 
bolts missing from the transfer  unit. Mr B had the car repaired, which  cost almost £2,150. He 
complained to Moneybarn, asking them to reimburse him for the cost of the repairs. But 
Moneybarn didnt agree  they were liable for the repairs, so Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator said, because the issues with the gearbox and clutch  happened more than 
six months after Mr B was supplied with the car, the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  (CRA) said it 
was his responsibility to prove the faults  were present when the car was supplied.  And Mr B 
hadnt provided anything to show this was the case.
The adjudicator said the gearbox  and clutch were wear and tear items and, given the high 
mileage the car had travelled, it was reasonable to think theyd need repair/replacement. 
And, because the car had done 8,850  miles since it was supplied,  she thought that any faults 
present at the time of supply wouldve become  apparent sooner.
She also said she seen  nothing to show her that the missing  bolts had caused the gearbox 
and clutch issues, so she thought these issues were  as a result of general wear and tear. 
Because of this, she didnt think Moneybarn needed  to do anything.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicator. He didnt think  it could be wear and tear if the bolts 
had come undone. He also felt hed been  blamed for buying a car with high mileage and he  
said when I was on the phone  to money  barn they said if it was a fault with the car they 
would pay for it. Hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Mr B was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means 
were able to look into complaints  about it. 
The CRA says, amongst  other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality  
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Moneybarn  are responsible.  Whats  
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory given 
the price,  description  other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
Ref: DRN16811662The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months,  its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after the first six 
months, then its for Mr B to prove the fault was present when  the car was supplied. So, if I 
thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession  of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn  to put this right.
When Mr B took possession of the car on 14 June  2018, it was more  than six years old and 
had done 99,081 miles. Id expect  to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. 
So I think any reasonable person would expect major components  to need replacing much 
sooner than with a lower mileage car, and for there  to be costs associated with this.
Its not disputed  that the car broke down some  nine months after Mr B took possession  of it, 
or that the gearbox needed repair and the clutch needed replacement.  But, because this 
happened more  than six months  after he was supplied with the car, its for Mr B to prove  that 
these faults existed (or were developing) when  the car was supplied. 
Mr B feels  hes being blamed for buying  a high mileage car, which  isnt the case.  But, given 
the cars  mileage, as Ive said I think its reasonable to expect to have to repair  or replace 
major components (such as the gearbox  and clutch)  sooner than you wouldve needed to do 
in a lower mileage car.
If Mr B had done a limited  mileage since taking possession of the car, I mightve  thought it 
possible that the issues were there when the car was supplied.  But hed done almost  9,000 
miles before the gearbox and clutch failed. So, without any other evidence, I think its more 
likely than not that this was simply a wear and tear issue. And Mr B hasnt been  able to 
provide anything, such as a report from the garage  who did the repairs,  to say that these 
issues were present when  the car was supplied.
The garage had said there were  bolts missing from the transfer unit. And its possible that 
these bolts were missing when the car was supplied. But missing  bolts  could only make  the 
car of an unsatisfactory quality if theyd caused  problems. Mr B believes the missing bolts  
caused the gearbox and clutch to fail. But he hasnt provided anything to show that was the 
case. And the invoice from the garage who carried out the repairs notes the missing bolts as 
an advisory; not linked  to, or the cause of, the gearbox and clutch  issues,  or any other 
issues. 
So, without any evidence  to link them, I cant agree that the missing  bolts were  the cause of 
the gearbox and clutch issues. Based on what Ive seen, I think  this was more  likely than not 
a wear and tear issue based on the mileage the car had done at the time of the March  2019 
breakdown. 
Mr B has also said that Moneybarn told him if it was a fault with the car, theyd pay for it. Ive 
seen Moneybarns system notes, and Ive not seen  anything  to show me that Moneybarn  
told Mr B theyd  definitely reimburse him for the gearbox and clutch  repair  costs.  And, while 
Moneybarn are responsible for faults  present or developing when the car was supplied, for 
the reasons given, Im satisfied this wasnt the case with Mr Bs car.
Because of this, considering all the relevant  circumstances, Im satisfied Mr Bs car was of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied, So I dont think Moneybarn are responsible  for the costs 
of repairing  Mr Bs car; nor do I think they should take the car back and unwind the finance 
agreement. 
Ref: DRN16811663my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Moneybarn  No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1681166