K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is complaining on behalf of her late husband, Mr B. Ill refer to the late Mr B as Mr B 
in my decision. I dont  mean any disrespect by this. 
Mr B says HSBC Bank UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  His recollection 
is that he applied  for the credit card and PPI policy in branch.
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a tanker  driver for an oil company. He has told us he was 
only entitled to statutory pay if he was unable to work or was made redundant. He didnt 
have any other means of repaying his credit  card should he be unable to work.  Mr B has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment and life cover  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Bs credit card balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 71p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in 2005.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN14281942Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN14281943other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
There is very limited documentation  available for me to consider. But I dont find this 
surprising as the sale took place  25 years ago and businesses arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. 
Ref: DRN14281944Mr B hasnt provided much detail about  what happened either  again  unsurprising given the 
passage of time. Its also the case that Mr B hasnt said he thought he had to take the PPI in 
order to be given the credit card or was pressured  into taking it. So, its possible that Mr B 
understood he had a choice about PPI.
So, taking everything  into account I cant fairly say that HSBC  mispresented  the policy  as 
being compulsory  or that it placed  undue pressure  on Mr B to take it out.
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mr B cant  remember whether advice was given during the sale and HSBC  cant  confirm  
whether this was the case.  But from what we know about  how HSBC sold PPI in-branch at 
the time of the sale, and to be fair to Mr B, I think it most likely that advice was given.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr B with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. Notwithstanding the 
passage of time, this is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely 
had some limited information about Mr Bs financial circumstances from the credit application 
Mr B likely had to complete, but there is no specific  evidence to show the adviser  took steps 
to establish whether Mr B would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  HSBC considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I cant fairly say that HSBC did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B given his circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet  
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Bs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN14281945-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Bs circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr B would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
I also think its likely he would have had some  understanding of how much the policy cost 
before agreeing to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether HSBC  gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr B 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary    
Mr B might have been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded HSBC  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr B. Im not persuaded  that HSBC gave Mr B all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN14281946-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that HSBC took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr B, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mr B would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr B says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But I 
Ref: DRN14281947accept that HSBC didnt make  clear the on-going cost information.  So, while Mr B didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
which Mr B knew  about or should  reasonably have known of, on the start date of the 
policy or which he received treatment  or advice for the during the 12 months before 
the start date and which  recurred within the 12 months of the start date or any 
chronic or continuing disease he had on the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr B needed  to be prevented from doing any work. I dont think  
this is likely to be too different  to what he would have expected to make  a claim. - it seems 
unlikely he would have  thought hed been able to make a successful claim if he was still 
working.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting, and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Ref: DRN14281948Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude HSBC  should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN14281949circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B, on behalf  of 
the late Mr B, to accept  or reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1428194