K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that MCE  Insurance Company Limited (MCE) voided his motor  cycle 
insurance policy from inception and unfairly accused him of misrepresentation.
background
On 29 April 2019 Mr K took out an insurance  policy for his motorbike through  a price 
comparison website. This policy was with MCE. On 7 May 2019  he called MCE because he 
had some questions  regarding his motorcycle licence.
Mr K told MCE that he was yet to take a test to enable him to ride motorcycles  with higher 
than 125cc engines  (his own was over 600cc)  and that he took the insurance out to enable  
him to take the test. MCE  told Mr K that he needed  a student policy instead of the one he 
took out and said it would void his policy. 
MCE wrote  to Mr K on 16 May 2019 saying that he had misrepresented the type of licence 
he held. It said he told MCE he had a full licence but he didnt have a full motorcycle licence. 
MCE considered this to be a case of careless misrepresentation. It said had Mr K told it he 
didnt have a full motorcycle licence it wouldnt have sold him the policy so it voided it from 
inception and kept the £50.10 hed already paid as a voidance fee.
Mr K was unhappy with this because he said he had cancelled the policy  himself  before it 
was voided. He was also unhappy  because he has to declare  the voidance  to future insurers  
and said he has been unable to take out another insurance policy  since.  
Our investigator ultimately  thought this was a case of careless  misrepresentation but 
because Mr K called  MCE to clarify the situation  within 14 days of buying the policy  he 
thought it would be fairer for MCE to record this as a cancellation  by Mr K rather  than by 
MCE. He also said MCE could reserve its right to avoid the policy in the event of any claim 
that may have occurred  while  it was on cover. 
MCE didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
I will first deal with the allegation  of misrepresentation. In order  to determine whether a 
misrepresentation has taken place and if so, what the remedy should  be, our approach  is in 
line with the process  detailed  in the relevant legislation- in this case the Consumer  
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Under CIDRA Mr K has a duty to take reasonable care to provide accurate information  in his 
application for insurance. This is dependent on, among other  things, him being  asked a clear 
question. Mr K was asked  to choose  the type of motorcycle licence that he held. I think that 
was clear. The options included full UK licence and moped. Mr K has provided a copy of 
his licence which seems  to be a full UK licence in that it isnt a provisional licence. But it also 
shows that he only has an AM licence when  it comes to motorcycles-  which  is a moped  
licence. So by choosing  full UK licence  I dont  think Mr K answered the question  correctly 
and I dont think he took reasonable care to do so either. 
Ref: DRN14339332MCE has said that it considers that this is a case of careless misrepresentation rather  than 
reckless or deliberate.  I agree. In cases of careless misrepresentation (where  there  has not 
been a subsequent claim) the insurer may void the policy if it wouldnt have sold it to the 
consumer had it not been for the misrepresentation. MCE  has told us that it wouldnt have 
sold the policy to Mr K if it had known  he didnt have a full motorcycle  licence and voided it 
from inception. Though  this may have been  in line with CIDRA, in these specific  
circumstances, I dont  think  it was fair or reasonable.
Mr K called MCE to clarify the point about his licence within the initial  14 days  of the policy 
being taken out (the cooling off period).  During  that conversation it was determined  that Mr K 
hadnt yet passed a test to enable him to ride his own motorcycle.  But he said he checked 
with the DVLA  (Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency) and was told he did have  a full licence 
which is why he said this in his application but he was still unsure  and thats why he called 
MCE. He also said his current  licence  enabled him to ride his motorcycle  with an escort.  
MCE told him he needed a new student insurance  policy which  it didnt offer. Towards  the 
end of the call Mr K was told the policy would be voided but wasnt  told what the 
consequences of this would be. I note Mr K said he had cancelled  the policy himself but this 
isnt the impression I got from listening  to the call.
As I said above, though I think MCE was entitled  to void the policy,  in these specific  
circumstances, bearing in mind that Mr K himself  called  it about his licence and also the fact 
that he did so during  the cooling off period, it would have been fair and reasonable to have 
allowed him to cancel the policy himself.  I think the effect of Mr K having a voidance on his 
record for the next five years outweighs any effect  that a cancellation  instead  of a voidance  
would have on MCE. And as our investigator said, if a claim is made  for the period MCE was 
on cover  it can reserve the right to void the policy at that stage. In any event Mr K told us 
that he didnt use the bike during that time.
According to the policy  had Mr K cancelled the policy himself  he would have been charged 
an administration fee of £30 and would  have had to pay a pro-rata  premium  (for his time on 
cover) of at least £30. So I think the fact that he ended up being charged £52.10 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. MCE Insurance  Company 
Limited should treat this as a cancelation  made by Mr K and it should note it as such in any 
internal or external  databases it updates.  But it can reserve the right to avoid the policy if it 
later transpires that an incident  took place during its period of cover that leads to a claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1433933