K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (formerly 
Norwich Union) failed to cancel a decreasing term insurance (DTA) policy they took out in 
December 1993  as part of a staff mortgage  when they repaid that loan in November 2007.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage scheme in 1993  specifically  stated that life cover  
will discontinue if Mr and Mrs S left their employer and/or repaid the staff loan. Mr S says he 
informed Norwich Union in November 2007  that theyd repaid this loan when notifying it of 
their change of address.  He says he also asked Norwich Union if it required any further  
information from him and it confirmed  that it didnt. So Mr and Mrs S expected  
Norwich Union to have cancelled the DTA policy forthwith.
Mr and Mrs S have  now realised that the DTA policy wasnt cancelled  at the time and theyve 
continued to pay premiums to a policy  that was inadequate for their subsequent borrowing. 
That the policy continued after November 2007  is contrary to the terms and conditions of the 
staff mortgage scheme they were provided  in December 1993 and theyve requested a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid to this policy since November 2007, plus interest.  
background
In response, Aviva  rejected  their complaint because the policy  was owned by Mr and Mrs S 
and only they could cancel it. And, in any event, Norwich Union had written to members  of 
this scheme in September 2007 notifying  them that they could keep the policy  even if they 
left the employer or repaid  their loan. 
In December 1993, Mr and Mrs S arranged a mortgage though their employers staff house 
purchase loan scheme which required them to take out an appropriate life assurance  policy.  
Their employer appointed Norwich Union  to provide, and administer, an appropriate policy 
for each  member of the scheme as part of a group assurance arrangement.  Norwich Union 
did not provide  advice   it received instructions  from Mr and Mrs Ss employer as to the 
terms of each policy it should set up. 
To cover their loan,  Mr and Mrs S applied for a DTA policy for £51,000  over 25 years  on 
preferential terms, on condition that: You will no longer be eligible  for the membership of the 
scheme and life insurance cover will discontinue if you (i) cease to be employed by [the 
employer].. or (ii) repay your staff housing loan.
Around one week  later, Mr and Mrs Ss employer wrote to Norwich Union requesting life 
cover under the policy to be increased by approximately  £400.
But, in September  2007, Norwich Union wrote  to scheme members  allowing policyholders  to 
continue with their existing policy even if they did leave  their employer and/or change 
mortgage lenders.  As the policy couldnt be altered, policyholders were  strongly  
recommended to take advice to ensure the policy still met their needs. If they did wish to 
retain the policy, they didnt need to do anything.  Otherwise, they were recommended to 
contact Norwich Union to cancel the policy. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt receive this letter. 
In November 2007, Mr and Mrs Ss employer notified Norwich Union that their staff loan had 
been repaid.
Ref: DRN14001892Records held by Norwich  Union confirm that Mr S did contact them  by telephone  in late 
November 2007  to notify them of a change of personal details . And, in the circumstances, 
and given what Mr and Mrs S have said, Norwich Union accepts that this was probably to 
confirm their change of address. But theres no evidence of any issues  other than this being 
discussed, or whether Mr S asked  if there  was any further information he needed to provide  
in these circumstances. And Aviva  has said that, if the telephone call included any mention 
of the mortgage  or the life cover provided by the policy, this would have been recorded  
separately and no other entries were made on its telephone log at that time.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who didnt feel it could be 
upheld. Briefly, he thought:
the policy schedule  specifically states  the circumstances under which Mr and Mrs S 
would cease to be members of their staff mortgage scheme  and life cover  provided 
by their policy would discontinue. In repaying  their staff loan in November 2007,  they 
would have triggered  this condition;
but Norwich Union revised  these terms and conditions in a letter  to Mr and Mrs S 
dated September 2007, which allowed them to retain the policy  even if they left their 
employer or changed  mortgage lenders;
while Mr S says they didnt receive this letter, it is correctly addressed and, on 
balance, they would  have received it;
in any event, Mr and Mrs S ought  to have been aware that something  would  need  to 
change vis-a-vis the policy;
that Mr S telephoned Norwich Union in late November 2007 to advise  of their change  
of address suggest that they were still relying on the policy and may have forgotten 
that the original  terms and conditions indicated the policy  would be cancelled in these  
circumstances;
it was also reasonable to expect policyholders  to check their bank statement to 
ensure the premiums  had ceased,  as expected.
All things  considered, he couldnt see that Norwich Union had done anything  wrong.
In response, Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment which he said unduly found 
in favour  of Aviva at his expense. He also said that:
he couldnt agree that Norwich Union had done nothing wrong  it changed the terms 
and conditions of their policy without adequately notifying them,  even when he 
contacted them  in November 2007  to confirm their change of address;
they hadnt received any notification in September 2007 of the changes  in their 
policys terms and conditions. That the adjudicator  says the letter  from Norwich  Union 
dated September 2007 was received essentially says hes a liar;
Mr S has remained with this employer and at no time did he indicate that he had left, 
so the adjudicators conclusions are flawed as they are based on an incorrect 
assumption;
he contacted  Norwich Union in November  2007 to advise them of their change  of 
address which  doesnt  suggest anything other than that. Whether he had forgotten 
the terms of the original  policy  is irrelevant;
it wasnt appropriate to question why they hadnt  checked their bank account for 
premiums continuing to be deducted;
Ref: DRN14001893it was unreasonable of Norwich Union to change their policys terms and conditions 
without properly notifying them and obtaining  their signed acceptance. A change of 
address alone  would not on its own invalidate the original terms and conditions;
for the adjudicator to suggest that Norwich  Union would have repaid their new 
borrowing when the original agreement covered a much  smaller loan is inaccurate;
he thought  he was already dealing with an ombudsman.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has already complained about  our handling  of their complaint, which has been dealt 
with as a separate matter outside of this decision.
Its important to stress that I assess any complaint on the evidence  that has been made 
available to me by both sides and, if that evidence is conflicting or incomplete, I decide  on 
the balance of probabilities whose version of events is the more likely. 
Aviva isnt able to provide a copy of the terms and conditions of the staff loan scheme  from 
1993, which might have confirmed the respective responsibilities of Mr and Mrs S, their 
employer and Norwich  Union at that time whenever  Mr or Mrs S changed employer or repaid 
their staff loan. But, as the life cover held by Mr and Mrs S was part of a group assurance 
policy held by their employer, the letter issued  by Norwich Union in September  2007 
announcing the change in policy terms on leaving the scheme  was sufficient notification to 
all policyholders. Mr and Mrs S didnt hold an individual policy  document that required a 
formal endorsement  of this change to the terms and conditions of the group policy.   
Also, there is no recording of the telephone call Mr S made to Norwich Union in late 
November 2007.  But it has retained  system notes which confirm that Mr S did call at that 
time to update  their personal  details and Norwich Union has agreed  that this concerned  a 
change of address.  Otherwise, there is no evidence provided either by Mr and Mrs S or by 
Norwich Union as to what other issues were mentioned or discussed. As the content of this 
telephone call is central to the complaint, this makes the outcome finely balanced. But, as a 
rule, the onus does  lie with Mr and Mrs S to prove  their case. 
It would seem that Mr and Mrs S had arranged a staff mortgage  loan of approximately  
£51,000 on a capital repayment basis over 25 years in 1993, which required them  to take out 
a life assurance policy with Norwich  Union. The documentation they received from 
Norwich Union confirmed  the policy was a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy  providing 
life cover on a progressively reducing scale to match the outstanding balance  of their loan at 
any point during its term.  
When Mr and Mrs S took out the DTA policy as a condition of the scheme, it was 
Norwich Union, not their employer, which set out the condition to them in a letter  dated 
December 1993  that life cover would discontinue  (i.e. the policy would be cancelled) if they 
left that employer and/or repaid the staff loan. 
From this, I appreciate why Mr and Mrs S would have believed  that Norwich  Union would 
cancel the policy on being notified by their employer that they had ceased to work for them 
Ref: DRN14001894and/or repaid their staff loan. Implicit in this is that it would have been for Mr and Mrs S then 
to decide whether or not they wanted  to arrange  alternative  life cover to protect  any further  
borrowing they might  have taken once theyd  repaid  the staff loan. 
Of course,  Mr and Mrs S may not have needed  to borrow  again  if, for example, they had 
downsized and released equity from the sale of their home, or they had come into funds 
that enabled them to repay the loan and hadnt move at all. Norwich Union would not have 
known, and would not have needed to know, Mr and Mrs Ss borrowing requirements,  or the 
terms of any borrowing they might need, because it couldnt offer them advice on their life 
assurance needs in any event.
So, if, as Mr and Mrs S have said, they didnt  receive the announcement letter  
Norwich Union sent to all staff mortgage scheme members in September 2007, their 
understanding must still have been that Norwich Union would automatically cancel the policy  
when their employer  notified it in November  2007 that their staff loan had been repaid. In 
other words, there was nothing Mr and Mrs S thought  they needed to do for the policy  to be 
cancelled when they borrowed elsewhere  and left the scheme. 
But Mr S telephoned  Norwich Union later in November  2007 to advise it of their change of 
address. He says he did so because he felt it was appropriate to update Norwich Union with 
their personal details if it ever needed  to correspond with him over the cancellation of the 
policy. This seems plausible.
He says he didnt  know his employer had already notified Norwich  Union  that the loan had 
been repaid. And, in confirming their change of address,  he mentioned that they had taken 
increased borrowing. So, I appreciate Mr Ss point that, as the policy  covered  them  for a 
much lower  loan whose reducing  capital balance over the 13 years was matched by an 
equivalent reduction in the life cover provided by the policy, the policy was no longer 
appropriate to cover their new loan and they would have cancelled it if they had been told 
they needed to give Norwich Union  instructions to do so.
So, if Mr S then asked if there  was anything else he needed to know  or provide,  and 
Norwich Union said there was not, he would naturally assume the policy  would be cancelled.  
Accordingly, Mr S maintains it was reasonable to expect Norwich Union to have reminded 
him, given  the terms of the scheme  had changed  just two months earlier  and it knew  from 
their employer even  more recently that theyd repaid their loan, that the policy  would 
continue unless they expressly instructed Norwich  Union to cancel it.
From Norwich Unions perspective  in November 2007, it had been notified by Mr and Mrs Ss 
employer that their staff loan had been  repaid. So, given the message to policyholders in its 
announcement letter dated September 2007 (which  had been correctly  addressed  to 
Mr and Mrs S), it would have expected Mr and Mrs S to contact them to cancel the policy  or 
to do nothing, if they wished to retain it. 
Although Mr S did call Norwich Union, he did so to confirm their change of address. He didnt 
request the policy to be cancelled (because he didnt think  he needed to do so). But, if, as he 
says, he then asked  whether  there  was anything  else he needed to do or provide, in my 
view, its unlikely he would have done so without ever mentioning that he was expecting the 
policy to be cancelled. So, on balance, Im inclined to believe that Mr S just confirmed their 
change of address  to Norwich Union, and no more.  As such, it would have seemed to 
Norwich Union that Mr and Mrs S wished  to remain policyholders and continue the policy.
Ref: DRN14001895Ive no doubt that, if either Norwich Union had mentioned to Mr S that the policy  would 
remain in force unless  they specifically requested it to be cancelled  or, if Mr S had said he 
expected Norwich Union would cancel  the policy once theyd left the staff loan scheme, 
Norwich Union would have clarified its requirement for the policy  to be cancelled  to him at 
that time.  
But, given it was Mr and Mrs S who were expecting their life assurance arrangements  to 
change, I might expect  they would have instinctively wanted to check whether 
Norwich Union had, indeed, cancelled the policy, especially as it didnt write to them to 
confirm that it had done so, having just been  notified of Mr and Mrs Ss change  of address. 
Im less inclined to think that, in November 2007,  the onus was on Norwich Union to remind 
Mr and Mrs S that their policy would continue  if they didnt request it to be cancelled.
That, unbeknown to Mr and Mrs S, the policy remained  in force for almost 10 more years I 
dont think can be any more attributed to Norwich Union. In other  words,  Im not persuaded 
that Norwich Union was distinctly responsible for the policy not being cancelled in 
November 2007.
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1400189