K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains that Caversham Finance Limited (trading as BrightHouse) ("Brighthouse")  
retained and disposed of a television set that she was acquiring  under a hire purchase  
agreement without her permission.
background 
In 2011, Ms M entered into a hire purchase agreement  with Brighthouse to acquire a
television set, (the "2011 TV set"). In April 2012, she entered into a separate  agreement  for a
second television set (the "2012 TV set").  It seems  that in July 2014 she agreed an
arrangement to return both sets to Brighthouse temporarily while  she suspended payments, 
(a "pickup and hold"  arrangement).
She says that she decided not to reclaim the 2012 TV set. But when she went  back  to
Brighthouse to reclaim  the 2011  TV set within the time Brighthouse allowed, Brighthouse
said it no longer had it. She complained  to Brighthouse.
Brighthouse said there was nothing in its records to suggest the 2011 TV set was the subject 
of a "pickup and hold"  arrangement. So it thought Ms M must have voluntarily surrendered  it.
Its records showed that the 2011  TV set had been checked over and then became the 
subject of an agreement  with another customer.
our investigators  view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said the 
agreement for the 2011 TV set was due to be paid off around  12 September 2014,  when the
2011 TV set would become Ms M's. Brighthouse's records seemed to show it was treated as 
returned to it on 6 August 2014.
The agreement provided for Ms M to pay a total of £1,010.88  for the 2011  TV set by 156 
weekly instalments of £6.48 each. Brighthouse's records showed Ms M continued to pay 
instalments until 30 July 2014. So at the time Brighthouse treated it as recovered, only a 
small amount was still owed - some £27. The investigator thought it unlikely that Ms M would 
have voluntarily surrendered the 2011  TV set if she had been aware of this.
Brighthouse agreed that it seemed  unusual  for a customer to return a TV set with so little 
owing on it. But there was some onus  on a customer to be aware of when  her agreement 
was coming to an end. So it didn't think it had done anything  wrong.
The investigator thought Brighthouse had a duty of care to point out to Ms M when she took 
her TV set back  that it was near the end if the agreement. If this had been done,  it was likely 
she would  have continued to make payments for the last month or so and become the owner 
of the 2011 TV set. So she thought Brighthouse should offer to compensate Ms M to
recognise this.
Brighthouse didn't agree.  It said it seemed likely Ms M had decided  to return  the 2011 TV set 
so that she didn't have to continue making payments. Ms M should have been aware of the 
term of the agreement, and so should  have know how long was left on it. Because Ms M had 
the use of the 2011 TV set for nearly 3 years,  she hadn't suffered in terms of usage or 
financially.
Ref: DRN11915392Ms M said she was told by one of Brighthouse's managers at the time that she owed £150
on the 2011 TV set. If she had known she only owed some £27, she wouldn't  have taken it in
under a "pickup  and hold" arrangement, far less have voluntarily surrendered it to C.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Ms M and to Brighthouse on 20 December 2018. In it I 
said that it wasn't possible now to say exactly  what happened in 2014 when Ms M returned 
the 2011 TV set to Brighthouse. On balance, I thought it was more  likely than not that:
she returned it on a "pickup and hold" arrangement believing that she still owed  a 
significant amount  on it, and intending  to reclaim it; and
she went to reclaim it within the required time, but by then Brighthouse had 
mistakenly taken it back into stock and then provided it to another customer.
I thought it was unlikely that Ms M would have voluntarily surrendered it to Brighthouse 
knowing so little was owing on it. If she had proposed doing so, I thought Brighthouse had a 
duty of care to Ms M to point out how little was still owed.  Ms M says the only information 
Brighthouse provided at that time was that she owed much more.
I thought Brighthouse should  compensate  Ms M for the fact that she surrendered the 2011 
TV set when it was about to become  hers. This meant she lost what  was likely to have been 
several years use of it without further  payment or expense,  although this wasn't  certain. I 
noted she had already  had three  years  use of it.
My research suggested that Ms M could  now buy outright a similar TV to the 2011 TV set for 
about £350. But I took into account  that she still owed £27 on her 2011  TV set when
Brighthouse failed  to return it to her.
All in all, I thought a compensation payment of £325  was fair and reasonable for the loss of 
the 2011 TV set, and the distress and inconvenience  this caused Ms M.
Brighthouse accepted my provisional decision. Ms M responded to say, in summary,  that 
she would  like to be repaid the full amount she had paid for the 2011 TV set (just under 
£1,000) and in addition  compensation for all the inconvenience and stress  Brighthouse  had 
caused her. She thought  she should be put back to the position she started  at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to require Brighthouse to repay  all Ms M paid for 
the 2011 TV set. This would be to ignore that she had already had three years  use of it 
under her agreement, and so would  put her in a better position than she started at.
Having considered Ms Ms further comments,  I remain of the view that the compensation of 
£325 that I proposed in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable for the loss of the
2011 TV set, and the distress and inconvenience this caused Ms M.
Ref: DRN11915393my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Caversham Finance Limited (trading  as 
Brighthouse) to pay Ms M compensation of £325.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1191539