K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999.
Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mr Ms complaint, explaining that Id come to a 
different outcome to our adjudicator.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision, but Amex accepted  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to apologise for the errors  in my provisional decision  these have been 
corrected, and I can assure Mr M that Ive considered his case fully.
Most of the issues Mr M has raised  have been  covered in my provisional decision, so I wont  
repeat these here. However he has raised a different issue in his most recent 
correspondence which I will comment on  that he was young at the time of taking  out the 
card, a new father and finding  it hard to make  ends meet. He says he took direction from 
Amex before applying  for his credit card and PPI through the post.
While I appreciate that Mr M was young  at the time,  he chose to enter  into a financial 
contract with Amex  so he needed  to make  sure that he understood the agreement  he was 
entering in to. As Ive explained  in my provisional  decision, theres now no record  of the call 
taking place, but this doesnt mean  it didnt  happen   however  the paperwork Mr M 
completed does show  the PPI was optional, and doesnt imply that it would improve  his 
chance of being accepted. So these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN11292772my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  by 30 October 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11292773provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1999.  Mr M says 
American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint, they thought it should  be upheld as they couldnt  see 
that Mr M had been  given  a choice in taking  out the policy. 
Amex disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to be to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ms complaint. 
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr M says that he spoke to Amex on the phone before completing his credit card application. He says 
he was told that taking PPI was more favourable than not taking cover  he says he was told that he 
would have a better chance of being approved for the card by taking out the policy.
Amex provided  a copy of Mr Ms credit card to show that the PPI was presented as optional and that 
Mr M consented to taking  it out  but our adjudicator  didnt  think  the copy  was clear  enough  to see 
that this was the case. 
Ive now seen  a clearer sample  of the same  type of agreement  that Mr M completed  on this I can 
see that the PPI was presented as an optional product.  And comparing this sample to Mr Ms credit 
card application, I can see that PPI was selected  and that Mr M signed the application agreeing  to 
the information on it.
It is possible that Mr M spoke with Amex before he sent in his application  but even if he did, I cant 
see anything on the application that says that hes have a better  chance of being  accepted if he took 
out PPI. Had he been told differently, I think he wouldve questioned  this at the time. And, on balance, 
Im satisfied that Amex made it clear that Mr M didnt  have to take the PPI, and that he chose to do so
Amex didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Amex gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But 
he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.  
This means  that Amex doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of PPI to Mr M.
But Amex has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Ref: DRN11292774Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr M about that. Because Amex didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Amex  has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont  change  my decision, and I 
currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American Express Services  Europe Limited  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But American  Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back  to Mr M any commission and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
I know invite  American  Express Services Europe Limited and Mr M to provide anything  else they want  
me to consider before 27 September 2019. After which Ill issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1129277