K821x#15complaint
Miss C says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Miss C took out in 2003. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint because I dont think FICL gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because it didnt clearly explain the cost or the 
benefits of the policy.  I think  this would have mattered to Miss C because she had at least 
six months sick pay through  her work, which means  she could have met her credit  card 
repayments for a while without the policy. So I think Miss C probably  wouldnt have wanted 
the policy if shed  properly understood the cost and benefits. 
I dont think Miss C wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her clear  enough  
information about it. So, I think Miss C has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments. But I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss C in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss C would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss C made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN19820472The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss C would  have owed each month without  PPI  Miss 
C paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss C paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Miss C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Miss C what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1982047