K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about being contacted by a third party acting for 
Nationwide Building  Society. 
background
Mr H has an account with Nationwide. On 9 January 2019 he says he was called  a number 
of times by a number  he didnt recognise but no messages were left. Mr H traced the caller 
and found it was a business acting on behalf of Nationwide.  
Mr H complained to Nationwide. He said his marketing preferences  shouldve stopped this 
type of call and he hadnt given permission  to be contacted. Nationwide responded to Mr Hs 
complaint on 1 February 2019 but didnt agree it had made  a mistake. 
Nationwide said the third party had called Mr H to ask questions about the service hed 
received previously  it was completing a customer service survey. As a result, Nationwide 
said this wasnt a marketing call. Nationwide also said the third party  only called him once at 
14:53 on his landline and agreed  it didnt leave a message. 
Mr H asked our service  to look at his complaint and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt  think  Mr Hs complaint should  be upheld  as they didnt find Nationwide had 
made a mistake by contacting him via a third party. Mr H asked to appeal  the investigators 
view so his complaints been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Ive looked at Nationwides account  terms and they confirm it can call customers  about their 
accounts. In this case, Nationwide says it asked a third party business to call Mr H as a 
follow up to something  that had happened  the day before. 
Nationwides provided systems evidence to show Mr Hs marketing preferences were set so 
he wouldnt  receive sales calls. But Im satisfied Nationwide wasnt making a marketing call 
on 9 January 2019 when  it phoned Mr H. The call was customer service related.  
Both Nationwide and its third party have confirmed  Mr H should  no longer receive calls of 
this nature. I think thats reasonable  given the complaint  made by Mr H. 
Mr H says Nationwides third party called  him a number times without leaving a message. 
But Nationwide has provided  systems  evidence to show it called Mr H once at 14:53 on 
9 January 2019. It confirmed no message was left. I think the evidence  Nationwide has 
provided is quite  compelling.  I understand Mr H has concerns over whether the evidence 
Nationwides supplied  can be relied  upon. But Im satisfied the information provided is 
genuine. 
Ref: DRN18103722Even if I were to accept  Nationwides  third party made more  than one call to Mr H I dont  
think that would affect  the outcome here.  As Ive said, Nationwides terms allow  it to call 
customers and Im satisfied this wasnt a marketing call so didnt go against Mr Hs 
communication preferences. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Nationwides  third party  wasnt contacting  Mr H to 
make a marketing or sales  call. I havent been persuaded Nationwide acted  outside  Mr Hs 
marketing and communication preferences as it was calling about  the service  he received 
the day before.  Nationwide has confirmed  both it and its third party have made  changes  to 
its records to ensure Mr H isnt contacted by the third party again. I think  thats reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1810372