K820x#14complaint
Mrs M, on behalf  of the estate of Mr L, complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  declined  a 
claim under a home insurance  policy which covered the residential property previously 
owned by Mr L.
background
Mr L had a home insurance policy with Ageas. When  he very sadly passed away, Mrs M, 
one of the executors of Mr Ls estate, contacted Ageas to ask for the cover to be continued.
Ageas agreed  to continue the cover  and put the policy in the name of the executors. 
Unfortunately, sometime later there was an escape  of water at the property which  caused  
damage. Mrs M made  a claim under the policy,  but this was declined.
Mrs M complained to Ageas about  this, but was told the claim had been  correctly declined 
because the house had been unoccupied for more than 60 days.  
Ageas pointed to an endorsement in the policy,  added when shed informed them  of Mr Ls 
death, which said that damage  caused  by escape of water  amongst other things  would 
not be covered  if the property was unoccupied for more than 60 days. 
And they said this had been made clear to Mrs L during the phone call shed made to Ageas 
to ask for the cover to be continued.
Mrs M says the property wasnt left unoccupied for more than 60 days. She wasnt  happy  
with Ageas response and complained to us. Our investigator looked  into it and thought 
Ageas had done nothing  wrong. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to give my condolences to Mrs M for her loss. I also understand it cant  
have been pleasant for her to deal with these issues about insurance  after she suffered this 
bereavement.
There has been much discussion between Mrs M and Ageas about  whether the house was 
unoccupied for the relevant 60-day period.  Mrs M has pointed  out that her nephew  was living 
at the property most weekends. Ageas say theres  no evidence  the property was in fact 
occupied.
I have to say, given the evidence provided by Mrs M, Im satisfied on balance that the 
property was not unoccupied for more  than 60 days. And if my decision rested on this point 
alone, Id very likely uphold Mrs Ms complaint and ask Ageas to pay the claim.
However, it has become  apparent during our investigation that Mrs M was granted  probate 
over Mr Ls estate after Ageas agreed to continue the cover but before the escape  of water 
happened.
Ref: DRN11311622Ageas have provided evidence that in these circumstances,  they will allow cover to continue  
for seven  days after probate is granted but will cancel the policy from that point onwards. 
They say that if Mrs M had told them probate had been granted,  they would not have 
provided cover at the time the escape of water occurred.
Insurers are entitled to determine  what  risks they are willing to insure. Ageas policy  is not to 
continue cover for properties where the owner  has passed away and probate has been  
granted. Its not for me to comment on that or to attempt interfere with Ageas business  
decisions.
So, the key question for me is whether Ageas made  Mrs M aware  that she needed  to inform 
them when probate was granted   and whether theyd made it clear to her that this might 
have an impact on whether the property was insured.
Ive listened to a recording  of the call Mrs M made  to Ageas which resulted in the cover 
being continued.
During that call, Mrs M is clearly asked whether probate will be required.  She says that it 
probably will.
At that point, Ageas  agent asks Mrs M to make  them aware when probate  comes  through, 
because that can affect the responsibility to insure.
Although I think this point  might have been made in a slightly more direct  manner,  I cant  see 
any way that the agents meaning could have been misunderstood. 
He straightforwardly tells Mrs M to make  them aware when probate  is granted. And theres 
no real ambiguity about the potential consequences  of probate  being  granted.
Ageas have also pointed out that the policy documents sent to Mrs M after that conversation  
are very clear  that failure to notify  them of any changes to the information  previously  
provided by the policyholder may invalidate the policy. 
Ageas werent  aware that probate  had been granted  or when  until this came to light 
during our investigation.  Mrs M fully accepts that she didnt inform them that probate  had 
been granted.
Mrs M says she cant remember  being  told to contact Ageas again  when probate was 
granted. She points out that it was a long call and that she had no previous experience of 
dealing with insurance policies as an executor.
I understand Mrs Ms feelings  about this. And I understand that she was likely very upset at 
the time of the call. However, I have to decide  whether Ageas acted fairly and reasonably  in 
the way they dealt  with Mrs M  and whether their communications  with her were  clear. 
On balance, I think Ageas were  clear about  what Mrs M should do when probate  was 
granted. And they did make  her aware that this might have consequences in terms of the 
cover for the property.  I cant blame  them if Mrs M didnt take this in at the time  even if the 
reasons for her not doing so are understandable  in all of the circumstances.
Ref: DRN11311623So, Im satisfied Ageas were entitled to decline the claim, albeit not for the reasons set out in 
their final response to Mrs Ms complaint to them.
I should say, I dont think Ageas can be held responsible for not raising  the issue about  the 
grant of probate sooner. If it had been  identified earlier, everyone might have been saved the 
trouble of arguing over whether the property  was unoccupied or not. But Ageas couldnt 
reasonably be expected  to pick that up before  Mrs M said that she had been granted 
probate.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr L, to accept or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1131162