K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained about the delay in National Westminster Bank  Plc processing two transfers 
of money from his UK account to an account he held overseas.
background
On 4 June Mr T sent a request  to NatWest to transfer £85,000 to his overseas account1. The 
money was to remain in sterling rather than be converted to the local currency. NatWest 
didnt process the transfer because Mr Ts signature on the request didnt match the 
signature it held in its records. NatWest wrote  to Mr T on 8 June asking him to verify his 
signature by visiting  a branch or sending  a letter.
Mr T sent a letter to NatWest on 18 June.  He later chased NatWest and told it the money 
was to buy a property. The money reached the overseas account on 3 July.
On 14 July Mr T sent another request to NatWest   this time to transfer £70,000  to his 
overseas account.  Again,  the money was to remain in sterling. He re-sent the request a few 
days later.  There was a delay in the transfer being  processed because neither request was 
passed to the correct  department. The money  reached the overseas account on 13 August.
Mr T complained the delays. He said they had caused anxiety because  of possibly not being 
able to make  the payment, and caused  a financial loss due to a change in the exchange 
rate. NatWest didnt  think it was responsible  for any losses  due to a change  in the exchange  
rate. This was because the transfer was from sterling to sterling and any loss was dependant 
on the day Mr T converted  the money to the local currency. It nevertheless offered Mr T 
£200 compensation (which included £100  that had previously been offered) for the service 
issues Mr T experienced due to the delay.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined the reasons why I thought  the complaint 
should be partially upheld. The relevant points are repeated  below.
delays
It took roughly  a month for the money  from the first transfer to be received in Mr Ts 
overseas account (by comparison, it took seven days for the money from Mrs Ts 
account to be received).
NatWest had a duty to protect  Mr Ts money  and to prevent fraud. Id seen a copy  of 
Mr Ts signature  that NatWest held on file and it was clearly different to Mr Ts signature 
on the transfer request. So I concluded  that NatWest treated  Mr T fairly when it didnt 
initially process the transfer  pending  further  security  checks. I acknowledged  what  Mr T 
had said about  NatWest calling him rather than writing  which might have moved things 
forward quicker  but I didnt think it automatically meant that because  NatWest had 
another option the option it chose was unfair.
1 Alongside  this request  Mrs T requested a transfer of £170,000 from her NatWest account  into Mr Ts 
overseas account; and Mr T requested a transfer of £85,000 from another UK bank into his overseas  
account.
Ref: DRN17282562There was a further delay once the signature  was verified. I thought  the money should 
have been in Mr Ts account by around 25 June  (based on the time it took for Mrs Ts 
money to get into the account). It wasnt entirely  clear to me why it took until 3 July for 
the money to arrive in Mr Ts overseas account, so I concluded  that NatWest treated 
Mr T unfairly  by delaying the transfer  once the signature had been verified.
It again took roughly a month for the money from the second  transfer  to be received in 
Mr Ts overseas account. It seemed  the delay was due to Mr Ts requests going missing 
within NatWest and not being passed to/received by the correct department. I thought  
the money should have been in Mr Ts overseas  account by around  23 July (again  based 
on how long Mrs Ts transfer took), so I concluded that NatWest treated Mr T unfairly by 
delaying the transfer.
financial losses
There were  deadlines  set for when Mr T needed  to make down payments for the 
purchase of the new property. Because of the delay in the transfers the local bank 
waived/extended the deadlines as a gesture of goodwill.  But had the transfers  gone  
smoothly, I thought  it was most likely that Mr T would have transferred the money  into 
the local currency in order to make the payments by the original deadlines.
Mr T calculated that he suffered a financial loss due to the transfers being delayed. He 
eventually all the money into local currency on 21 August  and his calculations were  
based on the amount he received on that date compared to what  he would have 
received if hed exchanged £340,000  on 12 June  and £70,000 on 23 July.
I only considered the losses  that resulted from the delays in Mr T being able to convert 
the money to the local currency because of NatWest  unreasonably delaying the 
transfers. I thought  some  of the losses Mr T calculated were due to his decision to not 
exchange the currency until 21 August. I thought that was relevant to as Mr T was aware 
that due to international current affairs at the time it was evident the pound was in 
decline compared to the local currency. I couldnt  ignore the fact that despite Mr T being  
aware the exchange rate would  probably turn against him he took that risk by not 
exchanging the funds  immediately upon receiving them.
With that in mind,  I disagreed with some  of Mr Ts calculations:
oMr T received £255,000 of the initial £340,000 on 12 June so he could have 
exchanged that amount to the local currency at that time if he wanted or needed 
to. So, for the £255,000 that was transferred, I didnt think  NatWest should pay 
compensation for any losses due to a change  in exchange rate after 12 June.
oSimilarly, Mr T received the remaining  £85,000 on 3 July so he could have 
exchanged that amount to the local currency at that time if he wanted or needed 
to. So, for this amount, I didnt think NatWest should pay compensation for any 
losses due to a change in exchange  rate after 3 July.
oAs Id concluded that NatWest acted fairly in delaying the initial transfer  due to 
the signature issue, I thought any compensation due for any losses  on the 
£85,000 should be based on the exchange rate on 25 June rather than 12 June.
Ref: DRN17282563oThe majority  of the losses  Mr T calculated were based on him not being able to 
exchange the whole amount into the local currency until 13 August (when the 
second transfer was received in his account)  and him not actually exchanging the 
funds until 21 August (as he waited for the exchange rate to improve).  Whilst it 
was true that the full amount wasnt available to exchange until 13 August, 
£255,000 was available to exchange on 12 June and a further £85,000 was 
available on 3 July. So I didnt think it was appropriate to make NatWest  pay 
compensation for any losses on these amounts due to Mr T waiting until 21 
August to exchange the money  into the local currency.
I did some research  and calculations with the above comments in mind.  For the first 
transfer, if NatWest hadnt delayed matters  Mr T could, and most  probably  would, have 
exchanged £85,000  on 25 June at a rate of 1.3096 to the pound. If hed exchanged the 
£85,000 on 3 July the rate would  have been  1.3053. So I calculated there to be a loss of 
365.50 in the local currency.
For the second transfer,  if NatWest hadnt  delayed matters Mr T could,  and most 
probably would,  have exchanged £70,000 on 23 July at a rate of 1.3016. If hed 
exchanged the £70,000 on 13 August  the rate would have been 1.2669. So I calculated  
there to be a loss of 2,429 in the local currency.
So overall I calculated  there  to be a loss of 2,794.50 in the local currency, which at the 
rate on the day of my provisional  decision  equated  to £2,145.74.
overall service
Mr Ts complaint extended  to the lack of support he received from NatWest in trying to 
sort out the transfers  eg NatWest losing  two letters that had been signed for, and it being  
difficult to speak  to someone. Some of what Mr T had complained about and what  he'd 
like NatWest to do to put matters right concerned the day today running of the bank eg 
improving customer service, the process for checking identity, staff training, taking action 
to ensure this situation doesn't happen  again.  I explained that how businesses carry out 
their day-to-day activities was a commercial  decision for them to make  and that I didnt 
interfere with that. My role was more to look at whether in carrying out a day-to-day 
activity a business treated a consumer fairly in an individual  situation.
In this case the money  was being  used  to buy a property and I could see how the delays 
in the transfers  being  made  only added to what was already a stressful situation  
especially as payments needed  making and the deadlines passed.  Although  Mr Ts 
overseas bank seemed to have allowed him some leeway, I didnt think  that necessarily 
reduced the stress and inconvenience  Mr T suffered.
NatWest had recognised the service Mr T received  and that it impacted his overall  
experience  hence the compensation offer it made. I thought that offer was fair in the 
circumstances as it was in the region  of what I would  have  asked NatWest  to pay if it 
hadnt already  been offered. So I didnt think NatWest needed to pay any further 
compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both NatWest and Mr T accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN17282564my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  and there are no further arguments to 
consider, my final decision remains as outlined in my provisional decision  for the same 
reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr T 
£2,145.74, plus interest  at a rate of 8% simple  per annum calculated from 13 August 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.  
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1728256