K821x#15complaint
Mr C has a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA). His 
wife, Mrs P has complained about  a claim she tried to make under  the policy in 2017. She 
believes AXA caused her to experience unnecessary delays in receiving treatment as a 
result of the way it considered her claim.  
background
Mr Cs policy  provides  cover for both him and his wife. In 2016 Mrs P contacted the 
underwriter to let them  know  her GP had referred her to a consultant  urologist  for some 
tests. AXA approved the initial round of tests and the consultant began to work with Mrs P to 
find out what was causing her discomfort.  
A number  of other  tests were requested and approved in the coming weeks. In mid-July 
Mrs Ps consultant recommended a course of treatment for her and she approached AXA to 
claim for this. AXA explained it had some questions for Mrs Ps doctor and asked for some 
additional information regarding the proposed  treatment. Between  May 2017  and 
October 2017 Mrs P waited for AXA to approve her treatment. However AXA eventually  
declined her claim on the grounds that the information it had requested  was never  
forthcoming. Mrs P ultimately received her treatment via the NHS. 
Mrs P had been working with two different doctors, Dr R and Ms G. At a certain point during 
her treatment Dr R took over responsibility  from Ms G. However it would appear AXA didnt 
appreciate this fully because  between  July 2017 and October  2017  it continued  to send 
information requests  to Ms G when it should  have been directing them  to Dr R. And because  
it was sending them to the wrong consultant  it never received  a response. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ps complaint already. She found that AXA had 
been contacting the wrong doctor between July and October 2017.  She recommended that 
AXA pay Mrs P £100  in compensation in recognition of this failing and the stress it had 
caused her at the time.  However she said despite this error AXA was still entitled  to decline 
the claim as it never received the information it needed to progress it. 
Mrs P disagreed with the findings of the investigator. She responded by saying £100  was 
insufficient as she had been  paying  twice that in premiums each month and the problems 
with the claim were caused  by AXA contacting the wrong person. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review  her complaint and so it has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the policys terms and conditions I can see it states that:
We may ask you to provide more  information, for example from your GP or specialist. You, 
your GP or your specialist must provide us with the information we ask for by the date that 
we ask for it or you may not be covered for your claim.
So while I accept that AXA was contacting the wrong person for the information I dont think 
it was unreasonable for it to decline the claim on the basis  that the information  was never 
Ref: DRN14818582forthcoming, especially  as it didnt realise  the error it was making.  And as Mrs P has had the 
treatment elsewhere since then Im unable  to direct AXA to consider her claim at this point. 
As AXA has since accepted the error  it made regarding contacting the wrong person the only 
things left for me to consider are the impact the delays in getting  treatment and whether  or 
not the proposed settlement is sufficient.
Ive not seen any evidence to indicate  that the delay in getting  treatment  prevented Mrs P 
from working or that it had any financial impact on her on. I do accept that it must have been 
incredibly frustrating for her to keep going back to AXA to find out what the status of the 
claim was and to find out that the information  request was still outstanding. But the request  
itself was not unreasonable. And I cant see that there have been any negative 
consequences caused by the delay other  than the inconvenience it caused. And because  of 
that the £100 compensation  agreed to by AXA doesnt seem  unreasonable to me and I wont 
be asking it to increase  it further. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P and Im sorry we were not able to do 
more for in this instance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1481858