K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V have  complained about Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (Clydesdale)  
following a claim they made under s.75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs V purchased a solar  panel  system for their home from a supplier called 
Smart Save  Solutions.   They paid for it using a loan from Clydesdale (trading  as Barclays 
Partner Finance), and so under s.75,  Clydesdale is responsible for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation to the same extent as the supplier of the system.
For several years the solar panels  had worked correctly (albeit not to the level of 
performance Smart Save  Solutions  had represented).  But  when taking a quarterly reading  in 
January 2019  it became apparent that the meter had hardly  moved and the system wasnt  
working properly.
Mr and Mrs V called a third party company (Green Pulse Energy)  to come out and assess  
the system.  It  got the system working again  and installed  an Enphase Envoy  monitoring 
system which it said was required and should have  been installed at outset.  The cost for the 
call out, labour and equipment was £1,528.80.
Unhappy with the performance of the system and that they had to pay out for the Envoy  
monitor, Mr and Mrs V made a s.75 claim to Clydesdale.  It reviewed everything and upheld  
the claim on the basis there had been  a misrepresentation by the supplier.  It understood Mr 
and Mrs V had been told the savings made from the system would cover  the costs of the 
loan and pay for the system over 10 years.
Clydesdale commissioned an expert to calculate  the likely savings Mr and Mrs V would 
make from the system  over the term of the loan, and offered compensation for the balance  
of the payments needed to repay the loan.   This  resulted in an offer of just over £5,000 to 
effectively make the system self-funding.
Mr and Mrs V accepted the offer to make the system  self-funding  in principle, but also 
wanted Clydesdale to refund the payments theyd made to Green Pulse  Energy for the 
installation of the Envoy system.  As the offer didnt  include  those payments, Mr and Mrs V 
referred their complaint  to this Service for review.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded it shouldnt be upheld.  In  
summary he said that the offer made  by Clydesdale  was fair and reasonable, and explained 
the Envoy system was not included in the original  purchase order  or contract.  He also 
commented that the Envoy system was an optional monitoring add-on,  rather than 
necessary for the solar  panel system  to work.
Clydesdale accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr and Mrs V did not.  They 
responded saying theyd  been in contact with Enphase and were advised  the Envoy system 
was required and isnt just for monitoring.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr and Mrs V requested than an ombudsman  carry out 
a fresh  review.
Ref: DRN13580172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
When Mr and Mrs V were  sold the solar panel system it was on the basis  that it would be 
self-funding and pay off the loan they had taken to finance the purchase.  When working, the 
system does  provide  energy  savings, but not to a sufficient extent to service  the loan with 
Clydesdale and ensure it would be repaid in 10 years.
I understand Clydesdale has agreed there  was a misrepresentation by the supplier, and so 
has accepted  liability for that.  To  put things right, Clydesdale used an expert  calculation  to 
make an offer for the difference between the actual cost of the loan and what would  be 
required to make it self-funding.  I have  looked  at the calculation and consider it to be fair 
and reasonable overall.  Mr and Mrs V have accepted  the basis  for that calculation in 
principle, but seek to claim the additional costs they paid to have the Enphase Envoy  system 
installed.  So  Ive focussed my consideration of this complaint upon that point.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs V had the Envoy monitor installed upon the recommendation of 
Green Pulse  Energy  to rectify the performance issues  they previously had.  I also 
understand that theyre frustrated with the solar  panel system as its failed  to meet  their 
expectations, and I acknowledge  the Envoy system is an improvement which  will help 
monitor and maintain the overall performance going  forward.
But like the investigator, I dont  consider the Envoy  system  is something  that was included in 
the original solar panel purchase,  nor essential  for the basic  operation  of the system.   I 
understand Enphase has confirmed that since 2019  its a requirement for its solar  panel 
systems to include the Envoy system, but that was not the case in 2015  when the solar  
panels were originally installed.
When Mrs V responded to the investigators  assessment she explained that she understood 
the Envoy system to be more than just a monitoring system.  That  is correct  in that the 
system monitors  usage and performance, provides the ability for remote  trouble-shooting,  
and the capability  to automatically  update the system when required.  Whilst I understand 
the appeal and benefit of such a function, the solar panel system was able to operate  for 
almost four years without the Envoy system, and is not dependent upon it to work.   Albeit  I 
do acknowledge that it would mean  any future updates or problems fixes would require a call 
out and manual checking of the system.
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable for me to make 
Clydesdale pay for this added functionality, when it wasnt part of the original  system  or 
purchase.  
Ive also thought about the fact some  of the costs  incurred  with Green Pulse  Energy were  
not for the installation of the Envoy  system, but were  for the call-out and to get the solar  
panels operating again.   
When installed, the system came with a 10-year  guarantee  from the supplier  and under  
s.75 Clydesdale is responsible for honouring any such guarantee jointly  and severally from 
Smart Save  Solutions.   However, that covers  a claim  made under the guarantee  and not 
costs incurred through a third party.
Ref: DRN13580173Mrs V explained that they had contacted Green  Pulse Energy as they didnt know  the 
manufacturer of the solar panels.  I recognise  why they might  do that, but note they agreed  
to work and the installation of the Envoy  monitor without referring to the manufacturer,  
supplier or Clydesdale.  So the monies  paid by Mr and Mrs V wouldnt have been covered 
under the guarantee,  and so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask Clydesdale  to 
reimburse them now.
I understand Mr and Mrs V are likely  to be disappointed with my conclusions,  but I must 
assure them that Ive considered everything impartially  and based upon what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable overall.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, and I leave it for them to decide whether to accept the offer they 
have previously been presented with.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358017