K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading  as Yorkshire Bank  
(Yorkshire) have  handled unauthorised  transactions  on their account.
background
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint  to us as they were unhappy with the overall response 
theyd received from Yorkshire  during  their fraud  claim. Yorkshire agreed theyd let Mr and 
Mrs F down  in a number of ways  so they upheld  their complaint. Yorkshire  accepted different 
advice shouldve been given in the first call on 8 October 2018 and a block placed on the 
card and a new card issued then . They  also accepted that on 9 October  2018, when the 
card was blocked, that this should  be raised  a fraud issue and be investigated  but that this 
wasnt done until the following day, 10 October 2018  when all the fraudulent transactions 
were refunded. 
Yorkshire also said it was disappointing  that the local branch  werent  aware the fraud  team 
needed to speak to the specific  card owner.  Yorkshire apologised and said the failings would 
be highlighted with the relevant manager and credited Mr and Mrs Fs account with £150  
compensation. Mr and Mrs F wrote  to Yorkshire  refusing  the offer. They  told us they found it 
and insult for all the time and effort theyd put in to sort this out.
Our investigator agreed that Yorkshires customer service wasnt ideal. She found not only 
had money been  taken  from Mr and Mrs Fs account without their authorisation but they also 
didnt get appropriate support from Yorkshire when they reported this. All the transactions 
were refunded and although this took multiple  phone calls the matter was resolved  within  
three days which the investigator  didnt consider unreasonable. And she thought the offer of 
£150 compensation from Yorkshire - for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
shortcomings - was a fair amount and didnt recommend that this was increased.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the case. 
They said the bank  had failed to follow their internal  procedures and failed them five times 
allowing a further  payment  to go from the account without authorisation after theyd  been  
alerted by Mr and Mrs F. They thought the ordeal theyd been  through and having to both 
take time off work hadnt been taken into account.  Mr and Mrs F thought  by their calculations 
the compensation they should  be awarded  would be over £500 as they should be 
compensated per telephone call, per visit to the branch  as well as the stress and 
inconvenience causing sleepless nights and anxiety.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The mistaken reference in the investigators letter setting out her view is unfortunate.  I can 
understand why it might  make Mr and Mrs F fear the adjudicator hasnt properly understood 
all aspects of their complaint. Ive looked  at everything afresh before reaching an 
independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly  and reasonably  
uphold. Its clear to me this incident began on 8 October 2018 when Mr and Mrs F 
discovered the first  of five -  unauthorised  transactions for £199  and contacted  Yorkshire 
about it. 
Ref: DRN10163032Im sorry  to hear about  the distress  this incident has caused Mr and Mrs F. I appreciate  that 
the time between discovering these transactions on 8 October  2018  and 10 October 2018 
when they were all refunded was a stressful and worrying  time for them.  And I can see why 
they might  think Yorkshire allowed a further  unauthorised transaction  to go through  after 
theyd been made aware of the problem. But the records from Yorkshire satisfy me thats  not 
the case. The last unauthorised transaction occurred on the day Mr and Mrs F discovered 
the transactions and reported  them but it took a little longer to appear on their statements 
which could give Mr and Mrs F the impression it had happened  later than it did. But this 
transaction, along with all the others,  has now been refunded. So theres no loss to Mr and 
Mrs F as a result of Yorkshires shortcomings and I cant see theyve incurred any further 
expenses.
It is clear that Mr and Mrs F have gone through a worrying  time for those days until the 
refunds were  processed.  But considering all the circumstances I think the offer of £150 
compensation for that distress  and inconvenience  is a fair and reasonable offer.  Its the sort 
of award Id have  made had Yorkshire  not already offered it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel 
strongly abut this. But as I think Yorkshire have already made a reasonable offer to resolve 
their complaint I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1016303