K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ)  (Svenska) closed  their 
accounts. They also complain that they were unable to use their accounts within  days of 
them receiving a closure notice because Svenska had blocked them. They  say this caused 
them distress and inconvenience. And they want Svenska to pay them compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs W had five joint personal accounts with Svenska.
Following a review, Svenska decided to close all of Mr W and Mrs Ws accounts. On 8 
January 2018,  Svenska wrote  to Mr and Mrs W to let them  know  it would be closing their 
accounts on 9 April 2018. And that they should make alternative  banking arrangements.
Mr and Mrs W received  Svenskas closure  notice. But say within three days  of getting the 
letter, Svenksa  blocked  their accounts.  So they werent  able to use them normally. They say 
this caused them a great deal of distress and inconvenience. So they complained to 
Svenska.
Svenska said it had complied with the terms and conditions of the accounts when it decided 
to close them and didnt  block  the accounts.  So Mr and Mrs W had full use of the accounts 
up until they were closed. Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs W brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator was satisfied Svenska had acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions. She also said Svenska  hadnt  blocked the accounts.  So she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They say Svenska blocked and closed  their accounts without 
explanation. Theyve  said this caused them both a great deal of upset and inconvenience. 
Theyve pointed out that they havent  done anything wrong and have been good customers  
of Svenska for a number of years.  They want Svenska to provide a full explanation and pay 
them compensation for the trouble Svenska caused by blocking and closing their accounts.  
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W are upset. Im sorry  this experience has been stressful  
for them both. But for me to uphold his complaint  I have  to think Svenska  has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
account block
Mr and Mrs W say that within days of receiving the account closure notice, Svenska blocked 
their personal accounts. But from what Ive seen this isnt correct. I say this because 
Svenska has provided me with copies of Mr and Mrs Ws statements for each of their 
accounts. And I can see that the accounts  were operating normally. Mr and Mrs W were 
using the accounts regularly making  payments for everyday living  expenses. I can also see 
Ref: DRN13014972that Mr and Mrs W transferred the balances  of each account to another  bank account on 15 
January 2018.  So Im satisfied that the accounts  werent blocked. And I think its likely  Mr and 
Mrs W wouldve  been able to use their accounts up until 9 April 2018.  So I cant say Svenska 
has done anything  wrong. And I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Svenska. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account, which Svenska, Mr and Mrs W had to comply with, 
say that it could close the accounts by giving them at least  two months  notice. Svenksa has 
done this. So its entitled to close the account  as it seems its already done. 
Mr and Mrs W have  argued that Svenska cherry  pick their customers. They suspect  
Svenska have discriminated against  them on the grounds of their nationality. And have said 
Svenska simply doesnt like them. I dont underestimate their strength of feeling  about this 
matter. But I find nothing  to indicate  that this was the reason why their accounts  were closed.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to. They 
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals.  Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to decide who 
they want to contract  with. And Im satisfied that Svenska has exercised its commercial  
decision legitimately when  it decided  to close Mr and Mrs Ws accounts. Ive also noted that 
on 21 March 2018, Svenska  wrote to Mr and to explain  its decision.  So I cannot fairly  and 
reasonably say its done anything wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1301497