K820x#14Complaint
Miss W complains about the poor service she received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
when she reported  fraudulent transactions  on her account. NatWest paid her some  
compensation, but she says this isnt enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Background
On 15 May, Miss W noticed her account  had been  debited with a total of £414.95. This was 
as a result  of a series  of payments to an online retailer. Miss W had bought items from this 
retailer, but shed  used her credit  card.
She phoned NatWest  to dispute the transactions. It told her the payments had been made 
from the same device as other, undisputed payments. So it refused her claim.
Having spoken  to the retailer, she phoned NatWest again and it told her it had reversed its 
decision and would  be crediting her account with the total of £414.95. The bank  also paid 
her £60 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
But later that same  day, NatWest phoned Miss W to say it had made a mistake - it had 
rejected her claim. It gave the same reason as before  that some genuine transactions  had 
been made using  the same device  a mobile  phone  - used for the disputed  transactions.
She called NatWest again the following day, having again contacted the retailer. During this 
call, NatWest told Miss W her claim had been successful. When  she asked the member of 
staff if they were sure about this, they checked  and then told her her claim had been 
rejected.
Miss W complained and, following a further investigation, NatWest agreed to refund £414.95 
to her account. It said the IP address used for the disputed  payments was different to the 
ones used by Miss W. It paid her a further £100 compensation. But Miss W didnt think this 
was enough to compensate her for what had been  a very stressful  experience, so she 
brought her complaint  to this service.
NatWest told us it would refund  the fees Miss W had incurred as a result of the disputed 
transactions  theyd  resulted in an overdraft on her account and shed  been  charged £18.
Our investigator concluded that the refund of fees and the compensation already  paid of 
£160 was fair and reasonable.
Miss W didnt agree.  She said, in summary, that she wants  her account  fees for May 
refunded because NatWest failed to manage her account. And she wants reassurance  that 
this wont happen  again.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14855522I dont need to investigate the disputed transactions here  NatWest decided they were 
fraudulent and Miss Ws account has been reimbursed. The transactions resulted in an 
overdraft and Miss W was charged £18. NatWest has agreed to refund this fee, which is fair.
That leaves me to decide whether the compensation NatWest paid to Miss W of £160  is a 
fair and reasonable amount for the poor service it provided.
Fraud investigations are rarely straightforward,  particularly where online transactions  are 
involved. And its not unusual for a bank to reverse its initial assessment not to accept the 
claim once  its more  detailed investigation  has been completed. But I think  NatWest should 
have done better here. Miss W doesnt seem to have been told about the procedure and 
timescales for the fraud investigation; on two separate  occasions  she was wrongly  told that 
her claim had been accepted when it hadnt; and twice she was told her complaint had been 
closed, when it should have still have been being  investigated. If NatWest had explained its 
procedure more clearly  and if it had given Miss W accurate information,  I think this 
experience would have been  far less stressful  for her.
NatWest has paid Miss W £160,  I think it should pay her an additional  £100  to more fairly  
reflect the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
Miss W says she would like her account fee refunded for May because of NatWests  failure  
to manage her account. But the account  fees are for the products and services available  to 
Miss W for being an account  holder and it wouldnt be appropriate for the bank to refund its 
fee because of the disputed transactions.
Miss W would also like some reassurance that this wont  happen again. NatWest  has fraud 
prevention systems and procedures in place but it understandably cant give any guarantee 
that a third party wont be able to use Miss Ws card details in the future.  But it cancelled the 
card used for these  transactions  and it has blocked  the device that was used. I cant 
reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should:
1.Refund its overdraft  fee of £18.
2.Pay Miss W an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1485552