K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs credit card application had a section  for additional products. I can see the branch 
adviser went through the rest of the application  with Mrs H to get her details, so I think they 
wouldve discussed this section, too. The application  offered Mrs H the choice to take PPI or 
leave it. Its recorded  that the option to buy PPI was chosen, and Mrs H signed  the 
application. So I think its most likely that Halifax made Mrs H aware  she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  even if, understandably,  she no 
longer remembers doing  so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs H, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. While Mrs H 
said she had benefits through  work,  the PPI wouldve covered her for longer, and it paid out 
on top of those benefits. It also looks  like the policy wouldve been affordable for her. So 
I think the PPI couldve  been useful for Mrs H in her circumstances.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mrs H about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs H chose  to take out the policy, which implies like she 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above,  it doesnt look like she was affected  by any 
of the policys  main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Mrs H in case  
something went wrong. And if Mrs Hs circumstances changed,  she could cancel the policy 
at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont  think better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN16891762my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1689176