K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  refused to pay for repairs  following his claim 
against his distinct  motor insurance policy. His broker, Mr C, is helping  him to bring his 
complaint. 
background
Mr H lifted the convertible roof of his car and noticed  damage to the near side, rear hood and 
headlining. He reported that it was rodent  damage.  Mr H said he used the car with the roof 
down a few days  earlier and hadnt noticed any damage. He said before that, hed stored  the 
car in a garage  with the roof down  and hadnt used if for a couple  of months. 
Mr H made  a claim against his distinct motor  policy and Aviva arranged an inspection of the 
car. Aviva subsequently refused  Mr Hs claim. It said the damage was caused  over a period 
of time, which isnt covered by his policy. 
Mr H didnt accept Avivas  conclusion. He said that there  was no rodent soiling in the car, 
which would have shown  that the damage happened over time. Mr H also said that the 
damage is isolated to one area.  He says that his garage said that the damage  was caused 
when the convertible  roof was down  and when the roof was lifted, it ripped. Mr H wants  
Aviva to authorise repairs to his car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Aviva had treated Mr H unfairly. She said the photo  
produced by Mr H isnt dated, so it doesnt show that the car was used a few days  before he 
discovered the damage. The adjudicator said that it was difficult to establish exactly when 
the damage happened. She said that Aviva was entitled to rely on its engineers report  and 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said that there were no droppings from the 
rodents, which  hed expect to see if the rodents had been there for a number of weeks. In 
addition, there were no live rodents or nests. Mr H sent a picture of the car in use a few days  
before he discovered  the damage. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is Mr Hs policy, which says that Aviva will pay for damage to the car to be 
repaired but excludes, amongst other  things,  damage which happens gradually . Aviva  
wishes to rely on that exclusion. So, it has to show that the damage happened  gradually. 
Avivas engineer inspected Mr Hs car at the end of February 2018. He said the damage 
could have been done by a rodent. He said that there was no nesting  material, smell or sign 
of rodent deposits.  The engineer thought that the extent of the damage wasnt  possible on 
one occasion  and it must have been  over an extended period. He queried  whether the 
damage could  have been caused in some  other  way. 
Ref: DRN12206112I think it was reasonable  for Aviva to rely on its engineers conclusion that the damage 
happened over a period of time. The extent of the damage is such that I think its unlikely 
that it happened suddenly, on one occasion.   
I dont think its surprising  that there was no evidence of a rodent nest or deposits at the time 
Avivas engineer inspected Mr Hs car as the inspection took place over two months after 
Mr H discovered  the damage. Mr H says that he saw no rodent deposits  when he discovered 
the damage but he clearly thought it was caused by rodent damage as he referred to the car 
as a mouse Hotel. When Mr Hs broker  first reported the damage to Aviva,  he said that 
Mr H discovered  rodent  damage when he put the roof up and found a nest.  So it appears 
that, initially, there was evidence  of a rodent infestation, which would suggest that the 
damage happened over a period  of time.
I dont think that the photo Mr H has provided  showing  he used the car a few days before he 
discovered the damage alters the outcome here. It doesnt show the relevant part of the car. 
Mr H says that when he took that photo, the roof was still down.  So the damage may well 
have been present but undiscovered then. It seems  to me that the damage, however 
caused, could  have occurred during any of the period the roof was down. Based on what  Ive 
seen, I dont think that its unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the damage happened  
gradually. 
Mr H says that his garage said that the damage  was caused when the convertible roof was 
down and when  the roof was lifted, it ripped. That doesnt help to establish how and when 
the initial damage was caused.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think  Aviva treated him 
unfairly in refusing to pay for the repairs to his car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1220611