K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA France IARD  mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan.
This policy was sold by a third party acting on behalf of the policy insurer.  I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  was regulated  by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities,  or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. Mr S will notice that his complaint was 
originally set up against another business  who were  the original insurer. However  that 
insurer has now transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill just be refer to AXA in this decision.
background
Mr S took out the PPI in 1999 at the same time as arranging the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Because the sale happened so long ago, there  is limited documentary  evidence available. 
This does  make the complaint  more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have 
considered the evidence  that we do have as well as what I consider is most likely to have 
happened on a balance of probability.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit agreement for the loan which  sets out some  of the costs of the 
PPI. This section isnt in small print, it has equal  prominence to the cost details about  the 
loan itself. So I think that Mr S might  have challenged why PPI was detailed  on the form if he 
hadnt agreed to buy it. And actually Mr S hasnt complained that the policy  was added 
without his knowledge or consent. Overall, based on the available evidence, I consider that 
Mr S was likely given  a choice about taking  out the PPI. It seems  to me that he probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
I havent seen  any evidence that AXA advised  Mr S to buy the policy,  so it didnt need to 
ensure that it met his needs. But it did need to provide  Mr S with enough  information  for him 
to make an informed decision about  whether or not it was right for him.
Mr S says he didnt need the policy because he had generous sickness  benefits from his job. 
Hes also said that he had death  in service benefit  and life insurance.
Ref: DRN14887142I think that Mr S must have known something about  the policy  that it would cover his 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because  
I dont think hed have  decided to take it out without knowing anything  at all about  it.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As he would have been aware of his sick pay entitlement,  this 
would have been one of the elements he would have factored in.
The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr 
S would have received full pay for. Although Mr S had life insurance, those policies would 
only pay out upon death, so they were  not replicating the main  purpose of the PPI, which 
was to cover  the loan repayments if Mr S was unable  to work.
In relation to the cost, Mr S would have known from the credit agreement  that the policy 
premium cost £275.83 and that the monthly  cost would be £13.28. AXA failed to make it 
clear what  the interest amount on the premium would be. However,  the interest over the 
term of the loan was £69.43 or £2.67  per month.  Overall Im not persuaded that Mr S would 
have done something different, and decided  against buying the PPI, if information  about the 
interest had been  made clearer.
Mr S says that, because  of the nature of his job, any injury  he received was unlikely  to be 
covered. This is because  the policy excluded claims resulting  from riot or civil disorder. This 
clause is one that is common to most insurance policies and is generally not considered   to 
be a significant  term that businesses  have  to draw to someones attention. I accept that this 
may have  been  an important term for Mr S, due to his job. Therefore if this had been an 
advised sale I would have expected AXA to highlight the term and consider how it might 
impact on the suitability of the policy. However, as I have already found, this was a non-
advised sale. Also, Im not persuaded that Mr S would have thought that any accident or 
illness he might  suffer would, most likely, be the result of riot or civil disorder.
Ive found that Mr S chose to take the policy out, so I consider  he must have had some 
interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. Its possible that AXA could have 
provided more information  about the PPI. However, having considered all the evidence and 
arguments in this case, I consider it more  likely  than not that Mr S would still have taken out 
the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what he thought he was getting and I consider 
that the policy could have  provided a useful benefit  at what would have been a difficult time.  
And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out 
the policy in any event. So he isnt any worse off as a result  of anything  AXA may have done 
wrong, so theres  nothing  AXA needs to do to put things right.  It follows  that I do not uphold 
Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN14887143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1488714