K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1998.  He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
The policy covered Mr L for unemployment only and was free for the first six months.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,    
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive considered that this sale took place  in a meeting, but based on what  Ive seen, I dont 
think that a recommendation was made to take PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint because:
Ive seen copies  of some of the paperwork completed at the time of sale. On Mr Ls 
signed mortgage application  form, a tick has been placed next to an option  to apply 
for PPI. The words send  out quotation have  also been  handwritten  by who isnt 
clear.
Ive also seen a copy of a separate PPI application form thats been completed and 
Mr L has signed separately to confirm  that he wanted to take PPI. 
So, on balance, I think Yorkshire  made  Mr L aware that he had a choice  about  buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did still have to give Mr L good  enough information  about the policy so 
he could decide  if it was right for him and if he wanted to take the policy out.
The cost of the policy was shown on Mr Ls separate PPI application form, so I think 
Mr L wouldve understood how much he would need to pay for it. 
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But    
Mr L doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ls comments, including  what  hes said about his savings and 
being able to rely on his wife to help him make his repayments. But this policy could have 
paid out for up to 12 months, which is for longer than Mr Ls savings  likely  would have  lasted. 
Although Mr Ls wife may well have  wanted  to help him, she may not have been in a position  
to help when needed as circumstances can change.  
Ref: DRN14498982Mr L has made reference to having redundancy cover. No supporting evidence has been 
provided of any separate policy so I havent  been able to place the weight that Mr L may 
have wanted me to on it and these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1449898