K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance,  for damage to a car that he 
returned at the end of his hire agreement. Hes being helped  with his complaint by his 
representative.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr J under a hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz Finance that he 
signed in January 2017. The car was collected  from him and inspected  by a third party  on 
behalf of Mercedes-Benz Finance when the agreement ended  in January 2019. The 
inspection report identified damage  to three of the wheels  and two of the tyres and that the 
car was excessively soiled and recommended charges totalling £1,834.65. Mercedes-Benz 
Finance charged  that amount to Mr J. He complained about the charges and it offered to 
reduce them  by 20% but Mr J complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance should amend the charge for the wheels  to reflect  a repair  or waive 
the costs but he felt that the charges  for the tyres  were fair and he didnt believe that there 
had been any disagreement regarding the valet charge.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that the damage  is clearly evident, its unable  to use tools to gauge  the 
depth of a gouge and it relies on the testimony  of the third partys trained inspectors. It also 
says that the inspection  report is evidence  of its loss and confirmation that the condition the 
car was returned in fell far outside what its vehicle return standards  regard as acceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Finances vehicle return standards were included in the hire agreement that 
was signed by Mr J. They  say that minor  scuffing or damage  under 25mm to the vehicle 
alloy or steel rim edge  or wheel face  are acceptable and that cracked or distorted wheel 
trims and scuff chips and scratches  exceeding  25 mm are unacceptable.
The inspection report identified that one wheel was excessively damaged  and was non 
repairable and that two other wheels had gouges over 4mm deep. It recommended  that the 
three wheels  should  be replaced  at a cost of £499.35 for each wheel. It also identified  that 
two tyres were cut and should be replaced at a cost of £163.30  for each  tyre and that the 
cars exterior was excessively soiled and a valet charge of £10 was recommended.  
Photos of the damage were  included in the report and I consider it to be clear from the 
photos that the wheels  shown were damaged. But the photos werent labelled  and no 
measurement tool was used to clearly  show the extent of the damage. I consider it to be 
likely that the damage to at least one of the wheels is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear. But I dont consider that the photos  show  any gouges 
that are 4mm deep and Im not persuaded  that the evidence  thats  been  provided shows that 
the three damaged wheels needed  to be replaced rather  than repaired. 
Ref: DRN18181322Im not persuaded that the charges for the three replacement wheels are justified in these  
circumstances. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to 
remove those charges from Mr Js account.
The inspection report says that two of the tyres were cut and needed to be replaced.  The 
vehicle repair standards say that any cuts in the tyre wall are unacceptable. I consider it to 
be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mr J for the cost of replacing 
the two damaged tyres. Neither Mr J nor his representative seems to have disputed  the £10 
charge for valeting the car  and I also consider  that charge to be fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and I order  Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to remove the charges 
for the damage  to the three wheels from his account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1818132