K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
background
In June 2018, Mr W paid to check-in  an LCD TV on his flight  home  to the UK. And on arrival 
he found it had been damaged, with an estimated repair cost of £320. Mr W contacted the 
airline, and in mid-June 2018, Mr W made a damaged baggage claim for this with AXA. 
After gathering some information from Mr W about his claim AXA initially said he didnt  have 
gadget cover. Mr W disagreed that the TV should be considered a gadget, AXA went  on to 
consider it under the baggage section of his policy and initially said Mr Ws claim was 
excluded under this. Following further  correspondence from Mr W, AXA agreed to pay him 
the single  article limit amount of £200  under the baggage  cover. It said while  his policy 
wasnt intended to cover TVs, it would pay this due to ambiguous policy  wording. And, after 
exchanging more information with Mr W, AXA paid him this amount  at the end of September  
2018. 
Mr W complained  to AXA as he was unhappy with the amount it had paid him and how it had 
handled his claim. 
With regards to the claim handling he said AXA breached data protection  legislation by 
asking for irrelevant personal information  about,  for example, his outward journey,  the 
purpose of his trip and why he purchased the TV abroad. As well as asking for a property 
irregularity form, which he says only relates  to missing or lost luggage.  Mr W says AXA 
asked for information  about the luggage he checked in when hed already given it this. And 
that AXA didnt  need to ask him for the repair estimate  if it was only going  to pay him £200.
Mr W also says AXA attempted to decline his claim for more than one reason before paying  
it, but now it wont pay the full repair cost for his TV. He says if AXA doesnt consider it falls 
within the baggage section of his policy, then the £200 single item limit shouldnt  apply. Mr W 
says hes lost out on the cost and use of his TV, as well as the airline check-in cost he paid - 
he feels AXA should contact the airline on his behalf  to reclaim this. He also says AXA didnt 
respond to him in its own timescales.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint. She said AXA didnt  act unreasonably 
in requesting the information it did from Mr W. And its offer to pay him the single article limit 
amount of £200  was fair. Mr W didnt agree. So Mr Ws complaints been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
AXA has paid Mr W £200 for the damaged TV under the baggage section. It says the 
wording is ambiguous. I agree with this. The policy defines baggage as:
Ref: DRN19908242luggage, clothing,  personal effects and other  articles (but excluding  valuables, ski 
equipment, golf equipment, business equipment, gadgets, personal money and documents 
of any kind) which belong  to you (or for which you are legally  responsible) which  are worn, 
used or carried by you during any trip. 
The TV was something  that was carried  by Mr W during  his trip. So I think  it does fall within 
the luggage section of the policy. That means  that AXA was correct to apply a single item 
limit of £200.  As AXAs  accepted and paid Mr Ws claim on the basis  of ambiguous policy  
wording, I havent  considered this any further.  
Ive gone on to consider the service  Mr W received. However, due to the informal  nature of 
this service I wont address every  point hes made - instead Ill look at the overall service 
from AXA. 
 
When considering  Mr Ws claim, AXA needed to, and was entitled to, ask relevant  questions 
to assess it and gather evidence relating  to Mr Ws version of events. AXA explained to 
Mr W why it was asking for this information.  And I dont think it asked for anything 
inappropriate or unexpected for claims of this nature. For example, AXA asked for 
information about Mr Ws outward journey to confirm  it met the definition of a trip in the way 
the policy requires   as part of this it had to establish it was a return journey that began and 
ended in his home area. And while I appreciate the claim took longer than Mr W expected, 
this was partly because he didnt cooperate with all of AXAs requests for information. 
AXA hasnt acted unfairly by not trying to reclaim the additional amount Mr W feels  hes lost 
out on from the airline for him - its already told Mr W the airline will only usually correspond  
with him directly. And, in any case, this isnt something wed usually expect  AXA to do. It isnt 
the role of the insurer to try to recover all costs for Mr W, and if he still thinks  he is due 
money from the airline, he should contact it himself.
AXA did ask Mr W for evidence  of his luggage again when hed already provided this when  
making his claim. And it initially declined his claim on the basis  of not having gadget cover, 
when I think it was clear he was claiming  on his baggage cover from his initial claim letter. 
This must have been frustrating for Mr W and I think AXA should pay a small amount of 
compensation for this to Mr W. In the circumstances, I feel £50 is a fair amount. Im not 
asking it to do anything  further on top of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay 
Mr W £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1990824