K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained about the valuation Ageas Insurance  Limited gave  them after a
claim on their motor  insurance policy. They also complained about the service provided and
time taken  to deal with their claim.
References to Ageas  include  its agent.
background
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs As car was involved in a collision while  parked.  The insurer 
said the car was a total loss. So Mr and Mrs A asked for the car to be returned. Under the 
terms of the policy  it was required to pay Mr and Mrs A the market value of their car. It 
valued the car at £3,360,  and deducted around £430  as the cars  salvage value because
Mr and Mrs A had kept the car. So Mr and Mrs A got around  £2,900,  as well as getting their 
car back.
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs As car was involved  in another  collision while  parked outside  
their home. Mr and Mrs A said Ageas told them their car was worth £2,400. But then said 
they would  only be entitled to £600.  Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the value Ageas gave 
and they didnt think it had explained  why that was the amount it was offering if their car was 
valued much  higher.
Ageas said Mr and Mrs A hadnt had most of the damage from the first accident repaired.
And taking  into account the repairs that needed doing it thought £600 was the cars  value.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. They  said as their car 
was in a roadworthy condition it should be worth £2,400. They  also said dealing  with this 
claim has caused them distress and inconvenience. They  highlighted that they live in a 
remote location and have young children, so a car is very important to them. Ageas didnt 
agree it had delayed things unnecessarily, and maintained  the value it had given was 
correct, so didnt  award anything  for distress or inconvenience caused.
Ageas said in an effort to resolve things it would increase its valuation to £899. To reach this 
figure it said the market  value of the car without any damage was £3,360 according to a 
motor trade  guide.  It said it estimated the pre-existing damage to cost £4,923.84 to repair. In 
line with the approach used by the Institute of Automotive Engineers Assessors (IAEA) it 
divided that repair cost in half and deducted it from the settlement. Ageas said this figure 
also hadnt made any deduction for the car previously being a total loss.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept this valuation as they still thought their car was worth  more. They 
said Ageas repair estimate was wrong and the original repair estimate from the time of the 
first accident  was for around £3,000. So they thought  Ageas should  use that to calculate  the 
cars value.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint,  however neither  Mr and Mrs A or 
Ageas agreed. So the case  came  to me for a decision. I issued a provisional  decision on 14 
February 2019 where explained I was planning  to uphold the complaint in part. I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding part of 
this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed, so Id like to explain why. 
Ref: DRN19444702the value of the car
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs As policy say that where their car is damaged the 
most Ageas will pay is the market  value of the car at the time of the loss. It defines market 
value as the cost of replacing the car with another  of the same make, model  and 
specification, age, mileage and condition immediately before the damage happened. So 
what I need to consider  is whether Ageas has provided a fair valuation of the cars market  
value.
Mr and Mrs A and Ageas disagree over which engineers report is most  accurate when 
showing the pre-existing damage on the car. The estimate Mr and Mrs A provided says 
repair work will be around £3,000.  The one Ageas has provided says repairs for the damage 
caused by the first accident would be around £4,920. Having considered  both reports  Im 
more persuaded  by the estimate Mr and Mrs A have provided  as this was done at the time.
The second  report  was produced based  only on photographs and at a later date. Also,  
considering the damage, the estimate Mr and Mrs A provided seems more consistent  and 
proportional to the damage done.  But I dont think that matters to the outcome  of this 
complaint.
While we generally consider the approach used by IAEA to provide a fair outcome when 
considering how pre-existing damage  effects a valuation I also need  to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the specific circumstances of each individual case.
After the first accident Mr and Mrs As car was given a salvage  value  of around £430. The 
salvage value  represents what the car would sell for after being damaged in the first 
accident. So when  the car was returned  to Mr and Mrs A, Ageas thought it was worth around  
£430. And at that time Mr and Mrs A seemed to consider that this was a fair estimate of the 
cars market  value.
I can see Mr and Mrs A did some  minor  repairs to the car. They had a light fixed which  had 
been damaged.  They  also had some  work  done  to the brakes,  but this appears  to be routine 
work rather than as a result of the accident. They also had a MOT and service completed to 
ensure it was roadworthy. So the amount of money they spent to repair any accident 
damage was relatively low. Considering  this, I think its unlikely the value of the car had 
changed considerably from after the first accident.  And so I think  the original figure of £600 
that was offered by Ageas was reasonable as it was more than Ageas deducted as the cars 
salvage value.
The car was originally valued  at around £3,360. After the first accident  Mr and Mrs A 
received around  £2,800 in cash and had use of their car for some  time.  Theyve  not carried 
out any major repairs, and so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for them to receive a 
further £1,860 as that would mean theyve received more in cash then their car was 
originally worth, as well as receiving  their car back for a small period of time.
Ageas has offered £899 (subject  to any excess) to settle this claim. And, I think this is a fair 
and reasonable amount.
the service provided
Mr and Mrs A have  explained theyve found making this claim stressful. Theyve  raised a 
number of points  which Ive considered, however Ive addressed the main  ones here.
Ref: DRN19444703Theyve explained the inconveniences and time this claim has taken have been  exacerbated  
by the fact that they have  a young  child, Mrs A was also heavily pregnant  with their second 
child at the time and they live in a rural part of the country so the car is very important to 
them.
Theyve been travelling  with just one car between themselves, or having  to borrow a car.
However the policy says the provision  of a courtesy car is subject to availability. So Im 
satisfied it makes it clear that a courtesy  car would only be provided  if it was available.
I fully appreciate that not having  a car, especially  in this situation would be very stressful.
And making  a claim like this one would bring a certain amount of distress  and 
inconvenience. But, I wouldnt expect this to be added to by a business.
When Mr and Mrs A spoke to Ageas, a representative tried to explain why it was proposing  
to settle the claim  for £600. Having listened  to the call, I dont the explanation  was very clear.
The representative wasnt able to explain why Ageas had reached  this valuation.  Instead  she 
said the car was worth  £2,400 after the damage, but Mr and Mrs A would  only receive £600 I 
dont think this helped  Mr and Mrs A understand the settlement and I think  its fair Ageas 
compensates them  for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mr and Mrs A say Ageas has caused  delays by forcing them to make  a complaint and not 
providing information to our service in a timely manner. I appreciate it has taken longer to 
settle this than Mr and Mrs A would  have liked. However, I dont think Ageas was wrong to 
offer the initial or revised settlement amount, so I cant say it should pay any compensation 
for this.
The car was a category S write  off. This means its suffered structural  damage,  however is 
still repairable. Mr and Mrs A said Ageas gave  them  incorrect information  about whether they 
could purchase  the car back. In particular Mrs A said the representative told her their 
engineer wouldnt  allow it to be repaired as it would be deemed unsafe. Ive listened to the 
call where this was discussed. The representative says they wouldnt recommend the car is 
put back on the road because its been a total loss twice now.  They also say their engineers 
wouldnt deem it safe. The representative didnt  say it couldnt be put back  on the road. 
Instead they shared their engineers opinion and their recommendation, an opinion  that 
seems reasonable.  Considering Mr and Mrs A bought the car back  after a previous write  off,
I think if they wanted to keep the car they could have asked further questions.  And I dont 
think the representative gave any incorrect information about their ability  to repair  the car.
Having considered the service provided, I think there were times  where  Ageas could have 
explained things  better,  and this led to some confusion. So I think  Ageas should pay
Mr and Mrs A £150 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs A said they rejected my findings  and responded with a number of points  
including:
they didnt  agree with my findings on the value of the car.  
they felt Ageas hadnt been  penalised  considering I was more  persuaded by           
Mr and Mrs As estimate for repair of the damage. 
some  issues  that had happened later hadnt  been addressed
Ref: DRN19444704Ageas also responded to my findings. It said it felt it had already overpaid for the car, and so 
shouldnt have to pay a further  amount to recognise distress and inconvenience. 
My findings
Mr and Mrs A responded to my provisional  decision  with a number of points. While Ive 
considered all of these, Ive only addressed what I consider to be the main ones here.
Mr and Mrs A dont  feel £600 represents the market value of the car. Theyve  quoted the 
figure of £2,400 that the Ageas  representative mentioned on the phone. As I said in my 
provisional decision I dont think this call was helpful in understanding the settlement.  They  
bought it back  after the first accident  for £430, so I think this is what it was worth after their 
first accident. 
They say they had had some work done to the car (specifically to the CAM belt and water 
pump) before the first accident so know it was worth more than £430. Theyve explained this 
is why they were eager to buy it back. I appreciate this, however this is the amount that the 
insurer sold the car back to Mr and Mrs A for after the first accident,  and Ageas in now 
offering double this to settle the claim.  And considering the minimal repairs that were  done 
and money that was spent on the car in between the two accidents, I think  Ageas offer of 
£899 is a fair and reasonable  outcome  for this particular complaint. 
Mr and Mrs A have  mentioned some  of the issues  that theyve had after the car was taken 
away and stored. As our investigator has explained, these would need to be dealt with 
separately as they happened after Mr and Mrs A complained to Ageas.  And so I havent 
considered these issues here and they dont  form any part of my award for distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Our role is to look at individual complaints.  And we dont use awards  for distress and 
inconvenience to penalise businesses. So the award  Ive suggested is to recognise the 
confusion caused  to Mr and Mrs A by Ageas  when  settling  this claim. 
Ageas has said its going  to overpay  for the car and so it doesnt think  it should pay a 
separate award for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate  its point, however it offered 
£899 through our service and  Ageas wasnt as clear  as it could have been when discussing 
the settlement  and so I think it ought to send Mr and Mrs A a separate  payment for distress  
and inconvenience.  As these are payments for two separate  things, I dont  consider one to 
offset the other. Having considered both responses I still feel £150  is fair and reasonable for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  here. 
Ref: DRN19444705my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I direct  Ageas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs A: 
- £899 (subject  to any excess) to settle their claim; and
- £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience
Ageas should  pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr and Mrs A have accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest to the compensation at 8% simple per 
year from the date of the claim to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
1 If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs A a 
certificate showing  this if they asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1944470