K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained about the outcome of their home insurance claim and delays 
in its handling.
background
In April 2017, Mr and Mrs N made a claim under their home insurance policy with Legal & 
General Insurance Limited (L&G). Theyd been away on holiday when a fire at their 
neighbours property caused damage  to the extension at the rear of their own home.
A third party  company,  Cunningham Lindsey  (CL) was appointed  to manage the claim on 
L&Gs behalf. CL appointed a surveyor to assess the damage to their home  and provide a 
schedule of works for the repairs. Mr and Mrs N appointed their own loss assessor to 
manage the claim on their behalf. Following a joint site inspection,  L&G offered a cash  
settlement of around £20,553.35 to Mr and Mrs N in relation to building  reinstatement work. 
L&G also agreed  to pay Mr and Mrs Ns surveyors fee, as well as an allowance  of £250 for 
the period of time when  the ceiling would need to be removed. L&G also offered £100 
compensation for poor service. Mr and Mrs Ns own contractors provided quotes of closer to 
£25,000 for repairs.
Mr and Mrs N, unhappy that L&G refused  to offer the equivalent of their cheapest quote, and 
unhappy with delays in the handling of the claim,  brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought L&Gs offer was fair. He said the 
policy terms state that L&G could offer a cash settlement and that the amount of any offer 
wouldnt exceed the minimum cost for which theyd be able to arrange to have the work 
done. He also thought  L&G didnt  have to offer any more for delays in handling the claim, as 
he thought that although  its offers had been  rejected,  L&G had made reasonable attempts  to 
settle the claim fairly.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed  with our investigators  assessment and so the complaint has come  
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked in particular at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy  with L&G,  the 
schedule of works, the various quotes  for work, numerous pieces of correspondence 
between the parties  and what  Mr and Mrs N have said since our investigators assessment. 
Ive also considered how L&G have handled the claim from the outset. 
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs N, but I wont be asking L&G to offer 
any more than it has already. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ns policy state:
We may offer repair or replacement through our approved suppliers. If you prefer  to 
use your own tradesmen, or receive  a cash settlement  for replacement goods 
Ref: DRN14723092instead, we will need to agree this with you beforehand. Any payment will generally 
not exceed the discounted amount we would have paid to our chosen  supplier.
Im satisfied based on this, and having considered L&Gs offer, that it was entitled to offer the 
amount it would cost for its contractors to carry out the necessary repair work, as specified  in 
the schedule of works prepared by CLs appointed  surveyors.
The cost of repairs through  L&Gs  contractors  was cheaper than the lowest  quote  Mr and 
Mrs N obtained. This isnt unusual, as insurance companies often have established 
relationships with networks  of building contractors and these relationships can mean 
insurers are able to take advantage of pre-agreed rates which  are below market  prices. 
I dont think it would  be fair to ask L&G to pay the equivalent of Mr and Mrs Ns cheapest 
quote to have the work carried out, when this is more than it wouldve cost L&G if it had 
appointed its own builders to do the same work. So I think L&G has done what  it was 
required to do under the policy,  by offering to cash settle for the amount it wouldve had to 
pay its contractors.
There has been some dispute around the schedule of works, with Mr and Mrs N saying it 
doesnt include repairs originally agreed. L&G has explained that some of the work not 
included in the schedule may have been  discussed  but wasnt confirmed as being needed at 
the time the property was inspected, but that if it becomes apparent that itll need  to be 
carried out once  the repairs commence, then L&Gs offer can be revised accordingly. I dont 
think thats unreasonable, and having looked carefully at the schedule of works and other 
evidence, including  photographs of the damage,  I think the schedule covers  the main  areas  
affected by the fire and requiring repair or replacement.
I know Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with how long its taken L&G to deal with the claim.  But 
having considered everything thats happened, I think L&Gs  offer of £100  for poor service  is 
reasonable. L&G offered to have the work  carried out by its contractors and I can see it 
began this process, but that the process  was halted early on when Mr and Mrs N wanted to 
appoint their own loss assessor and obtain  their own quotes  for repair  work. While  I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Ns reasons  for doing  so, I dont  think  L&Gs final offer was 
unreasonable. And so I think the repairs couldve been carried  out much sooner, which is 
why I wont be asking  L&G to compensate  Mr and Mrs N further for delays.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Ifrah Malik
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1472309