K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that AXA Insurance UK PLC declined their claim for loss of rent following a 
leak from the boiler.
Mrs S was represented during this complaint by a third party,  but for ease of reading,  any 
reference to Mrs S also includes the actions of her representative. 
background
Mrs S had flat insurance with AXA for a property she rents out. She made a claim after a 
leak from the boiler damaged a wall in one of the bedrooms. 
The leak was reported to Mrs S by the tenant shortly before the end of the tenancy  in 
November 2017.  The tenant moved  out before the end of the tenancy due to the damp. 
Mrs S arranged dehumidifiers  and dried  the wall. 
Mrs S says she was unable to rent the flat until the end of January 2018 after she had been  
able to redecorate  following  the drying process. Due to this she made  a claim for loss of rent 
between November 2017 and January 2018. AXA declined the claim  and Mrs S made a 
complaint.
AXA didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the policy only covers loss of rent when  the flat is  
unfit to live in and it didnt think that applied in this case. Mrs S disagreed and brought  the 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint wasnt  
upheld. He thought that although the damp  may have made the flat more  difficult to rent out, 
it wasnt unfit to live in so would be excluded under the policy. Mrs S didnt agree so asked 
for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA says that it declined Mrs S claim for loss of rent because  the policy only provides  cover 
when Your Flat or Private Dwelling House is unfit to live in  It says the damp caused by 
the leak of water didnt  make the flat unfit to live in, so it wouldnt be covered. Further,  it says 
it would  have taken  a number of weeks to process the relevant checks for new tenants 
anyway, so a short  delay to a tenancy due to repairs would be unlikely to put prospective 
tenants off. I need  to decide whether AXA has treated Mrs S fairly  in the circumstances. 
As the insurance  policy doesnt define the term unfit to live in I have considered what  a 
reasonable interpretation of the phrase would be. Using a standard understanding of the 
words, I would consider  the phrase to mean that the flat would be unsafe  or unhealthy for 
people to live there or where basic facilities were unusable. So for example  if the kitchen or 
bathroom werent in a usable condition or extensive works on the property left it unsafe. 
I have considered whether the damp in Mrs S flat meets this definition  of unfit to live in. I 
understand living in a flat that has damp would be unpleasant. However as the damp only 
affected one wall of one of the bedrooms, it would be possible to only live in the other rooms  
Ref: DRN10056542in the flat to avoid the damp completely.  Particularly as it isnt the only bedroom in the flat, so 
it would  be possible to sleep elsewhere. Equally, the drying  process took some time and this 
would have been inconvenient. The dehumidifiers  that were installed may have been  noisy 
which would be frustrating  to live with. But again,  this would have been avoidable as drying 
was only taking place  in one room. I therefore  cant say the flat would  have been  unfit to live 
in, as I dont think  it meets  a reasonable definition of the phrase. 
I have also considered the fact that the process  of drying the wall would have delayed Mrs S 
being able to get tenants into the property.  I agree that the flat wouldnt have  been  suitable 
to rent while the wall was still being dried. And this process  took a number  of weeks  to carry 
out. However the process of securing  tenants  would usually take a number of weeks  too. 
The house  would need to be put on the market,  viewings arranged  and then the relevant 
credit and employment checks carried out. So although I appreciate  the flat was without 
tenants for around  seven weeks, I dont think the delay caused by the drying process would 
have had a significant impact on the amount of time this took. And although the process 
would have made it harder to rent out, I dont think it made it unfit to live in during that time.
Mrs S has provided evidence that a number of potential tenants decided not to proceed  with 
the flat due to the damp. I understand  why potential tenants may be reluctant  to proceed,  as 
they could likely find a flat that wasnt being  treated for damp instead.  However  I think  this 
would be because of their preference, rather than because it wasnt fit to live in. The policy  
provides cover for when a flat is unfit to live in and not for when its not possible to rent it out. 
And I think in this case it may have been unfit to rent out but I dont think it meets a 
reasonable definition of unfit to live in. AXA has pointed out.  So  I dont dispute that the 
damp may have put potential tenants off, but I think  AXAs decision that this wouldnt be 
covered under the policy is fair.
For all these reasons, I dont think the flat met a reasonable definition  of unfit to live in. 
Further, I dont think the delays caused by the drying  process  added  a significant delay to 
getting tenants into the flat. I therefore  think AXA have applied  the terms of the policy  fairly 
and wont require it to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint. I therefore wont  require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1005654