K820x#14complaint
Ms K has a car insurance policy with Ageas  Insurance Limited  (Ageas). She complains that 
Ageas has avoided her policy and will not settle her claim  as a result of this. Ms K is 
represented by her son although she mainly  communicated with us herself.
background
Ms K took out a policy of car insurance. Her son, G, was added  as a named driver. In 
November 2016,  G was involved in an accident  and Ms K made  a claim. Ageas avoided the 
policy and declined the claim because they said Ms K had made a misrepresentation when 
she took out her insurance. Ms K complained to Ageas, but they maintained their decision, 
so she complained to us. Another ombudsman eventually suggested Ageas reinstate Ms Ks 
policy and consider her claim and Ageas  agreed to do this. We explained to Ms K this didnt 
mean the claim would  be paid automatically, just that Ageas would be considering  her claim 
under their standard  claims process.
Ms K complained to Ageas again  in December 2018 about the delay in considering the 
claim. She said shed  spent months chasing them and had provided  all the documents  theyd 
requested. In particular,  she said shed sent them the vehicle registration document  (the V5) 
and a bill of sale in October 2018.  She also said Ageas  staff had treated her in an unfair and 
discriminatory manner.
Ms K has said the delay  has had a serious effect on her finances and health. And she has 
depended on her children to drive  her around.
In January 2019, Ageas issued their final response  letter. In respect  of the documents 
required, Ageas explained  they needed  evidence to prove that Ms K was the owner as well 
as the registered keeper, as declared when applying for cover.  But the copy  of the V5 shed  
provided was blurred and incomplete.  So, they couldnt validate the ownership of the car. 
And while the bill of sale identified the previous  owner and the selling price,  it omitted any 
address or contact  details for the vendor. Ageas said these  details were  required as with 
such a high value  sale, they couldnt proceed  with the claim without them.
Ageas also said they could  find no evidence  of delays and pointed  out that Ms K herself had 
been uncooperative. And they said that having  read through all the correspondence and 
listened to all the call recordings, theyd found no evidence whatsoever that staff had treated 
her in an unfair and discriminatory manner.
Ms K was unhappy  with this response and, in May 2019, complained  to us. We explained 
Ageas requirements  to Ms K and asked her to provide the documentation needed. Ageas 
also continued to request  complete copies  of the V5 and bill of sale.
In August  2019,  our investigator sent out her first view. She said she thought  Ms K had sent 
all the evidence that Ageas required and recommended  they settle her claim.  She also said 
Ageas should  also pay £400  to Ms K for distress and inconvenience.
Ms K accepted our view,  although she queried whether the £400 was enough because  of the 
impact on her of being without a car over two or three years.
Ageas disagreed with our view. They said the V5 was still incomplete. The document  
reference numbers  werent on the document supplied. And there  were  no bar codes  visible.  
Ref: DRN12711802They also asked for the bill of sale again because it showed a payment being  made  but no 
vendor address or reference. And they asked whether Ms Ks car was bought  on finance.
We further clarified with Ms K that Ageas required a clear, scanned  copy  of the entire V5. 
And pointed  out the bill of sale didnt have the vendors address or any details. We asked for 
these and any receipts from card payments or bank statements showing the relevant 
transactions. We also asked whether the vehicle had been  bought  on finance.
In December 2019, Ms K finally produced scans of the entire V5, and the back of the bill of 
sale which included two addresses for the vendor. Ageas accepted the V5 appeared to 
confirm Ms K as registered keeper of the car. But they said the bill of sale only differed  in 
that it had two addresses for the vendor on the back of the document (which  hadnt been 
seen until then). Ms K didnt send any other evidence.
Our investigator sent out her second  view in February 2020. She said that Ms Ks policy  
obliged her to provide  full disclosure and Ageas could decline her claim or cancel the policy 
if she didnt. So, she didnt think Ageas had been unreasonable  in requesting a complete 
copy of the V5 and bill of sale. She said she could  also see that the original bill of sale didnt 
include an address  or contact details for the vendor, so Ageas couldnt verify the information 
on the document. And when Ms K had provided  a copy of the bill of sale which included the 
vendors addresses, Ageas were sceptical because she hadnt provided it earlier.  So, Ageas 
had decided not to accept  the bill of sale as valid and our investigator thought this was 
understandable. She didnt think Ageas had done anything  wrong.  And she wouldnt be 
asking them to do anything further,  or to cover any losses or award  any compensation.
In March, Ms K wrote at length  to explain why she rejected our view.  She reiterated  that the 
bill of sale was authentic and she had provided  this to Ageas when asked to do so. So, the 
case has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see from the file that in October 2018,  Ageas told Ms K that they needed  evidence  of 
ownership - an "insurable interest". They explained this meant she had a financial interest  in 
the car and was made financially worse off when something happened to it. They also 
explained that the V5 didnt prove  ownership,  only the identification of the registered keeper. 
And Ageas told Ms K that her claim wouldnt be progressed until the V5 and bill of sale had 
been received  and Ageas were satisfied with them. So, I think it was made perfectly  clear  to 
Ms K what was required  and why. I dont think any of this was unfair or unreasonable  
because Ageas were  only following their standard claims procedure.
Its also clear  from the correspondence that what Ageas wanted to see were  clear, complete 
copies of these  documents.  I know Ms K insisted shed provided these already, but I can see 
that she originally  sent only pages  1 and 2 of the V5, on different occasions,  and without the 
document reference numbers and bar codes  visible. And one occasion, in October 2018, Ms 
K told Ageas shed  provide the bill of sale, if they could give her a valid reason to send it.
Ref: DRN12711803Even after our involvement, and after our first view,  when  we explained Ageas requirements 
to Ms K and asked  her to provide these documents  again, she sent them  separately, without 
reference numbers  and bar codes. And she seemed reluctant to provide the last two pages. 
I note that Ms K was asked again for these  documents  in October, and again in November 
2019 at least three  times. She finally sent them in December and, because of staff illness,  
Ageas received them at the beginning of February 2020. But Ageas were sceptical as to the 
authenticity of the bill of sale in particular. Because only after theyd  repeatedly asked for 
these documents  did Ms K produce what she said had been  in her possession  all along, ie. 
the full bill of sale showing the vendors addresses. And the bill of sale wasn't on official or 
even letter-headed paper.
Ageas are making further enquiries and still considering Ms Ks evidence, as theyre entitled 
to. And given the lack of co-operation by Ms K which Ive set out above, I dont think  its 
unfair or unreasonable for Ageas not to have resolved her claim yet. So, Im not going  to 
uphold Ms Ks complaint and make  them  pay her claim.
But Ageas should carry on with, and complete, their procedures as soon as practically 
possible. And theyve  also told us they intend  to contact Ms K to explain where things  stand 
and I think they should,  if they havent  done  so already.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1271180