K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about issues theyve experienced with a kitchen supplied  with 
finance from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.
background
In January 2018 Mr M ordered a new kitchen  from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Hitachi. 
In July 2018 Mrs M contacted Hitachi to complain that the finance  had been  activated. She 
said shed been  told by the salesman that they wouldnt need to start monthly  payments 
under the finance agreement until they were happy  with the installation.  She said there were 
a number of issues  with the kitchen  and that she hadnt signed off on the installation  so the 
finance agreement  shouldntve been  activated. 
Hitachi said that as soon as the retailer deemed the installation complete and paid its 
approved installers  the finance  agreement  was automatically triggered.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He was persuaded that there were outstanding issues  
with the kitchen and that it was wrong  to start the finance agreement  whilst these issues 
remained unresolved.  He recommended two options  to resolve  the complaint. Option 1 was:
Repair of replace  the work surfaces and units that were damaged or faulty
Have the electrics and plumbing  looked at and signed  off by a qualified professional
Refund payments  made for the time the kitchen couldnt be used  or where  there was 
impaired use
No further loan payments to be taken until the kitchen is of a good standard. Hitachi  
to meet  the payments  in the meantime
Compensation of £600
Option 2 was:
Allow rejection of the kitchen
Remove the kitchen  at no cost to Mr M.
Refund the deposit with 8% interest
Refund payments  made
Compensation of £600
Remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit  file
Hitachi responded and said it wasnt liable for electrics and plumbing because this wasnt  
part of the installation contract agreed with the retailer but were  specialist works under a 
separate contract.  In relation to a refund of payments for the time the kitchen couldnt be 
used, Hitachi said that even if there were issues with the goods, they still needed to be paid 
for. It said that no further loan payments would be taken until the kitchen was of a good 
standard because  Hitachi  would reschedule these. It agreed to pay £600 compensation but 
said the requirement that Hitachi cover the monthly  payments until the installation issues 
were resolved was disproportionate. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed to Option 1. Hitachi arranged  for the retailer to visit the property and 
arranged for the outstanding issues to be rectified,  which has now been completed  to Mr and 
Ref: DRN10539582Mrs Ms satisfaction. Hitachi refunded  the payments made by Mr M and paid £600 
compensation. It rescheduled the finance agreement to start in November 2019.
When the payments  started in November 2019  Mrs M noticed that Hitachi  had used the 
original loan amount  rather  than giving credit for the payments  which would have been made 
since July 2018  which the investigator  said Hitachi should pay.
Hitachi has said it has complied with Option  1. It said it refunded all the payments made  by 
Mr M since July 2018, paid compensation of £600 and rescheduled the agreement to start 
once the remedial work had been completed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there were outstanding issues  with the installation. These have now 
been resolved.  However, at the time when  this service looked at the complaint and issued a 
view these issues hadnt been resolved.
Both parties  accepted Option 1 as set out in the view but there  is a difference of opinion 
between Mr and Mrs M and Hitachi  as to what is required to be done under that option. So 
Ive focussed  on what was meant to happen under Option 1.
The area of disagreement relates to point 4 of Option 1. This says No further loan payments 
to be taken until the kitchen is of good  standard, so this would mean  these payments are to 
be met by Hitachi. 
The agreement was triggered in July 2018.  The installation  wasnt  rectified until October 
2019. I can see that Mr M has had any payments hes made since July 2018 refunded.  But 
instead of giving credit against the amount outstanding for the payments which wouldve 
been made during the period when the kitchen remained  defective,  Hitachi  has rescheduled 
the agreement  to start in November 2019 with the original loan amount (less a credit for a 
returned washing machine).
Its clear from the correspondence  which followed the investigators view that Hitachi broadly 
agreed to option  1. But crucially, it didnt agree with the suggestion that it should cover the 
monthly payments  under the agreement until the installation issues were  resolved. It said 
this was disproportionate.
Ive reconsidered  everything and Ive thought  about  what is a fair and reasonable resolution.  
Ive had regard  to the issues with the installation as at July 2018  and the impaired use that 
Mr and Mrs M have  suffered as a result. This includes  (amongst other things) incorrectly 
fitted sink and taps, incorrectly  fitted doors rendering cupboard space unusable  and 
misaligned doors rendering fridge impossible to close. Ive taken into account that Mr and 
Mrs M suffered impaired use of the kitchen for many months until they were  finally  rectified.
In these circumstances, this service would  generally look to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have  been in had installation been satisfactory. So in this case, Mr and 
Mrs M ought  to have had a satisfactory kitchen in July 2018 and Mr M would have started 
making monthly payments under the agreement. Instead they were left with an 
Ref: DRN10539583unsatisfactory kitchen  which remained in that condition for a long time. Mr M started making 
payments in July 2018.
On balance, I think its fair, given the length  of time Mr and Mrs M had to suffer the impact  of 
impaired use, to require Hitachi to give credits  for the payments which  Mr M would otherwise  
have made.  Rescheduling the agreement  to start when the installation was competed to a 
satisfactory standard doesnt adequately compensate Mr and Mrs M for the impaired use. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im treating impaired use as different to trouble and upset, which 
should be compensated separately. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  To the extent that it hasnt done so already I 
require Hitachi Capital  (UK) Plc to:
Arrange for the defective  parts  of the kitchen to be repaired/replaced
Arrange for  qualified  professional to sign off the electrics  and plumbing
Refund any payments  made by Mr M for the period  when installation  hadnt been 
completed to a  satisfactory  standard
Give credit for the payments which would otherwise have been made by Mr M for the 
period when installation hadnt  been completed to a satisfactory standard to reflect 
impaired use
Pay compensation of £600 for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1053958