K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide  Building Society  caused her significant distress  when it 
failed to process a payment to her account.  She says the stress and worry she suffered had 
very serious  consequences for her.
 
background 
Miss M says she receives a regular payment from the Department  of Work and Pensions 
(DWP), and that on 31 January, just over £265 shouldve been  paid in to her bank account. 
She says she contacted  Nationwide  on 1 February because  the payment wasnt  in her 
account and she says the bank gave her conflicting information. Miss M told us:
Nationwide said the DWP payment had been  received but that it had been sent back  
because an incorrect reference  had been quoted  so the payment couldnt be 
matched to her as the beneficiary. 
She complained  to the bank and it admitted  that her recent DWP payments had held 
the same  incorrect reference but, on previous occasions, Nationwide  had managed  
to credit the payment to her account.
The missing payment caused her financial hardship; she wasnt able to pay for her 
heating or her childcare and she wasnt able to add credit to her telephone. And the 
stress and worry of this and the many phone  calls to both Nationwide  and DWP had 
very serious consequences for her.
Nationwide hasnt  accepted responsibility for what happened and it hasnt apologised 
to her.
Nationwide upheld Miss Ms initial complaint. It acknowledged shed been  given  conflicting  
information about the payment when  she first contacted it. And it paid her £50 in 
compensation. It explained that DWP wouldnt resubmit the payment, but she wouldnt lose 
out because DWP would  adjust  her future  payments to take this into account.
The bank also says it added the reference  that DWP was using  her National Insurance  
Number  to Miss Ms account profile so that future payments could be reconciled and 
credited correctly. And it asked Miss M to contact DWP and ask it to use the correct 
reference so that the problem wouldnt re-occur in the future. It acknowledged  it had 
correctly reconciled similar DWP  payment  previously and it offered Miss M a further £250 in 
recognition of the errors it had made.
Nationwide says its sorry to hear Miss Ms news, and its very sympathetic to her, but it cant  
be held responsible for what  happened. And it says that although Miss M rejected  its latest  
offer of £250,  this payment is still available to her.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged the additional stress Miss M wouldve suffered due to DWPs policy  of not re-
submitting the payment and the inconvenience this wouldve caused  Miss M. But she didnt 
think she could hold Nationwide  accountable  for the upsetting things that happened  she 
just hadnt seen any evidence that they were directly and solely attributable to the banks 
mistake.
Our investigator did acknowledge the additional  worry and inconvenience  Miss M wouldve 
faced when she couldnt pay for her heating in mid-winter. And she asked Nationwide to 
increase its total compensation to £400,  an increase of £100.
Ref: DRN16736502Miss M disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says Nationwide played a 
big part in what happened and its actions have affected her greatly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this will have been  a very difficult  
time for Miss M and I extend to her my deepest sympathies; no-one  should have to go 
through what shes been through. And I thank her for providing her testimony and 
recollections under what mustve been  very difficult circumstances.
I hope that Miss M wont  take it as a discourtesy that Ive summarised  her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Miss M should 
note, however, that although I may not address each individual  point that shes raised, I have  
given careful consideration to all of her submissions  before arriving  at my decision.
Having considered the evidence, Im afraid I have to tell Miss M that I think the investigator  
has reached entirely the right outcome here.  To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what shes already  said and I think shes set out the position very clearly and in great detail.
First of all its important that I explain  that this Service doesnt  supervise, regulate or 
discipline the businesses  we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise  businesses for 
their performance or behaviour  thats  the role of the regulator, in this case the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and, in this case, see 
if Nationwide  has done anything wrong.  If it has, Ill seek  to put the consumer back  in the 
position they wouldve been  in if the mistakes hadnt happened.  And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Its clear to me that Nationwides actions caused some  problems  for Miss M and Ive noted  
Nationwide has acknowledged  this. It says it wasnt able to process  the payment because  
the reference was incorrect, but it admitted that it had been  able to process other  similarly 
referenced payments in previous months.  I dont know why DWP used the reference it did, 
or indeed,  whether DWP is partially responsible  for the failed payment, but the result was 
that Miss M was left in some financial difficulty in the middle of winter.
Miss M says that because  of this, she wasnt able to add credit to her phone or turn on her 
heating when she wanted and I find her testimony  plausible. Ive taken note of the fact that 
she will have  received  the missing DWP  payment as part of her future DWP  payments but I 
recognise that this will not necessarily  have been when she mightve needed it most. 
And its for this reason  that I think requiring Nationwide pay a higher level of compensation, 
£400 in total, was the fair and reasonable thing to do.
Ive also considered very carefully the other  aspects  of Miss Ms testimony  about  what  
happened in February 2019.  And although Nationwides actions  wont  have helped the 
Ref: DRN16736503situation, I just dont have enough evidence to say that on balance, it caused either of the 
upsetting events. The evidence just isnt strong  enough, so I cant  hold it responsible.
I know this isnt the decision that Miss M was looking for and I know shell be disappointed.  
But I hope she understands  the reason why Ive reached the decision I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that the settlement agreed by Nationwide Building Society is a fair way to 
settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673650