K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs T took out a credit card in June  2001.  At the same time she was sold a PPI policy which  
wouldve helped cover the repayments on her credit card for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. It also provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
Mrs T says she didnt  need the PPI. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ts 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs T applied for the credit card by postal  application. Tesco has provided a copy of Mrs Ts 
original application  form and this shows that Mrs T ticked a box to say she wanted the PPI. 
She couldve left this box blank if she didnt want it, as she did with another  product offered 
on the application form..
On balance, on the information  I have,  I think its likely Mrs T chose to take the PPI knowing 
she didnt have to.
Tesco didnt  provide personal advice  to Mrs T about  the PPI, so it didnt have to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs T had all 
the information about the PPI to make her own decision.
The application form doesnt provide much information about  the policy,  so I think its likely 
Mrs T didnt  have all the information  she ideally shouldve done. But this doesnt  mean  I 
should automatically uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I need to think  about whether Mrs T wouldve 
acted differently if shed  had all the information she needed. 
I dont think more, or better, information wouldve changed Mrs Ts mind  about the policy.  I 
say this because:
Mrs T was eligible  for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs T wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy  wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So it provided  an additional benefit;
Ref: DRN15678422Mrs T wouldve received some redundancy pay, but again   the policy  wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and for up to a year at a time. So any redundancy pay Mrs T 
received from the government or her employer couldve been used for other 
uninsured expenses;
Mrs T says she couldve  relied on her husband  if she couldnt meet her repayments.  
But while  Im sure he wouldve wanted to help if they couldve done, this type of 
support cant be guaranteed. The policy wouldve  meant  Mrs T didnt have  to rely on 
a third party. Its also likely that if Mrs T was out of work her husbands salary would 
have been needed  to cover other  essential  uninsured expenses;
Mrs T says that she and her husband had a small  amount of savings which  could 
have been used to help meet  her repayments.  But the savings wouldnt have lasted  
long and Mr and Mrs T would  still have had other expenses  theyd  need  to have 
covered if Mrs T wasnt able to work;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
So I dont  think Mrs T lost out as a result of Tesco not providing all the information  it 
shouldve done  in relation  to the terms and exclusions of the policy.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint so it follows that Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1567842