K820x#14complaint
Mrs S on behalf of the estate of Mr G complains that Santander UK plc gave Mr Gs stepson 
an account statement  which he used against her. She also complains that Santander gave 
her incorrect  advice  on obtaining a Grant of Probate.
background
Mr G passed away  and the money  in his Santander  account  was transferred to Mrs S. Mrs S 
says Mr Gs stepson took items from Mr Gs home and obtained an account statement from 
Santander when  he attended a branch. She says as a result  he knew  Mrs S had received 
the money from that account and now had her account details. Mrs S also says that 
information was used against her in a Spanish Solicitors  office  as the stepson  refused to 
pay his share of a legal fee.
Mrs S also says Santander gave her incorrect information about  obtaining a Grant  of 
Probate. She would  like compensation for the stress and inconvenience shes  been caused 
and for Santander  to pay her compensation for the extra  Spanish  legal fee.
Santander accepts  it made a mistake by asking for the Grant of Probate. Its apologised and 
paid Mrs S £50 compensation and refunded the Grant  of Probate fee. It says its not 
responsible for what took place in Spain and says it didnt  make a mistake  by providing the 
account statement  to Mr Gs stepson.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought  we could only consider the 
impact Santanders actions had on the estate and not Mrs S. The investigator thought that 
even if Santander  had made  a mistake disclosing the statement then the impact  was on Mrs 
S and not the estate and the loss was not reasonably foreseeable. She thought  overall this 
was a civil dispute better suited to a court.
The investigator did think Santander shouldve asked more questions  of the step son when 
he attended its branch.  But thought its actions were  fair in refunding the fee and paying  
compensation.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to similar 
overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision.
As the investigator  has explained this complaint is brought  by the estate of Mr G and so I 
must consider the impact  on the estate Santanders actions may have had. I think  its likely 
that there  was a dispute between Mrs S and Mr Gs stepson. I say that as Mrs S has told us 
that the stepson took items from Mr Gs property after he passed away and attended a 
Santander branch  to obtain an account  statement.  And he refused to pay his share of the 
legal fee in Spain. So I think on balance that its likely that there  would have been some  form 
of dispute even if Santander  hadnt  disclosed the account statement. And I think  it likely that 
Mr Gs stepson wouldve found out that Mrs S had received  the balance  in the account in 
any event. 
Ref: DRN11341962I dont think its clear  why Santander gave the stepson the account  statement. But I agree 
with the investigator  that I dont think Santander can be held responsible for Mr Gs stepson 
refusing to pay his share of the legal fees. And I make clear that, as I have explained, I dont 
think it was the estate that lost out but Mrs S personally. I also agree with the investigator 
that this appears  to be a civil dispute between Mrs S and Mr Gs stepson over a Spanish 
legal fee. So even if I decided Santander had made  a mistake  by disclosing the account 
statement, then I couldnt fairly conclude the estate had lost out and order Santander to 
repay Mrs Ss legal fees.
There is no doubt here that Santander  did give Mrs S misleading  information about the Grant  
of Probate. But I can see that its apologised and fairly refunded the fee involved and paid 
what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I can see that Mrs Ss main  
complaint concerns the disclosure of the account statement in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1134196