K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about AvantCredit of UK Llc (AvantCredit)  regarding his loan. Mr B feels  
that the business was irresponsible to lend to him and the loan is unaffordable. He wants 
AvantCredit to strip the interest from his loan and to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
him. He also wants the loan to be removed from his credit file. 
background
Mr B applied for a loan of £4000 with AvantCredit in February 2018. At that time, Mr B had 
debts with other lenders, totalling  around  £10,000.  
Mr B included information in is application  about his income and outgoings. He stated that 
his net income  was £2500  per month and that his fixed expenses, including repayment of 
debts, were £1250  per month.  
Mr B has subsequently explained  that his income at the time of application was actually 
around £1800 per month, leaving  him with much  less disposable income.  
AvantCredit accepted the application and released  funds to Mr B. This required repayment 
over 24 months at a rate of around  £230  per month.  
Mr B has made his repayments  on time and in full since.  
In late 2018 Mr B complained to AvantCredit. He advised that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties and felt that he should  not have been  accepted for the loan. 
AvantCredit sent Mr B its final response  in late November 2018.  This did not uphold his 
complaint and set out the processes it had applied  in assessing his application. It explained 
that his credit file had shown that he was repaying  his other debts  successfully and did not 
indicate any financial difficulties. 
It also stated that part of its decision on affordability had been based on the information  he 
provided in his application, about his income and expenditure, and that the loan appeared 
affordable. 
Mr B was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Bs complaint and set out her view to the parties.  
This was that the business  had not done anything wrong and the decision to lend to Mr B 
was reasonable  based  on the information available to AvantCredit at the time of the 
application.
Mr B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had particular  regard to the information available to AvantCredit at the time of Mr Bs 
application, and to his credit file, dated  shortly  after his application.  
Ref: DRN12227212I can appreciate why Mr B now feels that he should not have  received  the loan, given that he 
was in other debt and had made  use of short term loans around that time. I do, however, 
have to base my decision on the information  that was available  to the lender at the time.  
Businesses are required to undertake proportionate  checks before lending.  These  checks  
are not defined, but should  be reasonable. 
AvantCredit has provided evidence it undertook a credit check and scoring process, which  I 
consider was a reasonable process  in light of the amount of the loan. AvantCredit has also 
demonstrated that it assessed the affordability  of Mr Bs loan based on the information  he 
supplied in his application. This information  was inaccurate in that Mr B reported a higher 
income than he was receiving at that time. As a result the analysis was not representative of 
Mr Bs actual  income and outgoings. 
I do not think that AvantCredit  was wrong to lend in these circumstances, and businesses  
are entitled  expect that information provided  to them by customers can be relied  upon.  
Where inaccurate information is provided in an application this is the responsibility of the 
applicant and I do not criticise a business for not knowing that information was misleading.  
I consider that the analysis undertaken by AvantCredit was reasonable and the decision to 
lend was reasonable in the circumstances. As a result I do not uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B has indicated  that he is now suffering financial difficulties  and is struggling  to make his 
repayments. I would recommend  that he discuss his financial difficulties with AvantCredit 
and note that the business is required to treat customers who are suffering financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically. 
 
my final decision
As set out above I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask AvantCredit Uk Llc to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222721