K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 1999  when they jointly applied for a further  
advance on their mortgage. 
background
In August  1999,  Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy to cover their original mortgage which 
they took out in 1984 and a further advance they took out in 1999. The policy  provided cover  
if Mr W couldnt work through accident,  sickness or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to 
them so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W specifically  complained  that they did not consent to PPI being added  to their 
mortgage account. However, I have seen the PPI application and can see Mr and Mrs W 
signed the form requesting 100% cover for Mr W. So by signing,  I think they consented to 
have the optional PPI added to their account.  Mr and Mrs W also said they did not remember  
any conversation about  PPI but I note it only covered Mr W because  Mrs W wasnt  working 
at the time. So I think its reasonable  to say there probably was some  discussion about their 
PPI needs as the policy was tailored to cover Mr W only at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds recommended the policy to them and Ill also continue  on the basis  that it was an 
advised sale. For an advised sale, Lloyds had to make  sure the policy  was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Ws needs. And having  looked  at their circumstances at the time of the sale, I think  
this policy  was suitable for them  in 1999.
I accept Mr W had employee benefits  if he was off work through  accident  or sickness  or 
made redundant - similar to the kind the PPI provided. But I think  the PPI cover  wouldve 
paid out in addition to his sick pay and savings. So I think they could still have found the PPI 
useful if Mr W lost his job, had an accident or had fallen sick. And I dont think  his employee  
benefits made the policy less suitable for them.
For advised sales, Lloyds  also had to give Mr and Mrs W enough information  which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I dont know  how Lloyds pointed  out all the main  things  the 
policy didnt cover (the exclusions). But even if Lloyds had made  all the information clearer,  I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs W would have  still bought  the PPI. I say this because Mr W was 
resident in the UK, aged  42, was in full time employment and didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions.  So he was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by the 
main exclusions.
Ref: DRN12936142I also looked at the cost and benefits  of the policy. Even if they were  not made clear,  I 
havent seen anything which makes me think the policy  wasnt affordable  or that Mr and Mrs 
W needed to keep  the costs down at the time of the sale. Having  decided  they chose  to have 
PPI and as I think it provided  a useful benefit for them  I still think they wouldve bought it 
even if the costs were  made clearer. So I dont uphold this mis-sale complaint.
I noted that Mr and Mrs W raised  new questions about an insurance claim made on their PPI 
policy. I cannot answer these questions in this decision  as I am only looking at the mis-sale. 
However, if Mr and Mrs W wish to take the claim issue any further, they will have to make a 
new complaint to their insurance company and give it time to respond before they bring  the 
new complaint to this Service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1293614