K822xcomplaint
Ms F complains that Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limiteds  takeover of her Skandia 
personal pension  resulted  in lower investment growth, wasted time and problems paying a 
goodwill payment from Old Mutual into her bank account.
background 
Ms F moved abroad in 2004 and stopped contributing to her Skandia pension.  In July 2017  
Old Mutual sent her a cheque for £395  because it had failed to tell her in 2011 that her US 
Index fund had changed its tracking from the LGIM US Index Trust to Blackrock  North 
America Equity. (When  the mistake was identified  from 1 June  2017  the tracking was 
changed back to Blackrock US Index.) The cheque represented the higher growth  the US 
Index would have  achieved from 2011  to 2017 rather  than the North America  index.
As she was unable to cash  the cheque overseas, Ms F first contacted Old Mutual in October 
2017. She wanted a money  transfer into a UK bank account, which Skandia agreed in 
November 2017  it could arrange.  Ms F was going  to find it difficult  to provide sufficient 
evidence that the UK account  was hers,  so then tried posting the cheque by recorded 
delivery from overseas  to the UK. However the cheque had already been cancelled,  and she 
says this resulted  in her UK bank account being blocked. 
Ms Fs bank account then went overdrawn during  the eight weeks  it took Old Mutual  to reply 
to her complaint. As she was away from her overseas home,  she wouldnt be able to receive  
a replacement cheque. She would prefer the £395  to be paid into her pension  and 
backdated to when the loss occurred.
In its final response to the complaint,  Old Mutual  explained that it had no verified bank 
details for Ms F on its files, contributions had not been paid into the plan for a number of 
years and, when they were, they came  from her employer. Money Laundering guidelines & 
legislation meant  that steps have been put in place to protect its clients  money. This, in turn, 
meant it would  need proof of Ms Fs UK bank account.
Old Mutual also explained  that the cheque it sent Ms F wasnt direct compensation for lost 
investment growth.  It was because it hadnt told her her fund was now tracking  a different 
index, so her expectations may have been  different.  She might  have switched funds,  but the 
performance of where she might  have switched to wasnt known as the value of funds can 
go up as well as down.  The compensation simply represented her loss of expectation.
Old Mutual offered to pay Ms F an additional £50 compensation because it felt it shouldnt 
have cancelled her cheque until it had received proof of bank  account  and instructions to 
send payment by direct  credit.  It would also offer interest on the £395 using 8% pa simple 
from the date monies were paid, 27 July 2017  to 24 January 2018, which  amounted to 
£16.00 gross.
On noticing that Old Mutual had also changed  the investment  mandate of her European  fund 
to Continental  Europe, Ms F also sought a full review of her investments since  Old Mutual  
took over Skandia.
When Ms F referred  the complaint to this service,  Old Mutual didnt think that it should 
shoulder responsibility for the situation  that had arisen. Ms F hadnt advised it that she had 
changed her mind about banking the cheque. And although Ms F said she had made many  
international calls to her bank to ascertain why the cheque was refused, she did also make a 
Ref: DRN11475022call to Old Mutual on 30 November 2017 to be told that Old Mutual had cancelled it, based  
on her earlier instructions.
Old Mutual believed it had sent mailings about the change of mandate  for several funds in 
Ms Fs portfolio; just not the US Index fund which had prompted it to send  its cheque. It 
didnt consider the name change from Skandia to Old Mutual  was the cause  of these 
changes which can happen at any time.  It was unsure what  further losses  it had reasonably 
caused Ms F so it offered  her the following two options in addition  to the £50 payment for 
upset and £16 gross interest:
-£395.09 to be paid into her UK bank account  without  the need  for any further 
evidence.
-£395.09 to be paid into her pension and treated  as a personal  contribution.
Our investigator concluded that Ms F accepting either of these options together  with the 
remaining part of the offer would represent  fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. He felt the change from Skandia to Old Mutual  was simply a name change 
and Ms F would have  been sent communication  about this. So if you had any queries about 
the performance of her other funds  she could have raised these with Old Mutual at any time.
Ms F didnt agree. She referred to a pension she had with another provider which never  had 
these problems, similarly there  was no issue when her pension was with Skandia.  It was 
clear it wasnt  just a name change  in respect of the US Index fund, hence the compensation. 
She wanted full details  of how Old Mutual had calculated the compensation.
The investigator passed on the details  Old Mutual  gave us of its calculations. Ms F was 
concerned that she had originally been offered £300, she didnt understand why the amount 
had changed and where was the lost growth  from 2017-2030. She expected to be paid the 
costs for legal advice  shed need  to consider paying the compensation back into her 
pension.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  that Old Mutual need offer anything more.  The basic  
amount of its offer had always  been  £395. He took a similar view to Old Mutual that not all 
the delays in payment of compensation were its fault  there were complications due to Ms F 
being overseas.  Ms F could, if she wished,  reinvest the compensation into her pension  to 
ensure that it achieved  further growth  until 2030.  But that was a matter  for her to weigh up as 
Old Mutual couldnt  force  her to do this. 
Ms F remained  dissatisfied. She highlighted a difficulty in paying the money into her pension  
at all, because  she was no longer UK resident. The investigator clarified  that even if Ms F 
didnt pay the money  into her pension, it would be as if she had been  informed  of the change 
in tracking of the US Index fund but had chosen to remain in that fund. The compensation, 
which she could still receive  in cash, was because she lost the opportunity to switch  into 
another fund,  which may (or may not) have  done better than the US Index fund after it 
changed its tracking.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall view as the 
investigator, for very similar reasons. 
Ref: DRN11475023Firstly, I should say that Old Mutual bought Skandia in 2006,  but underwent a rebranding of 
the Skandia-named  investments in 2014.  Due to consolidation of funds with similar 
investment mandates, a number of changes to the names or tracking  of various  funds have 
been made over the years. However  from what Ive seen this is little different to many  
insurers in the UK market  which  are entitled  to review and change what  funds they offer on a 
regular basis.
Ive also seen evidence  from Old Mutual  of communications it sent Ms F, to her overseas 
address, when it closed  certain funds or changed  their underlying  investments. I know  Ms F 
has said that the post where she lives is unreliable, so its possible she might not have 
received all the letters. But I cant hold Old Mutual  responsible for that if it can demonstrate  
its sent the letters.
What Old Mutual has admitted is that it forgot  to tell investors in the US Index fund in 2011  
that it had changed its tracking from the LGIM US Index Trust to Blackrock North America  
Equity. So it can be seen  that this error  wasnt directly related to the acquisition  of Skandia 
by Old Mutual in 2006 or its rebranding in 2014.  But its not possible to say that any 
performance is missing from Ms Fs pension, because we dont know  how she might have 
reacted if she had been told the underlying index of the US Index fund had changed.
Ms F might have decided  to invest in a fund which  performed  better than Old Mutuals US 
Index fund, or worse.  Or she might have decided  to remain where she was  in fact that 
perhaps seems the most likely option as Im not aware Ms F has switched funds  in reaction 
to any of Old Mutuals other letters. However  what Old Mutual has effectively done  is offer all 
investors compensation in the form of a goodwill payment, whether or not they would have 
switched funds if theyd  been told of the change in index in 2011. 
This compensation was based on the fact that, as it turned out in 2017, the old index the US 
Index fund was tracking  would  actually have done better  than the new index Old Mutual had 
replaced it with. That seems to be to be a fair and reasonable  way to calculate  
compensation, particularly as if Ms F hadnt actually chosen to switch funds when she heard 
about the change of index  she wouldnt have benefited by £395  at all.
I understand Ms Fs concerns about reinvesting this sum into her pension, because its likely  
to cause tax difficulties as shes not eligible to make UK pension contributions if she moved  
abroad in 2004.  Old Mutual offered this solution  after corresponding with our investigators 
and with hindsight,  this hasnt helped to resolve  matters. Ms F can, however, reinvest the 
£395 if she wants to, in any form of investment she might be able to make overseas. So I 
dont agree that shes lost out on future growth on this sum.
The rest of Ms Fs issues concern the difficulty she had paying in a UK cheque  now that 
shes resident overseas.  Im satisfied that Old Mutual acted reasonably in initially posting her 
a cheque, as it was initially  Ms Fs responsibility to notify it of any difficulty  she would have 
with this payment  method. Ms F did so, but only after a few months delay. So I dont 
consider Old Mutual should be held responsible for all of the delay Ms F experienced. 
When Ms F told Old Mutual  she would like the same sum transferred to a UK bank  account,  
Old Mutual was entitled to ask for appropriate  identification from Ms F for anti-money 
laundering purposes, because it never previously had any bank account information from Ms 
F. As its pointed out, the contributions to Ms Fs pension previously came from her 
employer. These are similar  to the checks Old Mutual will need to carry out when  Ms F 
decides to start drawing  money back out of her pension in 2030. The fact that Old Mutual 
has now agreed to waive  these checks in order to resolve the complaint more  quickly is 
Ref: DRN11475024solely a matter for it to decide at its discretion  it doesnt mean it was wrong for Old Mutual 
to expect appropriate evidence to be provided  when it was originally offered.
Old Mutual wasnt to know that Ms F would  then change her mind  and try to cash  its original 
cheque. It has apologised that it cancelled  the cheque in response to Ms Fs request to have 
a bank transfer. I dont  think  this was actually an unreasonable course of action  a cheque 
can always be reissued,  but what Old Mutual was doing was making sure that a payable  
cheque wasnt still in circulation whilst  it was about to make  the same  payment a different 
way. Nevertheless I note Old Mutual  has offered £50 compensation for the confusion at this 
time which is still open to her to accept.
Old Mutual has also offered Ms F some  interest on the £395 in view of the delay in being 
able to arrange payment. Ive said above that I dont accept all of the delay was Ms Fs fault.
This has been calculated at 8% pa simple from 27 July 2017 to 24 January 2018. Im aware 
that the matter  hasnt  been resolved but Im satisfied that this payment adequately reflects 
that the delays  havent  all been Old Mutuals fault. Ms F should  note that interest is taxable 
and Old Mutual will need to issue a certificate of any tax it considers should  be deducted 
from the interest payment under UK taxation. Ms F may be able to discuss any adjustments  
to the tax paid with her local tax authorities.
I can see that whilst Old Mutual was investigating Ms Fs complaint, she told Old Mutual that 
Maybe I will have  an overdraft. So Im satisfied Ms F was aware  that her finances  were 
going to be affected by the absence of a sum she was waiting to receive from Old Mutual 
and she was able to make appropriate arrangements to avoid going overdrawn if this was 
going to be an issue for her. Its not reasonable for me to expect Old Mutual  to pay Ms F 
additional compensation for this.
my final decision
Im aware that Old Mutual has already offered Ms F cash payments of £395.09,  £16 gross  
interest (potentially subject to UK tax) and £50 for any upset its caused. These amounts 
remain open for Ms Fs acceptance.  If Ms F chooses to accept  this decision I require Old 
Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited  to pay these amounts into a UK bank  account  of Ms 
Fs choice (or by cheque if she now prefers this instead).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1147502