K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
taken out in 2011. Ms N says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Both Ms N and Santander agree that the policy was sold to Ms N over the phone. Ive got a 
copy of a call script  which Santander says was used by its staff at the time. The sales script 
directs its staff to describe the PPI as optional and to ask a clear question  whether the 
customer wanted the PPI. Ive considered  what Ms N says about thinking she had to take it 
out to get the loan. But I have to consider  memories  can and do fade and Ive not seen 
anything that suggests to me thats  what she was told at the time. I think  its more  likely than 
not that the sales script represents how the PPI wouldve been presented to Ms N. 
Santander has also sent us a copy of the credit  agreement  that was sent to Ms N and which  
she signed and returned. I can see theres  a separate section for PPI - which  is after the 
signature for the actual credit. It clearly sets out the cost of the policy and I can see there  
was a tick box which Ms N has ticked to say she wished to purchase the insurance, shes 
signed below to confirm this.  
So overall, I think Santander made Ms N aware that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it  although  I can understand why she cant remember  this now.
I dont think Santander  recommended the PPI to Ms N so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms N got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Ms N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. And although Ive thought about what Ms N 
says about her job being safe, nobody can accurately  predict what the future will bring and 
the nature  of insurance is to protect  against  the unexpected. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms N because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms N about that. Because Santander didnt tell Ms N, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN16194792To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Ms N any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Ms N any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Ms N the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay Ms 
N 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms N can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms N any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  9 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1619479