K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that increase Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  charged  him for his 
premium when he changed the car to be insured midway through  his motor policy  was 
excessive and unreasonable.
background
Mr B changed the car to be insured from one worth  around £2,700 to one worth around 
£27,000 midway  through the policy year. Admiral  said this meant  Mr Bs insurance group for 
this risk changed from group 9 to group 28. So it charged Mr B a further  £278.74 in addition  
to the original annual premium  of £523.04.
Mr B said he was able to find a cheaper  quote online also with Admiral. And on that basis,  
he brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator thought  Admiral had charged the increase fairly, so he didnt think  Mr Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr B disagreed so his complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
As the adjudicator explained,  insurers are entitled  to decide what risks they want to cover 
and for what premium. Obviously if a particular insurers premium level is unattractive  or not 
competitive, its unlikely to succeed  as the customer always has the choice to choose  
another insurer instead. However, neither this service nor I have the mandate  or powers to 
tell an insurer how it should consider  the risk and indeed what premium to charge for it. 
Thats a matter for the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
My role is to look to ensure the insurer, Admiral in this instance, adhered to its own internal 
guidelines in relation  to change of car Mr B needed to put on his policy. And further, my role 
is to make sure Mr B wasnt  treated differently to any customer  in the same circumstances. 
I dont consider it unusual or unreasonable for any insurer to include Admiral to charge an 
increase in premium  when a car is changed to a more valuable  one midway  through a policy  
year, as what happened here in Mr Bs case.
I understand and appreciate Mr B was able to find a quote also from Admiral which  was 
cheaper. But as Admiral  explained to Mr B in its final response,  when Mr B accepted  his 
quote for the year, his rate was set and frozen for that year.  So consequently such  mid-term 
changes as Mr B made with the change of car to a much more  valuable car will be assessed 
against the rates he accepted when his policy year started. The quote  he found online was 
obviously for a brand  new policy with its policy year starting then. So its not a like for like 
issue. 
Im satisfied Admiral used the correct rates to calculate Mr Bs increased premium  when he 
asked it insure the new car. Im also satisfied  Admiral  adhered  to its own guidelines and 
Ref: DRN16241922didnt treat Mr B unfairly or differently. As the adjudicator explained this information is 
commercially sensitive  and Im not permitted to share this with Mr B for these reasons and 
the fact we publish our decisions.
Premium rates and risk rates change all the time, as they are dependent on the fluctuations  
of the customer base, the claims rates  and other  rapidly changing forces.  That is simply how 
the market works for all sorts  of issues, not just motor insurance. Therefore, I dont find it 
unusual first, that Mr B was able to find a cheaper  quote on line albeit it wasnt  for the same 
time when  he first took his policy out or secondly, that the quote for renewal was also 
cheaper. Neither of these issues demonstrate Admiral did anything  wrong when  it calculated  
the increased premium  when Mr B changed the car mid-term through his policy  year.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1624192