K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ), gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.  The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Ns 
behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Mr N.
background
Mr N was given two payday loans, a refinance loan and a flex credit account by QQ between  
March 2013 and November 2013.  Loans 1 and 1a were repayable by two monthly 
instalments. Loan  2 was repayable by three  monthly  instalments.  All the loans have been  
repaid, although  two required  repayment  plans. A summary of the loans taken out by Mr N is 
shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount  Highest monthly repayment  amount on 
loans 
1.Payday loan 9/3/13 7/9/13 £100 £122.12
1a. Refinance  loan 11/4/13 7/9/13 £70 £97.13
2.Payday loan 7/9/13 12/11/13 £150 £129.50
3.Flex credit 12/11/13 14/9/16 £50 to £200 
borrowed
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld  in part and that the 
complaint about  Loan 3 be upheld. 
QQ disagreed and responded to say, in summary,  that its checks were adequate and 
proportionate. It said that Mr N made the vast majority of his repayments on Loan  3 on time 
and he didnt incur  any late fees on Loan 3. QQ asked the adjudicator to provide information 
about Mr Ns income  and expenses to demonstrate that Mr N was unable to sustainably  
repay Loan 3. 
The adjudicator said he couldnt say that income  and expense  information was required. But 
the number and frequency of Mr Ns loans showed that the loans  werent being used as a 
short term financial solution.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N 
and to QQ on 14 August  2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  QQ lent to Mr N the regulator  was the Office of Fair Trading  and relevant 
guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending. 
I said that QQ needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr N 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
Ref: DRN17819812number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that QQ was required to establish whether Mr N could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ns complaint.
QQ had made a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr N. It asked him for details of his 
income. QQ had also checked  Mr Ns employment  and housing  status.  From the information 
QQ gathered, Mr N was employed and paid rent. 
QQ had also checked Mr Ns credit  file before agreeing to the loans. QQ hadnt provided us 
with the results of its credit checks. But Mr N had provided us with his credit  report and Id  
referred to this in my decision.
Loans 1 and 1a
Ref: DRN17819813QQ said it had carried out credit checks before approving Loans 1 and 1a although it hadnt 
provided the results  of its checks. But I could see from the credit report  Mr N provided that 
hed entered into a debt relief order around five months before Loan  1 was provided.  Id 
asked the adjudicator to ask QQ if it had the results of Mr Ns credit checks. And if it didnt 
have these, I wanted to know whether a debt relief order would have shown on its credit  
checks. QQ responded to say that it didnt have the credit checks. And it said that Mr N 
would have had to tell it about  a debt relief order,  although it would  have seen county court 
judgments on its checks. So I couldnt  be sure that QQs search of Mr Ns credit files at this 
time would likely have  shown the debt relief order.
 
Loan 1 was for £100 and repayable over two monthly instalments with a highest instalment  
of £122.12. Around a month after Loan  1, Mr N took a refinance  loan for £70, although  it 
appeared from QQs emails that Mr N had total outstanding  capital of £150. It appeared that 
the highest repayment for Loan  1a was £97.13, but I thought that the final repayment for the 
refinanced loan must have been higher than this because  of the outstanding capital amount. 
Nevertheless, I still thought the repayments for Loans 1 and 1a were relatively modest 
compared to Mr Ns declared income. 
Given Mr Ns repayment amounts, what was apparent to the lender about his circumstances 
at the time, and his history with the lender, I didnt think  it wouldve  been  proportionate for 
QQ to have asked him for the amount  of information that would be needed to show  Loans 1 
and 1a were unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr N provided before Loans 1 and 1a or the 
information QQ shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think QQ was wrong to give Loans 1 and 1a to 
Mr N. 
The loans were  due to be repaid on 28 May 2013. But I could see that Mr N had extended 
repayment of Loans  1 and 1a by a month. And before the extension had ended, Mr N had 
entered into a pre-default  repayment plan to repay his outstanding balance  by four monthly 
repayment amounts  of around £29. Although the final instalment was repaid ten days early,  
Mr N asked to borrow  Loan  2 on the day the final repayment was made.  And the loan 
amount had increased to £150. I thought all this should have given QQ significant concerns 
about Mr Ns financial situation. I thought  the loan extension and pre-default repayment plan 
should have suggested to QQ that Mr N was struggling to manage his finances. So I didnt 
think QQ should have  given Loan 2 to Mr N.
Id looked at the overall pattern of lending to see if there was a point at which  QQ should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
QQ should have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ns case, I thought  that this point was reached by 
Loan 3. I said this because by the time QQ lent Loan 3, hed been borrowing  continuously  for 
around eight months without any breaks in the borrowing. Loan 2 was borrowed on the same  
day that Loans 1 and 1a were repaid, and Loan 3 was borrowed on the same day that 
Loan 2 was repaid. 
Ref: DRN17819814And so Mr N wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed  QQ, and was in effect 
paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period. By the time 
hed repaid Loan 3, hed had continuous borrowing from QQ for around  42 months.
I thought the need for Mr N to borrow again  so quickly  after repaying each loan and for that 
period of time suggested that he wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose of short  
term cash flow but was likely using the loans  to substitute his income.  
I thought that Mr N had lost out because QQ provided Loan 3. This type of loan had the 
effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ns indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive  credit 
over an extended period  of time. And the length of time Mr N had been taking QQs loans 
was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ns ability to access mainstream credit  
and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
The fact that the loans  were repaid didnt mean  that they were repaid sustainably,  or without 
causing Mr N undue  difficulty. 
Id considered the points QQ made  in response to the adjudicator. QQ said that Mr N had 
paid the vast majority  of his repayments on Loan 3 on time. But I thought  QQ would know (or 
ought to have known) from previous  decisions that this service  considered  there would be 
times when  the pattern of lending alone was enough to indicate  that a consumer was likely 
to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending continue. So it 
followed that successful repayment of a loan didnt automatically mean it was repaid 
sustainably.
Subject to any further representations by Mr N or QQ my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I said that QQ should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what QQ needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr N paid on Loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse entries about Loan  2 from Mr Ns credit  file;
All entries about Loan 3 should be removed from Mr Ns credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr N 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Neither Mr N nor QQ has provided any further  information in response  to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN17819815Given that Mr N and QQ have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require QQ to pay Mr N some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr N paid on Loans 2 and 3;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan  2 from Mr Ns credit file; and
4.All entries about Loan 3 should be removed from Mr Ns credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr N 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1781981