K820x#14complaint
U, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  refund an online 
payment that it didnt  make or authorise.
background
In February 2018  U tried to make a payment  from its account using online banking. It had 
difficulty in logging into its account using its debit card,  PIN sentry  device and code. On the 
third attempt, about 45 minutes  later,  it successfully logged  in and made a payment. Later in 
the day, it checked the account  to see if it had received some money that it was due. It then 
noticed that a payment for just over £4,800 had been made from its account. A week or so 
later U found out its computer had been  infected  with malware.
Barclays investigated but it declined to refund the money. It said that U had used its card, 
card reader and online  banking (OLB)  security  details to log in. It couldnt see where any of 
these details may have  been compromised. It hadnt  found  any evidence  of malware. It 
found that both the disputed and genuine  payments  had been made from the same  IP 
address.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that any malware would act before U had logged  into the 
account. She thought it most likely  that U had authorised the payment from a different 
computer.
U disagreed. It said, in summary,  that:
it only owned and had access to one computer
it had used an IT specialist who confirmed the computer had been infected with malware
the type of malware  was a Trojan, which allows the attacker, among other things, to 
capture the window,  write data remotely and create a process without showing a window.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to U 
and Barclays on 16 April 2020. I summarise  my findings:
U had difficulties logging into its OLB.  It took it almost an hour to get into its account.
Later that day when  it checked its account  it saw a payment out of the account that it 
didnt recognise.
Barclays can hold U liable for the disputed  payment if the evidence suggests  its more 
likely than not that it made or authorised it.
I was satisfied that the payment  was authenticated. Authentication is the use of a 
procedure by which a bank is able to verify the use of a specific  payment instrument,  
including its personalised security features.
Whoever made the payment  used the correct  OLB security details. But that on its own 
isnt enough for Barclays to hold U liable. 
Ref: DRN11839612Barclays said that it wasnt  able to find a point of compromise to Us OLB details or its 
card. As the same IP address was used for both payments,  it considered either U made  
or authorised the disputed payment. Its systems hadnt detected any malware  and there 
wasnt any evidence to suggest a third party had been able to access the account.
Barclays accepted  that the browser used for the disputed payment was different to Us 
normal browser, as was the language settings. The cookie was also different for the 
disputed payment to the one that was usually used.  It suggested that U may have used a 
separate computer  on the same network  to make  the payment.
Us director had consistently  said that it only has one computer. It provided a report  from 
an IT specialist  to show that its computer  had been infected with malware  just two days 
before the disputed  payment was made.  This happened when Us director  opened an 
invoice from what he thought was one of his suppliers.
Barclays still thought  there was no unauthorised  third party access.  It said the IP address 
and cookies used  to complete both the disputed and genuine payments were the same.
Us IT specialist  said that the malware on Us computer  was a Trojan that, amongst other  
things, writes data over a remote  process and creates  a process without  showing a 
window. I thought it was likely that the malware was activated  when U tried to log in, 
using its usual OLB security, including its card and PIN sentry  device and this was when 
the security information could have been  compromised. 
I considered it was possible that the malware allowed an unknown third party to remotely 
hijack Us OLB session and then gather  the required information to make  this 
transaction. Given the circumstances  behind the payment here, I also consider it was 
possible for the malware to have remotely  compromised Us computer so it appeared 
that access to OLB was from Us computer using Us own IP address. 
Having looked  at Us online banking history from the beginning of 2018  until the end of 
the year and beyond  I found that the same IP address was used for both the genuine  
and disputed transaction. But the cookie used to complete the disputed transfer was 
different to the cookie used for the genuine  payment and all the other online activity  
throughout the year. The browser (and language) used was different for the disputed  
transaction but reverted to the usual one for the genuine payment and subsequently.
I accepted that a different computer  could have been used to make the payment. But 
taken with Us testimony about the difficulties it had in logging  in to OLB and the 
evidence that there  was malware  on its computer I think it was more likely  than not that 
U activated the malware when it tried to log on and this explains why a different browser, 
cookie and language settings were  used just for the disputed  payment. And I think  that 
this could have  occurred without Us director being aware of what  was happening.
Subject to any further representations from U or Barclays, my provisional  decision was that 
there wasnt enough evidence to show that U authorised the transaction  so I didnt consider 
that Barclays could  hold it liable. I considered Barclays should refund the disputed  
transaction and the related charge and pay simple interest at 8% on that amount refunded.
Both U and Barclays accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN11839613my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither U nor Barclays has provided any fresh information or evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision I find no basis to depart  from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
refund  the disputed  transaction  and the related charge
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  from the date of the transaction to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1183961