K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold him the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr S says that the PPI had been added to his credit  card account without his knowledge. 
I dont doubt the honesty  of this recollection. But the event in question did take place over 15 
years ago. And even  the best of memories can struggle over that sort of time frame.  So this 
is something I have to consider when weighing up whats likely to have happened.
BoS has provided us with a copy of the credit card application and agreement that Mr S 
signed in branch at the time of sale. On this document there was a section called Product 
Details, below which read the following: If you want these services  please mark the relevant 
boxes. One of the services was PPI. And in the box next to PPI there  is an X. 
Mr S says that the PPI box could have been  filled in after he signed the document.  However, 
while that may be possible, I dont find it probable given the evidence in front of me. I say 
this because the X looks like it was computer generated  just like Mr Ss personal information. 
And as both parties seem to agree that the sale took place in branch, the document  was 
probably printed  with pre-populated information  following  a conversation  between  them.  
Adding the X at a later date would have probably involved running the document through a 
printer again. However, Mr S hasnt  provided  us with any persuasive evidence to suggest 
thats what BoS did. And with that being  the case, as Ive already said above,  I think the X is 
the likely  result of a conversation between the two parties. Whats more,  as Mr S signed the 
document, Im not persuaded that it was added to his account without his knowledge  or 
that theres the evidence to say he only signed  the document with PPI on it because he had 
to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr S  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, I think that the policy  was 
suitable for him. He doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And based on what hes told us about  his sick pay and 
ability to keep up with his repayments  using  other  means, he seems to have had a need for 
the cover.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr S clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
Ref: DRN18223332 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr S paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give him back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what  Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Unless BoS has already  paid Mr S, it will make  the necessary  arrangements  now that Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1822333