K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ls credit card account when she applied for the card online.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because:
 I think NatWest  made Mrs L aware  that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to 
take it. I say that because Mrs L was sent an application form confirming the choices 
she made during  her online  application.  She signed separately to confirm she wanted 
the PPI. 
 NatWest  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. 
 Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs L chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs L would have  made a different decision if better  information had been provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ls comments,  including what  shes  said recently about her 
work benefits and savings. But that doesnt change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN16610982my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  30 October 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1661098