K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Services Limited made multiple  errors  when renewing his 
insurance policy. Hes not happy with the amount hes been offered to put matters right, or 
the response to his complaint.
background
Mr Ms level two policy  was due for renewal  on 23 June 2017. On 2 June, after receiving  a 
renewal price of £21 per month, he called British Gas and was quoted a cheaper price of 
£19 per month.
On 12 June Mr M spoke to British Gas due to an issue he had at his home  with his drains. 
He says during  the call he was offered level three  cover for an extra  £7 per month  so a 
total of £26 per month, which is £312 for the year.  Mr M says the advisor promised  to call 
him back later that week to issue a new agreement, but the call wasnt  received.
Mr M says he called British Gas back on 22 June and was told his level two policy had been 
cancelled from 11 June,  in error.  He says he was offered £30 compensation, and also told 
this was the maximum payable under the regulators rules  but he says the regulator has 
since told him there are no such rules.  A £30 cheque was sent to Mr M.
Mr M says the advisor called him back the following day and offered him level three cover for 
£324. Mr M later received a letter confirming the policy was in place for £324, which included 
a £12 discount for being a British  Gas energy customer  and a £6 discount  for paying by 
direct debit.
British Gas internal  call notes show that Mr M called on 5 July to query a £19 payment that 
had been taken from his bank account  on 5 June for his old policy,  and to query the premium 
he was now paying  for his new policy. He didnt believe a payment for his old policy was due 
in June because  he understood British Gas had cancelled the policy  mid-month, before the 
renewal date  and he was unhappy  he was paying £324 for his new policy after first being 
quoted £312. The advisor refunded the £19 payment,  and also the £12 difference between 
the initial quote and his premium  so a £31 cheque was sent to Mr M.
British Gas says Mr M called again  on 10 July to confirm his payments and cover  were now 
in place, and he was reassured  cover  was in place for £27 per month.  But British Gas says 
its advisor failed to identify that the direct  debit instruction had been  cancelled on 23 June 
due to a system error  and because of this, no payments were taken for the first two 
months and the policy lapsed.
Mr M called British Gas again  on 25 and 26 July after he noticed the payments hadnt  been 
taken from his account  and he says one call lasted 83 minutes. British Gas reinstated the 
policy and a new direct  debit was set-up for the remaining eleven months. British Gas also 
applied a £38 credit to Mr Ms policy. £12 reduced  the annual  premium from £324 to £312, 
and £26 covered  the first months payment  which meant Mr M only had to pay £26 per 
month for the remaining  eleven months.  
Ref: DRN14456172Mr M complained about how his renewal had been handled. British Gas agreed the renewal 
had been handled poorly. It also acknowledged  an agreed call back didnt happen; and said 
two advisors misinterpreted  the original advisors  actions  and therefore  gave misinformation. 
It also accepted  there  were errors  with Mr Ms direct debit, and acknowledged  complaint 
correspondence had been sent to his previous address on two occasions.
However, British Gas said the level two policy wasnt  cancelled from 11 June,  but rather the 
cancellation was arranged to be effective from the renewal date  when the new level three 
policy would start. It says the advisors  simply misinterpreted the policy had been cancelled. 
In addition to the above  phone calls, British Gas says Mr M called on 29 June to query  why 
he had received policy documents for both a level two and a level three  policy. British Gas 
says this happened because his old policy wasnt cancelled on 23 June as it should have 
been, but it was cancelled  before a further payment was taken. 
British Gas offered  Mr M £20 for the misinformation its advisors had given; £20 for sending  
correspondence to an old address; £20 for administrative errors associated to the renewal; 
£30 for the delay  in responding to his complaint; and £30 for the time and money  he spent 
corresponding about this matter. So it offered £120 in total  but it only enclosed a £60 
cheque. 
In its complaint response letter,  British Gas also explained it wasnt  prepared to offer Mr M a 
further refund on his agreement. It said under its terms and conditions its existing customers 
arent entitled to claim an introductory price, which it says the £19 per month level two price 
was. It also said due to the £38 credit, less than the introductory price had already been  
paid.
Mr M remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Hes made the following 
points:
-His annual premium  was £324.  But he says it should have been £312,  less £12 discount 
for being an energy customer and £6 discount for paying by direct debit  so £294. So 
Mr M says hes owed  £30. Although, its my understanding that he eventually  paid his 
premium in full and so he is no longer claiming the £6 direct  debit discount.
-He says he received  two letters  dated  23 June containing wrong  information   the letters  
explained his cover was in force and his bank account details had been updated, which 
he says was untrue.
-He was left without cover for a 45 day period, between when his old policy was cancelled  
on 11 June and when  his new policy was reinstated on 26 July  and this issue was only 
resolved because he called British Gas.
-The £19 level two renewal quote  was not offered as an introductory price and there is no 
mention of pricing in his policy terms and conditions.
-Much  of the commentary in British Gas complaint response  letter  is untrue in terms of 
what happened.
-The false  statement  regarding maximum compensation under  the regulators rules  has 
not been addressed or acknowledged by British Gas.
Ref: DRN14456173-British Gas left him without insurance;  didnt tell him his insurance had been  cancelled; 
and sent his personal information to an incorrect address  the compensation doesnt 
reflect these serious errors. Furthermore, British Gas offered a further £120, but only 
sent a £60 cheque.
-The £19 refund and £38 credit  werent  compensation  payments  but rather money owed 
for the periods his policies  werent in force.
-He has spent a lot of time corresponding with British Gas regarding  the issues,  including  
phone calls  and some of those conversations werent recorded by the advisors and a 
promised return call wasnt received.
-In August 2017 he went  into hospital  for three  days for an operation,  and his recovery 
has been significantly impacted by this ongoing  complaint.
-Hes received three cheques for £30, £31, and £60 (so £121)  but none  of these have 
been cashed yet.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but he didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
thought the £121  cheques,  and the £38 credit  applied  to the policy, was fair compensation 
(although he incorrectly  quoted the credit to be £50, rather  than £38). Because Mr M 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 August 2019.  I explained that I intended to uphold the 
complaint and decide British Gas should  compensate Mr M a further  £79  but I said I would 
consider any further evidence  or comments I receive. In my provisional  decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mr M has made detailed submissions, which I have read and considered. However,  its not 
my intention to comment on every point hes raised. My role is to determine the crux of the 
complaint, and to decide whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances. In doing  
so, Im not bound by anything British Gas has previously offered.
Mr M has received copies of his call recordings from British Gas,  and he says these show he 
was offered level three cover for £312.  British Gas call notes from 12 June, that we have 
been given, dont reference  a £312 offer. But British Gas hasnt disputed he was offered 
cover for this amount, so I accept  what Mr M says about the call recordings in his 
possession. 
Mr M says a £12 energy  customer  discount, and a £6 direct debit discount, should have also 
been deducted from the £312 premium. But as I understand it, British  Gas says its quotes  
were inclusive of these discounts. Having reviewed the various renewal letters  that were 
sent to Mr M, and British  Gas call notes  and internal notes  in my opinion its unclear 
whether these further deductions were to apply to the £312 quote.
Ref: DRN14456174Mr M has highlighted a note on British Gas system that confirms  a £19 per month renewal 
price was quoted  on 2 June for a level two policy, and he says this amount was before the 
£12 and £6 discounts had been  applied. He says his £312  level three quote was simply an 
addition of £7 per month on the £19 per month level two price   so he says the two 
discounts still needed to be deducted  from the £312.
However, the internal note on the 2 June explains a direct debit payment price was quoted. 
So in my view, this suggests  the £6 direct debit  discount had already been  deducted.  This is 
also supported by a level two policy  renewal  letter that was sent to Mr M on 22 June, which 
shows a £19 per month premium after the £6 direct debit discount had been  applied. That 
said, neither the 2 June call note, or 22 June  letter, mention the £12 energy  customer  
discount (and this deduction is mentioned in all the other renewal letters). 
Nonetheless, having thought about matters carefully, British Gas is in my view best placed to 
determine how its quotes were calculated  so overall, I accept what  it says about the two 
discounts already  being  included in the quotes  it gave. So Im persuaded Mr Ms premium 
should have been £312, not £294.  However,  Im also persuaded British Gas could have 
been clearer about what was included in its quotes at the time of communicating  them to     
Mr M  and Ive taken that in to account  when considering compensation.
I understand Mr M has received three cheques for £30, £31, and £60  plus a £38 credit was 
applied to his policy. So hes received £159 in total. 
In my view, its not clear what figure  British  Gas was offering Mr M when it responded to his 
complaint  whether it was offering a further £120  to the £61 already paid, or £120  in total. 
But given that it only sent a £60 cheque Ive assumed the latter. In any event, Ive 
considered whats  fair and reasonable compensation overall. 
In respect of the £159, Ive made the following  observations:
-Mr Ms policy was priced at £324,  not the initially quoted  £312.  So I consider it fair for 
£12 to have been  refunded.
-British Gas says Mr Ms previous level two policy wasnt cancelled early. Mr M disputes 
this based on what he was previously told. But on balance,  I accept  what  British Gas 
now says given  its looked into the matter.  As such,  Im not persuaded that the £19 
refund for Junes  payment  was due. 
-British Gas offered  to pay the first months premium for Mr Ms new policy  which in my 
opinion is fair given the payment  wasnt taken,  and the policy lapsed, due to British  Gas 
system error. But Im persuaded  the credit should have only been  £26, not £38. This is 
because £12 was to reduce the annual premium  from £324 to £312  but this £12 had 
already been refunded as part of the £31 cheque.
-So of the £159, Im persuaded  £12 and £26 should be considered as refunds due, which 
was the amount British Gas credited to the policy, i.e. £38. The remaining £121  should 
be considered  as compensation. 
Ref: DRN14456175Mr M says he was left without cover for 45 days.  As explained above, Im not persuaded his 
policy was cancelled on 11 June   and although  his policy lapsed in July, it was reinstated  
from the renewal date. In any event,  no claim was made during the period in question, so 
there hasnt  been  any detriment   and if a claim had been made, this service would have 
expected British Gas to have treated Mr M as if his policy  hadnt  lapsed; given its system 
error caused the situation. 
However, Im persuaded British Gas made  multiple  errors during the renewal process,  which 
includes giving Mr M incorrect and unclear information  and British  Gas has largely  
accepted this. So Ive thought carefully  about  what compensation should be paid.
Having considered all the submissions of both parties, Im satisfied that Mr M was caused  
considerable trouble and upset by the issues that arose  particularly in terms of his time, 
effort, and frustration. In my opinion, £121 doesnt  adequately compensate  Mr M for the 
impact the issues had on him. 
I intend to decide that in addition to the £38 credit  that was applied to Mr Ms policy, a total of 
£200 compensation should be awarded  to him. £121 has already been sent to Mr M via 
three cheques, which leaves  a further £79 to be paid.  
If the three cheques havent been  cashed  yet, and Mr M now has difficulty  doing so due to 
the time thats  passed since they were issued, he should make  arrangements  with           
British Gas to return them, so it can reissue  the £121.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr M reiterated many of the points and arguments 
he had previously made  so I wont repeat  them here. He also interpreted  my provisional 
decision to be an award of £279, in addition to the £121 British Gas had already paid. He 
explained that he didnt accept £279, but he would  accept a further £350. British  Gas 
explained it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  I reached in my provisional decision for the 
same reasons. Mr M has made many of the same arguments and its clear he disagrees with 
some of the timeline  Ive documented in the background  section  of my decision, particularly 
in terms of the funds  British Gas applied to his account  and the payments it made. But Im 
afraid theres  not much more I can add to what I said in my provisional decision. I will 
however clarify my opinion of the £38 credit and the award I said I intended  to make.
Mr M says he hasnt  received the £38 credit. He points towards  a renewal letter  which shows 
11 monthly payments  were due totalling £286, which he paid. However, the letter also shows 
the policy covered  a 12 month period and the annual premium was £324. I understand that 
British Gas reinstated the policy, to cover  the full 12 months,  as if it hadnt lapsed  which  is 
why the full £324 annual  premium was payable. But because British  Gas had applied a £12 
credit to reduce  the annual premium from £324  to £312, and a £26 credit  to cover the first 
months premium which had been  missed due to the policy lapsing, only £286  was left 
outstanding. So Im persuaded Mr M received the benefit of the credit  the policy  was 
reinstated so it covered the full 12 months, but the premium was reduced  and only 11 
months was paid for by Mr M.
Ref: DRN14456176In response to Mr Ms comments, I would also like to clarify I was aware  his original level two 
policy didnt lapse, but rather it was cancelled. In the background section of my provisional  
decision I noted his original policy was arranged to be cancelled on its renewal date,  when 
his new level three policy  was due to start. However, his level three policy  did then lapse, 
due to a system error with his direct debit instruction. 
My provisional decision wasnt £279 on top of the £121  already  paid.  I said Mr M had so far 
received £159.  I said £121 had been  received via three cheques, and £38 credited to his 
account. I said in addition to the £38 credit, a total of £200 compensation should be paid.    
Because Mr M has already received £121, I said this would only leave £79 to be paid.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I accept multiple issues arose  during  the renewal 
process and these impacted Mr M. But having considered  all the points hes made  and the 
wider circumstances,  I still consider  a further  £79 to be a fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
I appreciate Mr M will remain  disappointed.  But for the reasons Ive set out above, and in my 
provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is British  Gas Services Limited  should compensate  Mr M a further £79.        
I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1445617