K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs S say Skipton Building  Society, trading as The Chesham Building Society 
at the time (Skipton), mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I cant say exactly how the PPI was presented by Skipton  - theres very little documentation  
available from the PPI sale itself. But given how long ago the sale was, that isnt surprising.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they felt they had to take the PPI and it was presented  as another  
piece of paper to sign. Theyve told us they didnt ask questions as there  was no choice if 
they wanted to proceed with the mortgage. Theyve  also told us it was presented as 
conditional that they had to take PPI and also take Skiptons PPI.
Ive thought about all this carefully. But the documentation I do have  from the time of the sale 
makes it look like the PPI was presented as something separate from the mortgage. For 
example, the PPI application isnt part of the mortgage application. Also theres a letter about 
the PPI that was sent after the sale. This thanks Mr and Mrs S for choosing  the cover. So it 
suggests the PPI was something Mr and Mrs S had been given a choice about.
Bearing all this in mind, what Mr and Mrs S have  said - more than a decade  after the sale - 
isnt enough on its own to make me think Skipton didnt  given  them a choice about  taking  the 
PPI.  And I havent seen  anything else to make me think  Skipton  didnt  give them a choice. 
So, based  on what I have,  I think Mr and Mrs S agreed to buy the PPI - and there isnt 
enough to make me think Skipton  didnt give them a choice about  buying it.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us Skipton gave them advice or recommended they take the PPI. If 
Skipton did recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, it had to do more  and check the PPI was 
right for them. Ive assessed  the case on that basis - which places on Skipton  a higher level 
of responsibility for the sale.
The PPI was cover to help protect  Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage in case of unemployment or 
disability. And based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think 
the cover  was right for them. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the cover  like exclusions for any existing health problems. So they couldve 
claimed the policy benefit if the circumstances arose.
Also Mr and Mrs S seem to have  had a need  for the cover. From what  theyve  told us, Mr Ss 
pay for sickness or redundancy wouldve halved  after three months, Mrs Ss wouldve halved  
after six months. For a successful disability or redundancy  claim, the PPI wouldve paid out 
for up to twelve months  and the benefit  wouldve been paid in addition  to Mr and Mrs Ss 
work benefits. Mr and Mrs S had significant savings to fall back on, but the PPI benefit would 
Ref: DRN14442622help protect their savings,  or leave them free to meet other expenses.  So it would give 
Mr and Mrs S greater  security at what could be a difficult time if either Mr or Mrs S lost their 
job or was too sick to work.
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it. And, for the reasons Ive given above, 
it seems like the cover wouldve been useful and Mr and Mrs S wouldve been able to claim  
on it if something went wrong. Taking  everything into account,  I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs S off taking the cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether 
Skipton treated them unfairly. 
Skipton has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Skipton has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think Skipton needed to tell Mr and Mrs S 
about the commission  so I dont think Skipton treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay them back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ss points, including what theyve  said about the cost of the 
cover being  significant,  and not being able to look for alternative cover.  But in the light of all 
Ive said above  and for the reasons Ive given, these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444262