K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to her. 
Miss B wants Sunny to refund the interest  and charges  that she paid.
background
Miss B took out 19 loans with Sunny  between  October 2016  and June  2017.  Miss B says 
she couldnt afford the loans and didnt have enough  money  left to pay her general living 
costs.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Bs complaint be upheld  in part. The adjudicator 
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans six to 21. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges Miss B had paid on the affected  loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny entirely  remove loans six to 19 from Miss Bs 
credit file. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that based on the information it held 
about Miss B, the loans were affordable  for her. And that Miss Bs monthly repayments 
accounted for a very small proportion of her monthly  income. 
Sunny said that it offers customers  a flexible product allowing them  to take out up to four 
loans at any one time.  So Sunny didnt agree that taking out a multiple loans at a time is an 
indication that the lending  was unsustainable. 
As Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation, the complaint has come  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Miss B, the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
Ref: DRN13161122should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss B could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B hasnt made  any comments about the adjudicators opinion  as it relates to loans one 
to five. Because of this, I dont  think there is any ongoing dispute  about these loans. So I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But as the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship that Miss B had with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering  her 
other loans.
loans six to 19
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss B with a view to seeing  
if there was a point  at which  Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Miss B any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because the overall  pattern of Miss Bs borrowing suggested that shed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Ref: DRN13161123Loan six was the sixth loan that Miss B had taken out in three months. And in the first month 
of borrowing, Miss B had taken out three separate loans totalling £650. 
Although Miss B was scheduled to repay  each  loan over a number of months,  she often 
repaid them  early. For example, Miss B repaid loan two seven days after she took it out. 
Miss B repaid loan one on the same day as she repaid loan two and then immediately took 
out loan three for £300.
Miss B continued to take on new loans that overlapped with a previous loan  sometimes  
borrowing two, three  and finally four times  in the same month.  This meant  that Miss B was 
repaying more than one loan at a time.
I consider the pattern of repeated lending shouldve indicated to Sunny  that Miss B was 
facing financial difficulties.  And Sunny shouldve realised that it was more likely  than not 
Miss B was reliant on short term lending and needed to borrow further to fill the hole 
repaying her previous  loans was leaving in her finances. 
Miss B wasnt making any real inroads into what she owed Sunny and her indebtedness was 
being prolonged. This meant that Miss B had been paying large amounts of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to Sunny  over a long period.
I think that Miss B lost out because  Sunny  continued  to lend money from loan six onwards  
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Bs ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about loans six to 19. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss B paid on loans six to 19;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 19 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 21 should be removed from       
Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN13161124My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1316112