K820x#14Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Madison  CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) have held him 
liable for a loan he says was taken out fraudulently.
Background
In May 2018, a loan application was made  with Madison.  It was approved  and the proceeds 
of £3,500 were  paid into a bank account  controlled  by Mr R. He told us that this bank 
account wasnt his main account.  Most  of his account activity was with a current  account he 
held with a different bank.
Hes said he didnt make  the loan application and so Madison shouldnt  hold him liable for 
the repayments. Hes pointed out that key information that was collected as part of the 
application process was incorrect. Hes also pointed out that its quite clear from the phone 
call he has with Madison  about the loan, that the person making the call wasnt him. 
Mr R made  a separate complaint  to this service about the fact that payments from that 
current account were processed  by his bank. That complaint was looked at separately by 
another ombudsman  who concluded on balance that its likely Mr R did authorise those 
payments.
This complaint was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator noted  
that the proceeds of the loan were paid into his account. As wed separately concluded that 
hed authorised the spending on that account,  the Investigator thought  it was fair and 
reasonable for Madison  to hold him liable for the repayments. Mr R disagreed with the 
investigators opinion  and so the complaint has been  passed to me to consider and reach  a 
final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the Investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I dont doubt or disbelieve Mr R when he tells me that he wasnt  responsible for the loan 
application. But any decision I reach must  be supported by the available  evidence.  The 
evidence thats  available  to me here isnt definitive  its inconclusive  and unclear. In those 
circumstances, I must decide  this case on the balance of probabilities. 
There are clear indications in the evidence that Mr R may not have been  the individual  
responsible for making the loan application. As hes pointed out, some of the details 
collected at the application stage were wrong and Madison spoke to someone  as part of the 
application that sounds very unlike Mr R.
However, a fraudster who applied for a loan in Mr Rs name and had the funds  paid into his 
account would need to compromise the security of that account in order  to take advantage of 
the fraud.  From what Mr R has told us, theres  no plausible  explanation  as to how the 
security of his account couldve  been  compromised. Hes said that he lost his card, but he 
didnt share  his PIN with anyone, write  it down  and was generally careful  about  making  sure 
it couldnt be observed if he was using the card. 
Ref: DRN11670852Even if Mr Rs card incidentally fell into the wrong  hands, it wouldnt have enabled  a third 
party to use his account to carry out a fraud of this kind. Theres a similar difficulty  with the 
fact that some of the transfers from this account required access  to his online banking  and 
theres no coherent explanation as to how a fraudster couldve obtained his security 
credentials to do so. 
The use of the current account after this loan was paid in also wasnt suggestive  of the 
account being used by a fraudster. In most of the cases we see, a fraudster will look to move  
on any proceeds as quickly as possible to minimise the risk of detection and access  to the 
account being prevented. Ive looked at the statements for account and that isnt what  
happened here. 
Mr R has pointed out that there were 2 other loans taken out at the same time and those 
lenders have chosen to write  off the debts. I dont know what motivated them  to take that 
action, but Im afraid it doesnt  automatically  follow that Madison has to do likewise.
I cant know for certain what happened, but Im satisfied that the weight of the evidence 
supports Madisons position that Mr R was responsible for or benefitted from the loan 
application. It follows that I think its reasonable for it to hold Mr R responsible  for the 
repayments.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1167085