K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that A One Insurance Services (Bmth) Limited (AO Insurance) didnt 
highlight the amount hed receive in the event of a claim. 
background
When taking out the policy,  Mr P chose an insured amount of £17,000 for his classic  car. 
Mr P was sent renewal  documents in 2013, and 2014 showing the car valuation as £17,000. 
The pre-renewal documents  said it was essential  that all material  information is disclosed to 
the UnderwritersFailure to do so may result in you not being  fully covered in the event of a 
claim. This wording was written  in bold. 
In 2015, Mr P was sent a further  renewal letter from AO Insurance.  This letter  said Please 
review all documentation  in particular any statement of fact or proposal form to ensure the 
information we have regarding your policy is correct  and advise us immediately if this is not 
the case. Mr P continued his policy on the same terms. 
In August  2015,  Mr P asked to update  the valuation for his policy.  In line with the process  set 
by the insurer,  Mr P completed  a valuation form, and provided  images  to support a valuation 
of £19,000. This information was sent to the insurer and AO Insurance  on 4 August. On the 
same date the insurer issued an Agreed Valuation  Certificate (AVC) to AO Insurance 
showing the agreed value as £19,000. AO Insurance forwarded this to Mr P.
In 2016, 2017, and 2018 Mr P was sent renewal letters  for his policy  by AO Insurance. The 
renewal letters explained that it was important  that Mr P reviewed all the documentation  to 
ensure that all the information held by AO Insurance was correct.  In particular, the renewal  
letters explained the following:
2016- The demands  and needs statement recorded  that Mr P had requested  
comprehensive motor  insurance [and] that the vehicle  value is £19,000.  
2017- The cover letter explained  in bold I appreciate that the enclosed information pack  is 
lengthy, but with regulation at its tightest,  for your own protection, please review the attached 
letter The heading  Risk  information recorded that the vehicle value was £19,000.
2018- Under the heading Risk  information it was recorded that the vehicle value was 
£19,000. 
In July 2018 Mr Ps car was involved in an accident  which resulted in it being declared a total 
loss by the insurer. Mr Ps insurer paid him £19,000 in settlement of his claim.  Mr P 
complained to AO Insurance  about this amount  (a separate complaint was raised with the 
insurer, but this doesnt  form part of this investigation).  
Mr Ps complaint to AO Insurance was about  the lack of information provided to him about 
the valuation of his car. Mr P found that at the time of the accident his car was worth  
approximately £27,500, and so the settlement  value of £19,000  meant hes out of pocket.  
Mr P also complained that the renewal letters reminded Mr P to tell AO about changes like 
use of car, and annual  mileage, but didnt highlight the valuation  limitation  in the event of a 
claim. 
Ref: DRN17702972AO Insurance  considered  Mr Ps complaint and didnt offer any compensation. It explained 
that it had clearly informed Mr P at each renewal date what the insured amount was, and 
changes were made to the policy when this was requested. Mr P was unhappy with this 
response and referred his complaint  to this service. 
The investigator found that AO Insurance couldve done more to ask Mr P if he wanted to 
update the insured amount on his policy. However,  the investigator  also said that it was 
Mr Ps responsibility to make sure that the insured amount was a fair reflection of the value 
of his car, and what hed expect to be paid out in the event of a claim.  Mr P disagreed with 
this, saying that AO Insurance  failed in its responsibility as his broker.  As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved,  its been passed  to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr P. Having reviewed the case,  I 
broadly agree with the investigators findings, and I wont be recommending AO Insurance 
do anything more. I can understand this is likely  to come as a disappointment to Mr P, but I 
hope my findings  go some way in explaining why Ive reached  this decision.   
Mr P feels  strongly that AO insurance shouldve done more to highlight the importance of 
insuring his car for the right amount; reflective  of the increase in value over the years. 
Ive looked at what Mr P was told in the renewal  letters sent to him. I agree with Mr Ps 
comments that the letters dont specifically highlight to Mr P that he should check  that the 
insured amount reflects the market value  of his car. But I dont think  it would  be fair to say 
AO Insurance  didnt do enough to make Mr P aware of the importance of checking the policy  
documents. Although the level of customer service wouldve been better if the increase in 
value of Mr Ps car wouldve been  highlighted and explained, I cant say this failing makes  
the service provided  unfair, or unacceptable. 
I think the reminder letters clearly told Mr P to check that the information  recorded was 
correct. The renewal documents sent in 2016,  2017 and 2018 told Mr P that the insured 
amount was £19,000. The option to amend the insured amount was open to Mr P at each  
renewal, but I cant see that Mr P contacted AO Insurance  to do this. 
In 2015 Mr P decided  to increase the valuation for his car. Its fair to say that this decision 
was informed by Mr Ps own knowledge of the market, and the need to ensure  he had 
enough cover to protect him in the event of a claim.  I cant  say that AO Insurance had a role 
in advising about  the worth of Mr Ps car at the time.  I wouldnt expect it to have this 
knowledge or offer this advice. As Mr P chose  to increase the valuation in 2015, I think its 
reasonable to say that he understood the risks and consequences of what  the insured 
amount was and decided  to increase the valuation because of this.
Mr P says that as his insurance broker, AO Insurance had a responsibility  to provide 
information about the classic car market, and, the importance of having the most up to date 
valuation for insurance  purposes.  I agree that this level of service  may have meant  that Mr P 
was prompted  to review  whether the valuation hed agreed in 2015 was still most reflective 
Ref: DRN17702973of the market of his car at future renewals. But I dont think  it would be fair to say that Mr P 
should be compensated by AO Insurance  because it didnt highlight this information to Mr P. 
I think the renewal letters  went far enough in telling Mr P to check the information hed 
provided about the cover he wanted  was correct. 
I think AO Insurance did enough to inform  Mr P what his policy  would cover  him for in the 
event of a claim.  Mr P agreed to the amount he was covered for by continuing to insure  his 
car through  AO Insurance. Because of this, I wont be recommending AO Insurance pay any 
compensation for this complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1770297