K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains that Usay Business Limited (Usay) mis-sold her and her husband  a 
private medical insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Ms W held a health insurance  policy with Company A since  2012.  In early 2018  they 
approached Usay to obtain quotes  for a new policy due to increasing premiums.  Usay 
recommended a Moratorium policy with Company B.
Usay says it explained the Moratorium policy would  mean any symptoms,  treatment, 
medication or advice  received in the last five years would initially be excluded on the policy. 
But it said the condition  could become covered  in two years if they remained free of any 
further symptoms, treatment, medication or advice.
Usay was told Mr W had raised PSA levels some years before, but this was no longer an 
issue. Mr W still did have  regular tests for this but this was for his own peace of mind. And 
over a number of conversations Usay also discussed Ms Ws medical history. She explained 
she was still taking medication related to a previous cancer diagnosis. It said as a result  of 
the ongoing medication Ms Ws condition would not be covered by a Moratorium policy, but 
any new primary cancer would be covered in full.
Mr and Ms W then contacted Company B directly. During this conversation an option  to 
switch terms with their existing policy  under a Continued Moratorium  policy   was 
discussed. 
Mr and Ms W were  interested  in this cover, but because of a discount Usay  was offering  
several months of cover for free  they went back to Usay. Usay said Mr and Ms W said 
theyd reviewed the policy documents themselves and been  told by Company B they could  
take the policy without any exclusions.  Usay spoke to Company B to clarify this and Usay  
said it agreed. So Usay recommended and sold the Continued Moratorium policy.  
After the policy  was set up Mr and Ms W discovered their policy did include an exclusion  
specifically affecting  Mr W. Company B said Mr W had raised PSA levels  prior to taking  his 
2012 policy, and as the terms had continued  from their existing insurance this condition  
wouldnt be covered   in the same way it wouldnt have been covered under his previous 
insurance with Company  A.
Mr and Ms W said this policy exclusion wasnt disclosed to them before taking the policy   
so they said it was mis-sold. Usay said it had relied  on what  Company B told it and couldnt  
be held responsible for its change in position. And it said overall the policy  provided  a high 
level of cover, covering the same  conditions as their previous 2012 policy with Company A, 
at a cheaper cost.
One of our investigators  looked into things. She said Ms W told Usay  they wouldnt want a 
policy if Mr W was left without cover. And Usay had reassured her that Mr Ws raised PSA 
levels wouldnt be excluded. But Company B since confirmed any condition  Mr W had 
related to this symptom  would be excluded from the policy unless he were to have a two 
year consecutive period  without treatment, diagnostic tests, advice or medication.
Ref: DRN15859172The investigator highlighted  an email conversation between  Usay and Company B. Usay 
said this showed  Company B had confirmed  Mr Ws raised PSA levels  wouldnt be excluded. 
However the investigator said the questions asked  didnt specify the details of his medical 
history  including previous  high readings  and regular six monthly check  ups. She said this 
ambiguity was the likely  cause  for inaccurate  information being given by Company  B.
So the investigator said Usay hadnt  provided enough detail about Mr Ws medical history 
when asking Company B about  the policy. And as a result itd obtained  and relied on the 
wrong information. This meant Mr and Ms Ws expectation of an exclusion  free policy 
werent met. So while the investigator didnt think Mr and Ms W had lost out financially  as 
they maintained  the same  level of cover  for a lower cost  she did think theyd been caused 
trouble and upset.  So she recommended Usay pay them £150 for the loss of expectation.
Usay agreed to the assessment but Mr and Ms W didnt. They said their previous level of 
cover with Company  A was irrelevant.  And Mr and Ms W asked Usay to give them £1,750  in 
compensation, taking  into account a policy that did provide cover for Mr W was likely to be a 
higher cost. More  recently Ms W provided a quote from another  business  which  she says 
demonstrates she could have got the level of cover  she wanted at a price within her budget. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint for largely the same  reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive listened carefully  to the calls between Ms W and Usay.  And Im satisfied Mr and Ms W 
wanted a policy that would provide cover  for both of them without any exclusions. Im also 
satisfied Usay gave  reassurances   based on its own knowledge and questions to Company 
B  that this would be the case.
Usay and Company  B may disagree about the cause of misinformation to Mr and Ms W. But 
its not in dispute that they were  sold a policy that didnt provide them with the cover they 
expected because of the exclusions related  to Mr Ws health.
Usay said Company B is responsible for the mistake as it had provided  assurances  to Usay 
when specifically asked  about this. Having  read this email chain myself I think  the question 
asked by Usay  was brief and vague.  Especially taking into account what it knew about 
Mr Ws health and given  it was making  a recommendation. So I think Usay did something 
wrong at this point,  and I think  its most  likely that more detail given at this time wouldve 
likely prevented this confusion for Mr and Ms W.
Ive considered the impact of this mistake. Mr and Ms W were  sold a cheaper  policy  on the 
same terms  as their previous policy with Company A. And from what  Ive seen at no point  
have they needed to claim  on the policy. So I dont think theyve lost out financially. 
Ref: DRN15859173Mr and Ms W have  said to find a policy now that will cover Mr Ws health will cost a lot more, 
however this wouldve always been  the case given the higher risk involved. So this doesnt  
change my mind. Whilst Ms W has provided  a quote  from another  business she hasnt  
provided the terms of that policy so Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it 
would have offered  her a higher level of cover. 
In any event, as Ive outlined above, theres no evidence that Mr and Ms W have lost out as 
theyve not needed to claim  on the policy. And they chose not to renew it earlier  this year.  
Given the assurances Usay gave  I can understand Mr and Ms Ws frustration on their 
discovery that the policy wouldnt cover  them for what  they wanted. And Im satisfied this 
mistake led to a loss of expectation for them. And taking into account the circumstances of 
this complaint I think £150 is fair and reasonable compensation.  So Im not asking Usay  to 
do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint  and asking Usay Business  Limited  to 
pay Ms W £150  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1585917