K822xcomplaint
Mr Ps complaint is about Financial Administration  Services Limited  (known as Fidelity), his 
investment manager  in 2016 and in 2017  during which he says:
Fidelity did not follow  his instructions to execute a change of funds in his personal 
portfolio(s) on 1 July 2016. [issue 1]
Fidelity made a series  of unauthorised investment switches in his portfolio(s)  between  
September 2016 and January 2017 and it is not clear that this has been redressed. 
[issue 2]
In addition, the unauthorised switches resulted in a loss of access to the portfolio(s) at 
the time.  [issue 3]
Fidelity caused scheduled  withdrawal payments from his portfolios to be missed in the 
summer of 2016. [issue 4]
background
Mr Ps pursuit has been ongoing since 2016 and it is based on his interests and, separately,  
the interests of a pension fund for which he is trustee.  Furthermore,  in addition to Fidelitys  
role as the investment manager (for Mr P and the pension  fund)  a third party adviser  
features in the matter. Mr P has also sought  to recover his costs in the pursuit.
Four complaints  each  of the two complainants  against each of the two respondent firms  
have arisen from or around the matter. The other  three complaints are being  addressed  
separately. To date and within this service,  all four complaints  have been  considered  in a 
somewhat collective manner. Over time, this led to well-rehearsed and sometimes revised  
submissions by the parties  and also to revised views  by the investigator  who considered the 
complaints. The summary  below  captures  the current state of the present complaint:
Issue 1 is about Mr Ps instructions  to execute specific  investment switches on 1 July 
2016. The investigator concluded that the third party adviser is responsible for the delay 
in execution up to September 2016  when Fidelity  received the instructions,  and from 
then onwards Fidelity  is responsible.  Fidelity agrees and says it has redressed the issue  
by applying corrections/adjustments to the funds from 12 September  2016 (when its 
responsibility begins).  The matter  appears  to remain unsettled because the third party 
adviser says Fidelity should  have more responsibility in the issue.
Fidelity has conceded  issue 2, which relates to unauthorised investment switches it says 
it mistakenly made in late 2016  in an initial attempt to repair the effect  of issue 1. The 
investigator concluded that redress  for issue 1  beginning from 1 July (under the third 
party advisers responsibility),  continuing from 12 September (under Fidelitys 
responsibility) and calculated thereafter  until March  2017   already caters for issue  2 as 
the period of unauthorised  switches is within the redress period for issue 1.
Fidelity also appears to concede issue 3 and it offered Mr P £500  on a goodwill basis  for 
the inconvenience caused to him. The investigator concluded that the offer was fair. 
Beyond this, she did not consider that there was enough evidence  to identify what Mr P 
may or may not have  done with his funds if he had access at the time.
With regards to issue 4, during July and August 2016 income payments from some funds 
were missed,  thereby  reducing the total income/withdrawal amounts Mr P received from 
two portfolios Fidelity  managed. This was rectified in September  2016.  Fidelity 
reimbursed the deficit. The investigator concluded that Fidelity should also give Mr P £75 
for the trouble and upset caused by the issue.
Ref: DRN10205002The investigator explained, with reasons, that this service does not normally make 
awards for costs  and why she did not uphold  Mr Ps request for such an award.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
I affirm Fidelitys  responsibility for this issue from 12 September  2016 onwards, which  it 
concedes. I considered the dispute over responsibility for the period between 1 July 2016 
and 12 September  2016 in a separate decision related  to the third party  adviser. I concluded 
that the third party adviser is responsible for that period. It follows  that Fidelity is not 
responsible for that period. I note that redress, for this issue,  to Mr P appears to have  
already been applied  by Fidelity for its responsibility from 12 September 2016 onwards.
Issue 2
I affirm Fidelitys  responsibility for this issue, which it concedes. I agree with the 
investigators conclusion  that the redress applied for issue  1 (covering the period between 
September 2016 and March 2017) also incorporates redress for issue  2 which  relates to the 
same portfolios for the period between September 2016 and January  2017.
Issue 3
The relevant  loss of access does not appear  to be in dispute, however in terms of a financial 
loss arising from this issue I too do not consider that there  is enough evidence  to say what 
Mr P would have done with his investments but for the loss of access at the time. Without a 
basis for compensation (for financial loss)  I agree with the investigator that Fidelitys offer of 
£500 is a fair form of compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr P by the loss of 
access to the portfolios  at the time.
Issue 4
The deficits  in or missing income  payments  from the relevant  two funds appear to have 
already been repaid to Mr P. I agree with the investigators conclusion that Fidelity should  
pay him an additional £75 for the trouble and upset  caused to him by this issue.
Cost Award
I have reached the same  conclusion as the investigator in this respect,  and for the same 
reasons. I do not consider there should  be an award to cover  the costs Mr P has referred to.
what should  Fidelity do?
All of the issues in Mr Ps complaint have been upheld.  Issues  1 and 2 appear to have  
already been redressed, otherwise the redress agreed between  the investigator  and 
Fidelity applies.
Fidelity must pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset caused to him in issue 3, unless it 
has already made and Mr P has already received  this payment.
Ref: DRN10205003Fidelity must pay Mr P £75 for the trouble and upset caused  to him in issue 4, unless  it 
has already made and Mr P has already received  this payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order  Financial Administration 
Services Limited (known as Fidelity) to pay him compensation  as ordered above. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my 
decision before  25 February 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1020500