K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat) was irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr D took out four instalment  loans with Cashfloat  between September 2015 and April 2016.  
Ive included more  information about  the loans below:
loan date takenrepayments 
dueamount 
borrowedhighest 
repaymentdate repaid
1 17 September 2015 4 £500 £215 30 September  2015
2 1 February  2016 2 £500 £332 29 February 2016
3 29 February 2016 4 £600 £241 31 March 2016
4 14 April 2016 3 £350 £189 28 April 2016
Mr D doesnt think that Cashfloat carried out adequate checks. Mr D says that his credit file 
and repeat borrowing indicated that he was in financial difficulties and was using the loans to 
pay for day to day living expenses. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld.  Mr D disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN19154782There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Cashfloat says it agreed to lend to Mr D each time after he gave it details of his monthly  
income and outgoings and this included costs for food, utility  bills, loans, travel,  other credit 
and rent or mortgage costs.  As well as this, Cashfloat has told us that if anything Mr D 
declared seemed  low, they increased  the amount. 
Cashfloat also carried out credit checks which showed that there had been no defaults 
applied within the last 36 months,  no debt management plans or County  Court  Judgments.
When Mr D applied for each loan, he declared  his net monthly income to vary between  
£3,250 and £3,550.  I appreciate  that Mr D thinks his repeat lending shouldve  given cause 
for concern but there was a break of over four months between repaying  loan one and 
asking for loan two. 
Although Mr D applied  for loans two to four within a fairly short space of time, I dont think 
that this was enough on its own to establish a pattern  of repeated  lending  or reliance on 
short term lending. Given the relatively modest  proportion of Mr Ds declared monthly 
income that each  of the loan repayments  represented, I consider Cashfloats  checks were  
proportionate. 
There was nothing of concern  in Cashfloats  credit  checks that shouldve prompted  further  
checks. So I dont  think Cashfloat needed  to take further steps  to verify the information that 
Mr D provided.  This means  that even though Mr Ds financial  situation may have been worse  
than he disclosed to Cashfloat, I dont think what I consider to have been  proportionate 
checks wouldve revealed this.
Overall, it appeared  to Cashfloat that Mr D could  afford to repay each loan. So I cant  say 
that Cashfloat was wrong to agree to lend. It follows  that I dont require Cashfloat to refund 
any money to Mr D or remove any negative information about the loans from his credit  file. 
Im sorry  that this is likely  to come as a disappointment.
Ref: DRN19154783my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1915478