K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited imposed restrictions to the number of 
funds he could invest in causing him financial loss.
background
Mr O set up his Personal  Pension Plan (the plan) with Standard Life in 1994. 
By January 2018, Mr O had invested  in 18 funds and then issued instructions to 
Standard Life to invest in three new funds. Standard Life refused to follow these  instructions  
informing Mr O this would  take him over the 20 fund limit which applied to his plan.
Mr O complained to Standard Life. He says the key facts document  at that time of setting up 
the plan didnt refer to a maximum number of funds  he could invest  in. And because of this, 
he didnt think the plan had a fund restriction. He considers Standard  Life unilaterally 
imposed the limit without informing him. Mr O transferred his plan to a new provider in 
March 2018 and was charged £498  by Standard Life for the switch.
Standard Life didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It explained that Mr Os pension  plan was 
never designed to be invested in more than 20 funds over its lifetime. Standard Life offered  
to switch Mr O to one of its newer  policies which would allow him to invest  in a maximum of 
99 funds. It said it would not charge Mr O for switching to its newer  products. Further,  it 
would replicate the charging structure  of the previous plan to ensure Mr O wasnt financially 
disadvantaged. Standard  Life said it would  not make good  any financial loss Mr O mayve 
suffered as it had offered him alternative products. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr O brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
Standard Life hadnt put the 20 fund limit in its key facts document  from the 90s.  But 
she considered  its offer to switch Mr Os pension plan to a newer policy  with an 
increased number  of fund options, was fair. Mr O disagreed  with the investigators 
view and asked for the matter to be passed  to an ombudsman  for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Before I begin, I just wanted to note that I know Mr O has raised a number of 
points. And although  I may not mention every  point hes raised, Ive considered everything 
he has said but limited  my findings  to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case.
Theres no dispute the key facts document  from the 90s relating  to Mr Os pension plan, 
omitted information about the restrictions to the number of funds he could invest  in. This 
information was in the key facts document dated 2017. Because  of this Mr O considers 
Standard Life has unilaterally changed  his pension plan.
But whilst the key facts  document  from the 90s does not refer to a fund limit, it also 
does not expressly  say the policyholder has an unlimited choice in funds. And I dont 
think the omission of the plans limits meant the plan had no restrictions at all. 
Standard Life says there were relatively  few funds when Mr O set up the plan. It has 
also said the plan was never  designed  to accommodate more  than the 20 fund limit. 
And based on this, I think its more  likely  than not, that there was a restriction  from the 
Ref: DRN16541442outset but this information was omitted  from the early key facts document. So Ill 
consider the impact of this on Mr O.
I think it mustve  been disappointing  for Mr O to be told about the limit only in 2018.  But 
I see a week after being told this, Standard Life offered to switch him to one of its newer 
plans. I see Mr O didnt want to accept  this offer. He says it would still involve 
restrictions whereas he felt his original  plan had no such  restrictions.  But as Ive said 
above, I think its likely it always had some  limit  as does his new policy with a different 
provider  but these limits were omitted from the key facts document.
Further, I dont consider the number of funds he could invest in was a key 
consideration at the time he chose  the plan. I say this because Mr O says this was not 
considered by him or his financial advisor  at the time of setting up the plan. And I see 
the years  before 2018, hed only invested in 18 different funds over a 23 year period,  
with switches occurring  in 2001, 2009,  2015, 2016 and 2017. So whilst I dont think 
the issue of the fund limit was a key issue when setting up the plan, I see that it did 
become increasingly  important to Mr O as he approached retirement age.
I see the offer made by Standard Life wouldve been  at no extra cost and came with an 
option to invest  in up to 99 funds over the lifetime  of the plan. Mr O doesnt think 
99 funds is that many.  But taking into account his age and that the maximum age under 
the policy is 75, even if he invested  in the way he proposes  two new funds each year 
up until retirement  hed still have enough  scope to do this. So I do think the offer 
made by Standard Life is reasonable under  the circumstances.
I know Mr O wants  to be compensated for losses he suffered when his fund requests were 
refused by Standard Life. But one of the funds  was closed. This meant  he couldve invested 
in two other funds  as this wouldve taken him up to the 20 fund limit. And a week  later 
Standard Life offered  to switch his plan to one of its newer policies.  But given what  Mr O has 
told this service, I think even if this offer had been  made earlier, he would never have 
accepted it. So I dont think it would be reasonable for Standard Life to make up for any 
losses Mr O mayve suffered.
I note Mr O is unhappy Standard Life sent him the updated key facts  document from 2017 
rather than the earlier document. But Standard  Life explained this was a similar document 
rather than the same one he was given in the 90s.  I see it has apologised for any confusion  
this mayve caused. And I wont be asking it to do anything further in this regard.
So whilst I appreciate  this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr O, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1654144