K822xComplaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc completed a credit search without permission 
and recorded  information on his credit  file. 
Background 
On 22 August 2018 Capital One completed a credit check  as part of a quotation search. 
Capital One says it works with other  businesses  to provide an estimate  of how likely an 
applicant is to be accepted for a credit card by completing a quotation search. Capital  One 
says the search  will be visible to the consumer for 12 month but it only retains information 
about them  for 90 days. 
On 1 September 2018 Mr S complained  to Capital One about the information hed found on 
his credit file. Capital One says it responded to Mr S by email on 11 September 2018,  but he 
didnt receive it. Capital Ones final response said a soft credit search had been completed to 
see whether Mr S would  qualify for a credit card. But Capital One said that as Mr S didnt 
recognise the credit search it would delete it within the next four to six weeks. 
Mr S also referred his concerns to our service and further complained that he hadnt 
received a response to his original complaint. Capital One said it had responded to Mr S 
original complaint by email on 11 September 2018.  
An adjudicator at this service  looked  at Mr S complaint. They  thought Capital Ones  offer to 
delete the credit search information  was reasonable. Mr S said the information remained on 
his credit file despite Capital  Ones  assurances it would be deleted. Mr S said Capital One 
had failed to respond to his original complaint in good time which  meant we couldnt  now see 
what had happened. Mr S asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make  
a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr S is very upset at the information Capital One recorded on his credit file. Mr S 
has raised concerns  that someone  may have accessed his information and that Capital One 
has completed a credit  search without permission. In addition,  Mr S feels Capital One 
unfairly delayed  responding to his complaint his has impacted the amount of information we 
now have available. Im going to start by dealing  with the complaint response  issues  Mr S 
has raised. 
Mr S first complained via Resolver  on 1 September 2018, a few days  after the credit  check 
was completed.  Mr S says Capital One didnt respond. But Capital  One has forwarded us a 
copy of its final response  dated 11 September 2018. The final response is marked as being  
sent by email. I recently asked the adjudicator to check the email address Capital One used 
when responding to Mr S complaint. Capital One has provided  details  of the email address it 
used and I can confirm  its the same  as the one Mr S has given this service.  
Whilst I understand Mr S is unhappy  that he didnt  receive Capital Ones response to his 
complaint, Im satisfied  it was sent as claimed. Mr S says Capital One took too long to 
investigate and respond to his complaint. But Capital One issued  its final response in less 
Ref: DRN17515962than two weeks. I know Mr S didnt receive  the email, but as Ive said above, Im satisfied 
Capital One did respond as it claims. 
Information about quotation  searches isnt retained over the long term. Capital One says it 
only retains that sort of information for a 90 day period.  Capital One also says that quotation  
searches arent visible to other parties reviewing a credit file so dont impact  the overall 
score. In addition, Capital  One has confirmed the credit search information would only be 
visible to Mr S for a year. 
Ive looked at the information Capital One has given about quotation, or soft, credit searches. 
The main  credit reference agencies all provide guidance about this type of search.  And all 
the information Ive seen  is in line with what Capital One has told Mr S about the type of 
search completed. So whilst I understand why Mr S is concerned, I havent seen anything to 
show the quotation search  was visible to anyone other than him or that it led to a financial 
loss. Im satisfied that the quotation  search wouldnt have had a negative  impact on Mr S 
ability to secure credit  and wasnt visible to third parties.
Unfortunately, due to the time thats  passed Capital  One hasnt got any records  of the 
circumstances under which the credit search  was carried out. Capital One has confirmed 
that it doesnt have any records of a credit card application from Mr S around the time the 
quotation search was completed.  And Capital One has explained that other  businesses  use 
the quotation search facility to check whether consumers are likely to be approved  for a 
credit card. I understand  Mr S concerns, but I think its more likely than not that the 
quotation search was completed by one of these businesses. As Ive said above, I havent  
found that Mr S ability to get other credit was impacted and I havent seen anything to show  
the quotation search has led to a financial loss. 
Capital One said it would  take steps  to remove the credit search from Mr S credit file when it 
responded to his complaint on 11 September 2018.  During the investigation Mr S said that 
the quotation search remained  on his credit file. The investigator  went back  to Capital One 
and it sent systems information to show the quotation search from September  2018 is no 
longer on Mr S credit file. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the quotation search from 
September 2018 isnt on Mr S credit  file any longer. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter. But, for the 
reasons Ive given  above, Im satisfied that Capital One dealt with Mr S complaint fairly. As a 
result, Im not telling Capital One to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1751596