K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000. This 
was done during a telephone  call between Mr G and MBNA  and was added to Mr Gs 
existing credit card account. Mr G says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr G says he took the credit card out at an event and he opted not to have the policy.  MBNA 
has provided a copy  of Mr Gs application  form and I can see Mr G didnt take PPI out at that 
time. 
MBNA says the policy was added to his credit  card account a couple of weeks later during a 
telephone call and it wouldve made  it clear it was optional. It has provided a copy of the call 
script it says its representative  wouldve followed during the telephone call with Mr G.
Looking at the call script,  I think MBNA made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the 
PPI. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  that MBNAs representative didnt follow the 
call script.  So I think  Mr G chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this.
MBNA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr G says he didnt have any sick pay 
benefits from his employer, so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. 
Ive noted Mr Gs comments about his savings and the fact he couldve sold his car. But 
having the PPI wouldve meant he could have used his savings to pay for other  things and it 
would have also meant he didnt need  to sell his car. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said but for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my decision.  I dont think Mr G has lost out by anything  MBNA might 
have done wrong.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN12925802For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1292580