K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006
alongside a commercial overdraft. Mr S1 and Mr S2 say HSBC UK Bank  plc mis-sold them
the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 16 April 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of
this decision, setting out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party  responded
with any evidence or comments for me to consider.  So based  on my previous findings, and
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the
policy was mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr S1 and Mr S2.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  HSBC UK Bank plc has to pay back  to Mr S1
and Mr S2 any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2006
alongside a commercial  overdraft. Mr S1 and Mr S2 say HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold them
the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15324752Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr S1 and Mr S2s case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the documents available  from the sale and from what  Ive seen,  I think HSBC
made it clear that Mr S1 and Mr S2 didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to
take it out to cover their business overdraft account in Mr S2s name only. I say this having
seen a copy  of the demands and needs form which was completed at the time. This shows
HSBC recommended they take out the PPI and the recommendation was accepted.  Ive also
seen pages 1 and 4 of a 5 page PPI application form. Unfortunately  due to the length of time
thats passed the other pages are no longer available. But the pages available  show that
cover was requested  for Mr S2 and so I think its likely  Mr S2 signed page 5 of this
application form.
As I mentioned above,  HSBC recommended the PPI to protect Mr S1 and Mr S2s
companys overdraft. So it had to check that the policy was right for their company and
Mr S2 (as the key person  insured). Based what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I
think HSBCs recommendation was suitable. I say this because Mr S2 was eligible for the
cover and I havent seen any evidence  that Mr S2 or the company were affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Ive also seen  the statement  of the company bank account for the year preceding  the sale of
the policy  which shows that the account was consistently  overdrawn. Ive also seen that the
PPI was added when Mr S2 met with HSBC to increase the companys overdraft facility. So
it seems like there was little financial leeway for the company had something gone wrong.  I
think the company  wouldve suffered financially  if Mr S2 was too sick to work for an extended
period. Its likely that if Mr S2 wasnt  able to work, there would be less money  coming  into
the company account and/or  additional  expenses. But the company would still have its usual
regular expenses to meet. Having the PPI policy  in place meant that if Mr S2 was off sick
from work for more than 30 days the a regular  monthly amount would be paid into the
account, which would go some way to limit any charges being incurred. So I think  the policy
wouldve been  useful  for the company and I think there was a need for it.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S1 and Mr S2 about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. And Mr S1 and Mr S2 say the PPI wasnt explained clearly to them  and it
didnt cover them for what they thought it would. Ive seen evidence that Mr S2 had an
accident for which he sought  medical  assistance. Mr S1 and Mr S2 say that they thought the
PPI wouldve paid out for the time Mr S2 had been off work as a result.  And because it
didnt, they think the policy was mis-sold to them.
The PPI policy included a 30 day deferment period. This means that the insured needed to
be off work  for more  than 30 days  before  any claim could be paid. While the PPI wasnt of
any use to Mr S1 and Mr S2 for the time Mr S2 was off work, had he been off work for more
than 30 days, the PPI wouldve paid out each month for up to 24 months.  So I still think  it
wouldve been  useful  for them had Mr S2 been too sick to work  for a longer time. Given  what
Ive said above about the consequences  of Mr S2 not working, I dont think better information
about the deferment period  would have put them off taking out the PPI.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint because she felt that the ongoing cost of the PPI
wasnt explained to Mr S1 and Mr S2  specifically  she didnt think  it was clear  that they
would have to pay for the PPI even if the account wasnt using the overdraft facility. She
thought that if this had been made clear, they wouldnt have taken  the policy because  she
didnt think Mr S1 and Mr S2 expected to be using the overdraft all the time.
I think  Mr S1 and Mr S2 would have had some understanding of the cost  that it was £10.09
Ref: DRN15324753a month. But I agree  theres nothing to show that HSBC made  the information  about  the
ongoing cost of the PPI clear  enough. Having said that, I dont agree that Mr S1 and Mr S2
wouldnt have taken out the PPI out if this information had been clearer.
As I mentioned above,  the PPI was sold when  Mr S1 and Mr S2 were applying  to extend
their company account  overdraft limit from £4,000 to £5,000.  And the statements from the
year preceding this show the company  account had consistently  overdrawn.  So I think they
had every intention of using their overdraft and based on their account balance,  I think they
expected to be in their overdraft for most of the time.  So even if Mr S1 and Mr S2 knew they
would have to pay for the policy when they were in credit, I still think they wouldve taken out
the PPI.
So while I think HSBC couldve made some of the information about the PPI clearer, Mr S1
and Mr S2 chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover for Mr S2 only.
And it seems  like it would have been useful for their company  if something went wrong. So I
dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
This means  HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S1 and Mr S2.
But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S1 and Mr S2 because:
HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
should have told Mr S1 and Mr S2 about that. Because HSBC didnt  tell Mr S1 and Mr S2, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
HSBC has to pay back  to Mr S1 and Mr S2 any commission and profit  share  it got that was
more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr S1 and Mr S2 any
extra interest  they paid because of that.
HSBC should pay back to Mr S1 and Mr S2 the extra they paid each month because the
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should also
pay Mr S1 and Mr S2 8%* simple interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S1 and Mr S2 can claim back the tax if 
they dont pay
tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell HSBC  UK Bank
plc to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S1 and Mr S2.
But I do intent to instruct  HSBC UK Bank plc to pay back to Mr S1 and Mr S2 any
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
I now invite  both parties to respond  by 16 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1532475