K820x#14complaint
Ms H, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us about payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies  she bought  from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). She 
took each policy to go with a mortgage that first started in or around 1991. She says the 
policies were mis-sold.
background
Ms H took out a policy in 1998 to go with the borrowing shed initially arranged  in 1991 
and then two further policies  to go with borrowing shed took out in 2006 and then 2008. 
Each policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Ms H says the PPI was never explained to her and she didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policies had been mis-sold. Because Ms H disagree,  
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Each of these sales took place quite some time ago. Whilst Ive thought  carefully about 
what Ms H remembers  from the sale of each policy, I also have to keep I mind  that 
inevitably she may not recall exactly what went on during each of the sales   nor would I 
expect her to. I also have to keep  in mind what I think is most likely to have happened 
during each sale, based on what Ive seen about  each sale and how I know these  sales 
operated at the time.
Ms H says she bought  each of the policies  in a meeting with Lloyds and that Lloyds made 
a recommendation  that she should buy them. Lloyds has confirmed that for each of the 
sales it made a recommendation that Ms H buy the policies. That means it had 
responsibility for ensuring that the policies were suitable for Ms Hs situation. Also,  the 
information it provided about the policies needed to be clear enough for Ms H to be able 
to make an informed choice about  buying  the cover.
Ive next looked at the available sale paperwork.  
I can see that in 1998  Ms H filled out a separate PPI proposal form setting out details of 
the amount of cover she wanted.  Ive also seen a copy of the policy schedule, confirming 
the start date and cost of the cover. And it looks like the schedule was sent to Ms H 
together with a policy document. 
For the 2006 sale, Ive also seen that Ms H completed a separate  PPI proposal form. 
Ref: DRN10271502For the 2008 PPI sale, I see that Ms H confirmed in statement of demands and needs that 
she wished to extend her existing  PPI cover to include the new borrowing she was taking.  
Again, Ive also seen  that she filled out a separate proposal form. Ive also noticed  that the 
mortgage agreement  Lloyds sent Ms H describes the PPI as Optional Insurance.
In addition, for each  of these sales Ms H had to give Lloyds her bank account  details  so 
that the PPI premiums  which were separate to their mortgage payments  could be 
taken. That also makes  me think that on each occasion she realised she was making  a 
decision to buy the policy.
Taking all this together, I think on each occasion Ms H gave some thought  about  buying 
the policy and the type of cover she wanted. I also think she was aware she didnt have to 
buy them.
Ive next looked at whether Ms H was disadvantaged by any of the conditions or limitations 
of the policies. The information Ive seen makes me think that she was eligible and would 
have been able to make a successful claim on these policies if shed needed to.
Each of the policies  paid out for up to 12 months  if Ms H made a successful claim.  Ms H 
told us she was entitled to benefits  from her employer if she was unable to work, of 
6 months at full pay followed  by another 6 months at half pay. She also told us that her 
family wouldve helped  out if necessary. 
From what  Ive seen, each policy would have paid out alongside and for longer than Ms Hs 
employer benefits.  Ive also kept in mind that Ms H appears to have been  the only wage 
earner who was responsible for making  the monthly  mortgage repayments. So I think  she 
had a use for the policies and they were suitable for her situation.  And each policy would 
have paid out alongside any other resources that Ms H might have been able to access.  
Having the cover also meant she wouldnt  have to seek  help from family  members, which  is 
something thats good to have available but which is always  subject to changing 
circumstances. 
All of this leads me to think that each policy was suitable for Ms Hs situation. 
From the available sale paperwork it looks as if Ms H ought to have been provided with 
details of the cost of each policy at around  the time of each sale  being £8.59 per month  
for the 1998 policy,  £29.09 per month  for the 2006  policy and £36.94 per month for the 
2008 policy. Ive no way of knowing if she definitely received these cost details.  But I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Ms H might have had problems  paying  for the 
cover.
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way information 
was given to Ms H about these polices - for instance, in relation to telling  her about the 
cost of each policy.  But, having looked at the sale carefully, and for much the same 
reasons I explained  above why I think the policies were suitable, I think  Ms H would  still 
have decided to go ahead  and buy them if shed been better  advised  and informed.
Overall, whilst Ive looked  at each of these sales carefully, Im not able to make a finding  
that any of these policies were  mis-sold.  I say this having also taken into account the 
detailed submissions Ms H made  following our adjudicators finding. Im sorry to have to  
disappoint Ms H on this occasion. 
Ref: DRN10271503my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint about  these three  PPI 
policies being  mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1027150