K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the decision taken by UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) to cancel  his car 
insurance policy. 
background
In April 2018, after Mr K took out his policy with UKI, he set up a direct debit instruction for 
his monthly insurance  premiums to be paid. On 8 May, UKI asked for its payment, but its 
request was rejected. On 30 May a further  request  for payment was also rejected. 
On 6 June Mr K set up another  direct debit instruction for his policy  premiums - the May 
payment was paid,  most likely by an over the phone payment. On 2 July UKI wrote  to Mr K 
as three  payments (April,  June and July)  were  outstanding. In this letter  UKI said it told Mr K 
his policy  would be cancelled, 14 days  later, on 16 July if these payments werent  made by 
this date. 
On 12 July Mr K contacted UKI and explained  hed been on holiday and had only just seen 
the cancellation letter. Mr K said he was told he needed to pay at least  Aprils premium to 
avoid the policy being cancelled. Mr K paid this and arranged to call back  by 23 July to pay 
the two months  that remained outstanding.
Mr K didnt contact UKI as he said he would. On 10 August,  UKI sent a second cancellation 
letter, asking Mr K to settle  the outstanding balance to avoid the policy  being cancelled.  Mr K 
contacted UKI on 23 August and made three payments (June, July and August) bringing his 
account up to date. 
On 6 September UKI attempted to take that months  payment by direct debit, but this too 
was rejected. On 13 September UKI said it wrote to Mr K saying that the payment hadnt  
been successful  and the policy would  be cancelled if the payment wasnt  received  by 27 
September. As the payment wasnt made, Mr Ks policy was cancelled.
On 1 October,  Mr K said he checked  his bank statement and saw the September  payment 
hadnt been taken. He contacted UKI to complain about this, and he was told his policy had 
been cancelled.  
Mr K said his account was up to date and wanted UKI to reinstate his policy, or compensate 
him for the price of a new policy. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator said UKI had acted fairly in cancelling Mr Ks policy,  and didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree again saying his account  was up to date. Mr K also said he didnt receive 
the cancellation letter dated  13 September, so UKI shouldnt have cancelled  his policy.  
He has asked for his complaint to be decided  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the case, I agree with 
our investigators findings, and so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN15290022I can see Mr K feels strongly that UKI havent treated him fairly.  Ive considered whats  
happened with Mr Ks policy, and the events leading up to UKIs decision to cancel it. 
The terms of the policy said if a payment was missed UKI would give the policyholder the 
opportunity to make the payment. The terms also explained that if the premium  remained 
unpaid, UKI would cancel the policy by providing  14 days  notice. 
Mr K did fall behind with a number of monthly payments as the direct debits for his monthly  
premium were rejected.  I know  Mr K feels this was an issue with his bank but its Mr Ks 
responsibility to ensure  a direct debit instruction contains the correct  information to be set up 
correctly and so that payment can be made to a creditor on time. I think its fair to say that 
UKI did attempt to collect payment each month but all the direct debit attempts failed. So I 
cant say UKI is responsible for the payments not being made.  
UKI said it sent Mr K three cancellation  letters  in the five months  leading  up to his policy 
being cancelled.  Ive looked  at what happened  for each  of these. After the first cancellation  
letter was sent in July, Mr K contacted  UKI and told it that hed arrange for payment  to be 
made by 23 July to prevent the cancellation of his policy from taking place. But Mr K didnt 
make the payment by 23 July, as hed agreed. The second cancellation letter  was sent in 
August, after which  on 23 August  Mr K did bring  his account up to date. I think UKI acted 
fairly as it gave him the opportunity, despite not making the payment on 23 July, to bring his 
account up to date and to keep the policy active.
But Septembers direct debit payment was rejected. So, a third cancellation letter  was sent 
by UKI, on 13 September. In this Mr K, as before, would have been given notice that his 
policy would be cancelled 14 days later, if payment wasnt made.  UKI said the letter  was 
sent to the same address  as the previous cancellation letters it had sent to Mr K. But Mr K 
said he never received  it. 
I fully appreciate Mr K feels  strongly that he never  received the cancellation letter  dated 13 
September. But UKI has said this letter was sent to the same  address that the previous two 
cancellation letters were  sent to. Its fair to say Mr K received these  letters,  because he 
called UKI to make payments after being  made  aware of the potential  cancellation  explained 
in the letters. On balance I think the letter of 13 September  was sent. I dont think it would be 
fair to hold UKI responsible for this letter not being  received.  
Mr Ks insurance policy terms gave UKI the right to cancel its policy  if Mr K didnt make 
payment on time. And UKI had on two previous occasions looked to take cancellation action 
when Mr K fell behind with his payments.  So, I dont  think UKIs decision to cancel Mr Ks 
policy when this happened a third time was unreasonable
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15290023
Ref: DRN1529002