K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  a loan to him which means  he is going to 
lose money.
background
Mr R says he operated as a self employed  taxi driver. He had taken hire purchase agreements 
in the past which allowed him to hand  back  the car (through voluntary termination - VT) when 
he had reached  the half way point of the agreements. He had taken a hire purchase 
agreement in February 2016. He says that in September 2016 he refinanced  this to a personal 
loan with lower monthly repayments having been asked to come  in for a review in a branch. 
Mr R says he was assured the finance was on a like for like basis and that he could again  
hand the car back. But when he tried to do so in October 2018 he found  out that he could  not 
do this and if he sold the car he would not have enough money  to repay  the loan. 
Our investigator having considered all the evidence and further submissions reached her 
view that the complaint  should not be upheld. She said that:
-There was limited  evidence about  the meeting Mr R had with the member of staff in 
branch. The sale of the loan was not an advised  one. She was considering what  Mr R 
was likely  to have  been told about  the loan and whether  it was mis-sold to him.
-Mr R had explained  that the reason  he had been voluntarily terminating his past hire 
purchase agreements  was that this meant  he did not have  to deal with the higher compliance 
tests of MOTs for taxis which was stressful for him as the repairs  can be severe.
-She had initially thought that this was a reason why hed have been  keen to retain  the 
same benefits if he took a loan. And this made  his account of what  the member of 
branch staff told him a most likely  one. But Bank of Scotland  had said that his mileage 
after taking the loan did not seem  consistent  with him being  a taxi driver  and that it 
wasnt made  aware that this was the use of the vehicle. He had an MOT of the vehicle 
before he complained  and this seemed to have been  straightforward.
-Mr R had not provided evidence to show he was operating his taxi business  after he had 
taken the loan. And nor that he had then stopped operating his business -accounting for 
the reduced mileage.
-She was not able to conclude that he had relied  on a misrepresentation by Bank of Scotland.
Mr R did not agree. He said that he could not prove  when he was and was not working as 
his accounts were annualised. He had become ill and had decided  to retire. He had sought 
assurances from the member of staff at the branch and was told that the terms were  no 
different to hire purchase. He was not told he was forgoing his right to hand  back  the car. He 
recognised this might be an omission but said he was misled  into taking the loan. Branch  
staff asked to see him and the saving of about  £20 per month  in payments compared to the 
hire purchase would not have compensated him for the higher costs  when he wanted to end 
the agreement. He said that he was always going  to hand the vehicle back at the halfway  
point. Whether he was working as a taxi driver or not did not affect  this. He had still 
maintained payments on his loan including during this complaint which showed his integrity.  
Ref: DRN19598962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the personal loan to Mr R was not an advised one which  means that Bank of 
Scotland did not need to make sure that this was a suitable option for him. It was 
responsible for providing him with all the information about the loan itself to allow him to 
make an informed choice.  A tick list was completed  at the time of the sale to say this had 
been done. As our investigator  says there  is limited  evidence about what  happened beyond  
the signed loan agreement. I can also see from an affordability calculation at the time that the 
income recorded for Mr R was based  on his average  pension income. There was no record 
of any self employed income. And I wouldnt have expected  the person dealing  with Mr R to 
have an understanding of his business as this was as I say assessed as a personal loan.
Mr R says in his complaint letter to Bank  of Scotland of 15 November 2018 that:
Part of my responsibility as a taxi driver  is to ensure  my vehicle passes a local authority test 
requiring much  higher standards of compliance  than the usual MoT test for private  vehicles. 
It is for this reason that I and many other drivers  always opt for Hire Purchase agreements 
rather than personal  loans.
So I think Mr R had a good understanding of the relative benefit  to him of a hire purchase  
agreement as hes shown  he had taken these in the past and made use of VT. Mr R says in 
the appendix to his complaint form about  this finance that this was for my car loan which  I 
used as a self-employed taxi driver. And he goes on to say that Bank of Scotland ignored the 
cost implications to a self employed taxi driver. Im afraid I think  given the way that this loan 
was sold a consideration of those costs was fairly  down to him. And that the member of staff 
could not reasonably have known and commented on the impact  say of him using the vehicle 
as a taxi or that settling a loan from the sale of the car compared to the VT of hire purchase 
would have cost Mr R more. It may be Mr R did not realise this himself at the time either.
So I dont  think resolving  whether he was or wasnt using the vehicle as a taxi after 2016 
really helps much here. Mr R has said that the person  in branch was keen to see him as I 
advised him I was considering retirement following some  health issues. The narrow issue is 
whether the member of staff told him that he could  hand back the car as he could with a hire 
purchase agreement.  Mr R says in his complaint letter to Bank  of Scotland that I wanted to 
be able to return the car. That was something that was impossible with a personal loan 
although it could  be repaid early.  The whole basis of his complaint is that he was told it was 
the same  as hire purchase and that he thinks as he was invited into the branch he received 
financial advice. 
While I consider the member of staff could comment on the length of the finance and the 
repayments and say those were  lower I dont think that member  of staff could reasonably be 
expected to compare the impact of the terms of settlement  between  the agreements or give 
advice. Bank  of Scotland has stated that hire purchase agreements were  not sold through 
the branch. I find it unlikely that a statement would have been made that the relevant VT 
term of hire purchase was repeated in a personal loan in the way Mr R says  that was part 
of a fundamental difference between a personal loan and hire purchase. This was clearly  a 
personal loan and VT was not part of the terms of the agreement Mr R accepted. 
Ref: DRN19598963Im thinking  about  what was most  likely and on balance I have insufficient  evidence to find that 
Bank of Scotland made a mistake and so Im afraid I wont  be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959896