K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2006. Mrs M says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs M has said she was told that by taking out the PPI her application would be approved. 
But Barclays  has said that the policy wasnt taken out until nearly  two years after Mrs M first 
took out the credit card. So it seems that Mrs Ms recollection of events may have been 
affected over time  which  is understandable considering this took place over 12 years ago. 
So I need to look at the evidence I have available to me to decide  what I think  is more likely 
to have happened.
Barclays has said the PPI was taken out in a phone  call. It no longer has a record  of the 
call, which  is understandable considering the length  of time that has passed. But it has 
said that it would  have  made the optional nature of the policy  clear.  It has provided a copy 
of an internal record which details the questions that Mrs M was asked and the answers that 
she gave, along with the call script it says would have been used. The questions asked 
included details of Mrs Ms employment and also information about any other means she may 
have had to make her repayments if she wasnt working. The sales script makes it clear that 
Mrs M would have had a choice as to whether she accepted the recommendations. 
So, taking into account what Ive seen and been told, and what we already know about the way 
Barclays sold policies at that time, I think its more likely that Barclays made it clear to Mrs M that 
the policy was optional and she chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt 
want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs M told us that she was working  part time in a job and she was doing  less than 16 hours 
per week  so she believes this made  the policy unsuitable for her. Barclays has said it had a 
conversation with Mrs M and she confirmed  she was in part time employment but that she 
worked for between 17 and 18 hours  per week.  Ive checked the policy terms and conditions 
and I note that cover is provided as long as you are in paid employment of more  than one 
hour per week. So it would appear Mrs M was eligible for the cover, regardless of this 
difference in hours. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong  Ive noted 
Ref: DRN18501392Mrs M wasnt entitled to any sick pay and only had enough savings to pay her outgoings for 
less than three months. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1850139