K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr G bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £277.33 a month towards  Mr Gs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £16.80  a month.  
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a ladle man. He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay through his employer. He did tell us he had employment  cover  that couldve paid 
out for up to six months. Weve asked  Mr G for details about  how this other  cover  worked  
and evidence of it, but Mr G has not responded to our request for further details. So, Ive 
completed my assessment of this case based  on the information available and decided  what 
I think is more likely. Mr G has said he was in good health at the time of sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Gs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Gs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr G about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr G and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN14136792The information Mr G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN14136793The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN14136794-Whether Halifax gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr G know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Gs mortgage  application form which had a separate  section for PPI. 
This section  explicitly said that customers should  consider taking PPI and, if they chose  not 
to, that they understood  the risks of doing so  and to me, the form doesnt appear to set out 
the PPI as compulsory.  Mr G has gone  on to complete all the eligibility  and suitability 
questions on the form  which wouldnt be required if he didnt want  PPI. Mr G has also 
signed the form.
From our experience of how these sales were made in branch,  the documents  signed and 
completed usually  reflected  the discussions that happened during the meeting. 
And Halifax adds it wouldve made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and not added  it to 
his account without his explicit consent.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr G knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says that advice was provided during this sale and Mr G hasnt  said if he agrees. 
Looking at what happened when Halifax sold Mr G the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because from what Ive seen of sales made  in branch during a meeting, the 
sales were usually advised. And Ive got no reason to doubt what Halifax says. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr G. The adviser had information about  some of Mr Gs financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application. But although  I can see a record of the questions  Halifax asked 
Mr G to try and establish whether Mr G had a need for the policy,   I dont think  it did enough 
to ensure the PPI was suitable. I cant for example see that it sought details of his employee 
Ref: DRN14136795benefits or other means  to see if he had alternative  means of making his repayments  if he 
wasnt able to work.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr G given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr G had a need  for the policy  Mr G would not have received any sick pay if he 
was unable to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and 
he hasnt told us about any savings he could fall back on. I understand he had 
employment cover, but without further  details about it, I cant  confirm  that cover  
made the PPI unsuitable. I would add, Mr G says his employment cover wouldve 
paid out for 6 months only,  whereas this policy couldve  paid out for significantly 
longer than that. The PPI policy would have helped Mr G manage the consequences 
if Mr G was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr G. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr G. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Gs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr G be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr Gs circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr G be unable to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr G was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr G was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr G would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr G agreed  to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN14136796Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr G Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr G all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Gs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Gs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr G has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr G? To what extent  did Mr G suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr G. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr G suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr G would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr G, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr G has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr G would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Ref: DRN14136797Mr G says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr G had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Gs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
But the information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, benefit,  limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr G knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told him the exact premium at the point Mr G applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr G would  have  been  told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for over a year,  so if the costs  were significantly at 
odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  he might have raised that with 
Halifax at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr G would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr G would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Gs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
Ref: DRN14136798The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr G pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr G was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr G wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr G hasnt told us about 
any pre-existing medical conditions and he was in permanent employment.  And, in any 
event, this policy didnt  exclude claims arising  out of known  health issues. So, I think  he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr G might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr G 
from taking out the policy,  Mr G, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr G had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Gs circumstances, on balance,  I 
still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr G that any claim he made would be limited  to a 24-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr G would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr G be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr G would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr G was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr G 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN14136799Mr Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr G would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr G 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr G compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr G thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr G, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Gs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr G and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN141367910the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr G in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1413679