K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
Marks & Spencer personal  reserve account.  Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken 
responsibility for this complaint, so Ill just refer to Allianz in my decision.
background
Mrs D opened the account and took out the PPI policy  in 1996. Allianz has told us that the 
policy cost 64p for every £100 owed on the account. If Mrs D had successfully claimed on 
the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid out 15% of the 
account balance  each month  until either Mrs D went back  to work  or the balance was 
cleared. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs D disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz no longer  has a copy of the application  form Mrs D completed when she opened 
the account. I dont  think  thats surprising or unreasonable,  given how long ago this was. 
But its provided a sample of the type of application form in use at the time. Theres  a 
separate section  covering PPI, with a box to tick if the applicant  wanted PPI. So I think  it 
would have been clear to Mrs D that the PPI was optional. And I think its most likely  that 
the PPI was added to her account because  she ticked the box on the application form to 
indicate that she wished to take the cover.  I can understand why she may no longer 
remember this, given  that she opened the account more than 20 years ago.
Allianz didnt advise Mrs D to buy the PPI. This means it didnt need to ensure  that it was 
suitable for her circumstances.  But it needed to give Mrs D enough information  to allow  
her to make an informed decision about  whether  or not to buy the policy.
It could  be that the information  Allianz gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have  been.  But Ive explained that Im satisfied,  on balance, that Mrs D chose to 
take out the policy. So she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even  if shes  
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what shes  told us 
about her circumstances  at the time,  she wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policies main limitations (for example provisions about unusual  working  arrangements,  or 
existing medical conditions) So I dont think better information about them would  have 
affected her decision to take the policy.
Ref: DRN19823002I also accept that Allianz could have explained  the cost and benefits of the policy  more  
clearly. I dont think, for example, that it would necessarily have been clear to Mrs D that 
the premiums  would be added to her account balance, or that she could be charged 
interest on them. However,  Im not convinced that better information about the cost of the 
policy would have put Mrs D of taking it out.
If Mrs D had made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid out until her 
outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid,  or until she went  back to work  
whichever happened first. I think this would  have given her peace of mind,  especially as 
shes told us shed  only have  been entitled to statutory  sick pay from her employer. 
Whats more, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy 
pay Mrs D received.  So she could  have used any payments  from her employer to meet 
other day-to-day expenses at what would have been a stressful time. Taking everything 
into account, I think the PPI could  have been  useful to Mrs D.
I think Mrs D chose to take out the policy. And Im not convinced  that better information 
about it would have made her change her mind.  This means she isnt any worse  off as a 
result of what Allianz did wrong, so I dont think it needs to do anything to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1982300