K821x#15complaint
F is a limited company. It complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold it two interest rate swap 
agreements and hasnt  paid enough compensation.
background
In September  2004 F entered  into an interest rate swap agreement, covering its borrowing 
for a portfolio of properties.  In June 2006, following a restructuring of the lending,  the first 
swap was cancelled and F entered into a new 15-year swap  agreement  for a notional  
amount of £1m. 
Later Lloyds  reviewed the sale of both swaps under its agreement with the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and concluded  the sales  hadnt met the required 
standards. In 2014 the bank offered  to put F in the position it would have been in if it hadnt  
taken any hedging  product. 
F accepted the banks offer  subject to making a further claim for consequential  losses   
and in March 2014 received redress of around £397,000 including  interest.
F then made  its claim  for consequential losses. Lloyds didnt uphold  the claim and made no 
further offer. Unhappy  with the banks  response, F referred its complaint to us.
The company is claiming  for consequential losses which it says were  caused by having  to 
make the swap payments.  In particular it says the payments caused the following:
The sale of a property in July 2011 (completed  in August 2011), which  resulted  in lost 
rental income and lost increase in property value.
The sale of a further property in August  2012  (completed in September 2012), which  
resulted in lost rental income  and lost increase in property value.
Lost management time, loss of business reputation, defamation  and aggravated 
damages.
Individual  losses  suffered by the directors and company secretary.
my provisional decision
I issued provisional  conclusions on this complaint and invited both parties to comment. In 
summary, it was my view that the swap payments caused F to sell the first property sooner 
than it would have  done otherwise, and that Lloyds should therefore compensate F for lost 
rental income. I wasnt minded to order the bank to compensate  F for any other 
consequential losses. I explain my reasons  below.
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  conclusions and made  a number of points which  I 
consider below as part of my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18660032Theres been extensive correspondence  on this case. Id like to assure F and the bank that 
Ive looked at all the arguments and evidence with care.  In this decision Ill concentrate on 
the key arguments and evidence that are material  to my determination of the complaint.
Because the issue of the mis-sales  has already been resolved between the two parties, the 
starting point of my decision is that F shouldnt have  had the swaps.  I wont  be re-opening 
that issue.
consequential losses
I need  to look at whether the banks  failures actually caused the consequential losses.  And if 
they did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do 
this, Id need  to ask whether the bank  could reasonably foresee that its failures  would result  
in losses like these. In other words, Id need  to be satisfied the losses werent too remote  
from the banks  failings.
losses from the sale of the property in July 2011
F would have had more  cash  available if it hadnt had to make  the swap payments. F has 
pointed out that in the summer of 2011, the size of its overdraft was equivalent  to the total it 
had paid out on the swaps.  And they were both of the same order  as the proceeds from the 
property sale. 
I realise F already had liabilities arising from its involvement with an overseas company. In 
2010 F had lent £100,000 to the company  and guaranteed loans by other investors to the 
same company to the sum of £320,000. The overseas company then defaulted on its loans. 
F needed  funds to meet  its liabilities arising from these defaults. But F also had borrowing 
facilities with the bank and its business  was otherwise profitable. And as far as I can tell, F 
also believed at the time that there was a prospect of recovering the losses  made on the 
overseas company. 
On balance, its my view that F would  have been  able to manage its finances in mid-2011 
without selling the property, if it hadnt  had the swaps.
In its own assessment of Fs claim,  Lloyds  said its unlikely  F would have sold the property in 
July 2011 if it hadnt  had the swaps (though the bank went  on to say it hadnt seen sufficient 
evidence to prove the quantification of Fs claim). This supports my view that the burden of 
the swap payments  caused F to decide to sell the property at that time. And Im satisfied that 
it was reasonably foreseeable that swap payments  could cause such  a problem.
But mid-2012, the situation regarding  the overseas company liabilities was different. By the 
end of May 2012,  F had made payments to five lenders in respect of its guarantee liabilities 
and had agreed terms with the other  three. And F was, I believe,  coming  to terms with the 
prospect that it wouldnt be able to recover its losses on the overseas company  losses  
which had already exceeded  £400,000 and were  expected to increase. Those  losses  werent 
caused by the swaps.  Rather,  they owed  their origin  to Fs commitments  to provide and 
underwrite finance for the overseas company. 
Ref: DRN18660033The lending from Lloyds  was also due to expire  in November 2012 and the bank had no 
appetite to renew it. So F would have had to sell the property at that time, even without the 
swaps. It seems  that F had discussions  with another bank about refinancing when the Lloyds 
lending expired. But Ive seen no evidence  of the details of those  discussions,  or of an offer 
of lending. So I dont  think it would be reasonable to base my decision on a finding that F 
would have been able to refinance with another lender  and thereby keep the property. 
In the circumstances in mid-2012, when F had to bear other business losses  which  were  far 
greater than the payments it had made on the swaps, and the expiry of its Lloyds lending  was 
approaching, I think its likely  that F would  have sold the property even if it hadnt had the 
swaps. Its not possible to determine exactly when F would have sold the property, so I have to 
decide what was most  likely to have happened.  I think it would be reasonable to conclude that, 
without the swaps,  F would have  sold the property a year later than it actually did.
In response to my provisional decision,  F said it made the loan to the overseas company 
because it (F) was unable  to invest in UK property  because Lloyds had a lower appetite for 
commercial property lending at that time. But I dont think this has any bearing on whether the 
swaps caused Fs losses. Its clear to me that Fs difficulties with the overseas company 
werent caused by the swaps.
Ive concluded  that the swap payments caused  F to sell the property  in July 2011. I also 
conclude that F would  have sold the property in July 2012, even without the swaps. This 
means the swaps caused F to sell the property  about twelve  months earlier  than it would 
have done otherwise. Compensation should  therefore be based  on the losses  F suffered as 
a result of selling the property 12 months early.  Those should be the lost rental  income and 
any lost capital growth on the property, from July 2011 to July 2012.
Its difficult to tell with any certainty what price  would have  been  achieved in July 2012. But I 
note that average  retail  commercial property prices saw no growth  between  July 2011 and 
July 2012, so its likely the early  sale caused no capital loss. So I dont require Lloyds to pay 
any compensation for capital loss.
F says the annual rent previously received  on the property sold in July 2011  was £17,000. I 
think its fair and reasonable that this should be the compensation for the twelve months  lost 
rent. 
taking account  of the compensatory  interest  already paid
F has already received 8% compensatory  interest on the refunded swap payments. As part 
of the FCA review process, the 8% compensatory interest was to reflect loss of profit or 
interest  in other words, the opportunity  cost of having been deprived of the money 
refunded in the review. In my provisional  decision,  I proposed to reduce the award in this 
complaint to allow for part of this, otherwise F would  be paid twice for the same loss. I 
concluded that the redress for the lost rent should be reduced  by a sum equivalent  to the 
compensatory interest  already paid for the period during which the rent was lost.
Lloyds didnt agree, saying  my proposal introduced a level of complexity  which the 8% 
compensatory interest  was specifically designed to avoid. It said the sum already paid in 
compensatory interest  was greater than the sum of lost rent described  in my provisional 
decision, so no further payment should be due.
Ref: DRN18660034The banks view was that complainants  pursuing  a consequential loss claim with the 
ombudsman service were trying to show their losses exceeded the 8% compensatory  
interest already  paid to them. When successful, they should receive the difference between 
what had already been paid and the value  of their successful claim. When  they successfully 
identified losses that turned  out to be less than the compensatory interest  already  paid,  no 
further payment  should be made.  Lloyds  also said the 8% compensatory  interest  already 
paid bore no relation  to the components of the consequential loss claim  so calculating  a 
deduction (as I had suggested) would not only be double-recovery, but would also be 
contrary to the spirit and normal application of the 8% approach. 
I understand Lloyds  arguments but I dont  agree  with them. In my view, there are cases  in 
which, depending  on the facts, its fair and reasonable  to award redress for specific 
consequential losses in addition to a generic 8% for being deprived of the use of the money 
returned in the basic redress. In particular,  this may be a consideration if a customer  
provides evidence of a specific loss from a single event during the lifetime of the product, 
even if that loss is less than the 8% compensatory  interest already  paid. In my view, this 
applies in the circumstances of the current complaint.
Double-recovery should  be avoided  but that doesnt mean its fair and reasonable for all of 
the 8% interest  paid to be subtracted from the evidenced consequential  losses  in every 
case. It depends on the circumstances.  In Fs case,  I think  the sum to be subtracted from the 
award shouldnt  be all of the compensatory interest already paid on the basic  redress.  Thats 
because the rent losses occurred towards the end of the period covered by the basic 
redress, so there was an earlier period when the customer was deprived of the use of money 
 and I see no reason  to regard the compensation paid for that earlier period as double-
recovery for the lost rent. 
I accept that in the FCA review, the offer of 8% interest as a proxy  for consequential losses 
was intended  to simplify the process. But Im not trying to re-run the FCA review process or 
to interfere with its calculations. Im making  what I regard to be a fair and reasonable 
adjustment to my own determination of the consequential loss complaint, in order to avoid 
double-recovery for a specific component of the customers losses.
F also disagreed with the proposed formulation for redress.  It said Lloyds should pay redress 
for lost rental income from July 2011  up to the date of settlement  of the current  complaint, 
minus the loan interest F saved after the reduction of its debt as a result of the property sale.  
Ive looked carefully  at Fs arguments, which are mostly based on its view that the property 
wouldnt have been sold in July 2012  in the absence of the swaps. For reasons Ive given 
above, Ive concluded that the property would  have been sold in July 2012, so I dont agree 
that the bank should  pay F for the lost rent beyond  that date. 
F also says the lost rent wasnt replaced by the basic redress  and the compensatory  interest 
already paid by the bank. I agree that the basic redress  didnt  replace  the lost rent, which is 
why the core of my decision is that the bank should  make an additional payment to F (for the 
period up to July 2012).  But its still my view that part of the compensatory interest  already 
paid was intended to cover losses  such as this. So I havent changed my mind on the need  
to make a reduction to avoid double-recovery.
For the above reasons, I remain of the view that a fair and reasonable approach to avoiding 
double-recovery would be to subtract  a sum corresponding to the notional component of the 
Ref: DRN186600358% compensatory interest already paid for the company  being  deprived of funds during the 
period of the lost rent. 
losses from the sale of the property in August 2012
As regards  the second property sale, I dont think theres persuasive evidence that the 
swaps caused the sale. 
As in 2011,  F would have had more  cash available in 2012 if it hadnt  had to make the swap 
payments. And again, the amount paid out on the swaps was of the same order  as the 
proceeds of the property  sale.  Ive said above that the swap  payments caused F to sell the 
first property earlier than it would otherwise have done. But I also said that by July 2012,  the 
liabilities arising from the overseas  company,  coupled with the approaching expiry of the 
Lloyds lending, would have meant  that F was likely  to sell at that time even without  the 
swaps.
I think the same factors would have applied to the sale of the second property. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  the decision to sell the property in August 2012 was caused  by 
the swaps. 
other losses claimed
Regarding the other losses claimed,  I havent  seen persuasive evidence that the swaps  
caused F identifiable  financial losses related to management time, business reputation, 
defamation or aggravated damages. And F hasnt identified what  future  tax implications  
there might be for the company. 
We dont usually make awards for the time involved in presenting complaints. Nor would we 
make awards for individual  losses claimed by the directors  and company secretary, as the 
complainant in this case is the limited company.
For these reasons, I dont  require the bank to pay any compensation for these other  losses 
claimed. 
F says that in June  2012 Lloyds knew the FCA had announced the review  of mis-selling of 
interest rate hedging products, but the bank made no allowance  for this in its dealings with F 
until 2014. But I note F has already accepted redress for the swap payments, and the 
subject of the current complaint is the further loss that F suffered as a consequence of 
making those payments.  My aim here is to put F back into the position it would have been in 
if it hadnt had the swaps.  And both the review redress and the award in my decision are 
subject to compensatory interest to account for the time elapsed before  payment. Im 
therefore satisfied  that any losses suffered by F as a result of the banks timing  in its 
dealings with F are covered by the review settlement and by my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank  Plc to pay F the 
following:
A.A sum equivalent  to the loss of rental income  from the first property, for the 
12 months starting in July 2011, at a rate of £17,000 per year,  minus  the 
Ref: DRN18660036compensatory interest  already paid for that specific period (paid  on the basic  redress  
due up to that time).
B.Interest at 8% simple per annum should  be added  to the loss of rental income from 
the date the losses were incurred to the date the bank paid the basic redress  in 2014.
C.Interest at 8% simple per annum should  be added  to A from the date the bank paid 
the basic redress in 2014 to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1866003