K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2009.
Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mr Hs complaint, explaining that Id come to a 
different outcome to our adjudicator.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
Mr H hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H hasnt  responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  by 2 November 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12758432provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2009.  Mr H says 
Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint, they thought it should  be upheld as Mr H told us he 
was self-employed, and this wouldve made it more difficult for him to claim on the policy. 
Capital One responded and provided information that shows  that Mr H told them  he was employed, 
not self-employed at the time he took out his card and PPI. It asked for evidence of his employment 
status.
We asked  Mr H and his representatives to provide further information  about  the discrepancy, but so 
far Mr H has not responded  to this request, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr H case.
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H has said he doesnt  remember much from when  he took out his credit card and PPI, but this isnt 
surprising as it was quite a while ago now.  So the first thing I need to consider I if Capital One gave 
Mr H a choice in taking out the policy, and that he chose to do so  and having done so I think  that it 
did.
Mr H applied for his card and PPI policy  online, and Capital One has shown  that he wouldve  been 
presented given the choice to decline or select PPI before completing his application. Both options  
were equally prominent  and I havent seen anything  to suggest that Capital One did anything 
differently with Mr H. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think he chose to take it out - it looks  like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive also considered what Mr H has told us about being  self-employed at the time. Some   PPI policies 
made it more difficult for a person who was self-employed  to make a claim  and looking at the policy 
terms I can see this is the case for the policy Mr H took out. However,  Capital One has provided us 
with the data that Mr H entered in to his online application  and this shows that he said he was 
employed at the time. 
Because of this discrepancy, Im unable  to safely say that Mr H wouldve  found in more difficult to 
make a claim  so I cant uphold his complaint for this reason.  But should  Mr H wish to provide  more 
information, he can ask me to consider this before I issue my final decision.  
Ref: DRN12758433This means  Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - but these points dont change my decision,  and I 
currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital  One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
I know invite  Capital One (Europe) plc and Mr H to provide anything  else they want  me to consider 
before 27 September  2019. After which Ill issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1275843