K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2007 
alongside a mortgage. Mr P says Santander  UK plc, Alliance and Leicester at the time, 
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 29 May 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the
policy was mis-sold. I also dont think Santander  needs to refund any of the commission 
Mr P paid for the PPI he had with his mortgage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2007 alongside  a 
mortgage. Mr P says Santander UK plc, Alliance and Leicester at the time, mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14663532Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Having done so, I dont  currently think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr P says he doesnt recall having a conversation about the PPI. But based on the evidence Ive seen 
I think  Santander  made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this.
Ive seen a copy of the financial review which  was completed at the time.  This shows that Mr P was 
asked about his existing  financial and employment circumstances and that Santander advised him 
about what products were  suitable for his needs. PPI was one of the products  recommended and this 
document recorded that Mr P accepted this advice, and agreed to take out the PPI cover. Ive also 
seen a copy  of Mr Ps mortgage application  which included a section for PPI with three equally 
prominent options for the policy - and the option for PPI to be added to the account  was selected.  But 
there was also an option to decline the policy if it wasnt wanted.
In addition Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ps mortgage illustration.  This document  clearly states you are 
not obliged to take out any insurance through Alliance and Leicester. So I am satisfied that Mr P 
wouldve known the policy  was optional and he chose to take it out.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, and as explained above, I think Santander  recommended the PPI to 
Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr P says he was suffering from a medical 
condition at the time of sale, and from the evidence hes provided along with what he has told us 
about this Im persuaded that he was suffering from this condition at the time. Having  reviewed  the 
terms of the policy it appears Mr P wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy for this condition. 
But thinking  about what hes told us about his condition  and how it is managed, I think  its unlikely 
Mr P would have thought  this would be the main  reason he might have needed to claim on the policy. 
Especially since he told us he had never had time off for this condition  in this past. So I dont think  
Santander was wrong to recommend that the policy  was suitable  for him.
Based on the above, and everything  Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr P. I say this 
because he wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems 
to have had a need for the cover.
Mr P says he didnt need this cover as he already had life, critical illness and another  accident, 
sickness and unemployment policy in place. He also said he could have sold his car and couldve 
relied on his partner and parents to support him. But help from others cant always  be guaranteed, as 
their circumstances can also change. And Ive thought about what  Mr P has said about  his other 
insurance policies, and Ive looked carefully at the evidence available  from the time of sale.
The financial  review completed at the time Mr P was advised to take out the policy  records Mr Ps 
financial situation at the time.  In this it sets out that Mr P did have a PPI policy in place, but that this 
would be cancelled when he cancelled his existing  mortgage and took out his mortgage  with 
Santander. And there is no suggestion he had any other accident, sickness or unemployment  cover. 
Mr P was also advised  to take out a life and critical illness  policy  and he agreed to this cover.  But 
these insurances wouldve paid out for different eventualities than the PPI  so I dont think these  
policies made  the PPI unsuitable for him. And having the policy in place meant he didnt have to sell 
his assets  to meet  his repayments.
Mr P also told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and had some savings. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any existing means. So these  funds couldve been used for other 
expenses. Mr P was solely responsible for making  his mortgage repayments,  and considering the 
consequences of not making these  payments, I think the PPI provided  him with some additional 
security in the event he was suddenly unable  to work.
Ref: DRN14663533Its possible the information Santander gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Overall I dont think the policy was mis-sold. But Ive also looked  at whether Santander  need to refund 
any of the commission it received from Mr Ps PPI premiums.
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. The FCA said that if a business  
got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI policy  more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium  and it didnt  tell the consumer, then that could  create an unfair  relationship between  the 
parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses  should  pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were  added to the Consumer  Credit  Act 
in 2006  and came into force  on 6 April 2007. For these provisions  to apply to credit agreements  
taken out before this date,  the credit agreement would still need to be running on 6 April 2008 and it 
would still need to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  Act on this date
.
On 31st October  2004  the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were no longer  
covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible  for mortgages taken out before this date to 
become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage  such as a further advance  or interest rate 
switch. Different  lenders took different approaches to this.
As Mr P took out his mortgage in 2007, this means his mortgage was a regulated mortgage and it was 
not covered by the Consumer Credit Act. This means the FCAs rules and guidance dont  apply. So 
Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr P paid for the PPI he had with his 
mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. I also dont think 
Santander needs to refund  any of the commission Mr P paid for the PPI he had with his mortgage.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 29 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1466353