K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms S complain that HSBC  UK Bank Plc increased the interest  rate on their 
mortgage without  telling  them. Mr S and Ms S would  like HSBC  to refund them the additional 
interest they paid.
background
Mr S and Ms S have a mortgage with HSBC which was on a fixed  rate of interest for two 
years. The fixed rate period ended  and the interest rate went  onto HSBCs standard variable  
rate (SVR) from 1 April 2018. Mr S and Ms S say that HSBC didnt tell them about this 
increase until they found out from the increase in the mortgage  payments appearing in their 
bank statement. 
HSBC say that they did inform Mr S and Ms S by letter and through  a message on their 
online bank  facility. Mr S and Ms S say that they cant  understand why HSBC didnt simply 
email them  to remind them that the fixed interest period was ending.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she felt that Mr S 
and Ms S should  have been  aware that the interest rate was going to change.  Mr S and Ms 
S disagreed and asked for a review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Ms S had a buy to let mortgage  on a fixed rate of interest.  It had been  on a fixed 
rate of interest from 2013 and in 2016  Mr S and Ms S fixed their interest rate again for a 
further period  until March  2018. Mr S and Ms S failed  to fix their interest rate at the end of 
that period and so went onto HSBCs SVR.
Mr S and Mrs S feel that HSBC didnt do enough  to remind them that the fixed  interest  
period was coming to an end. But that is something  they should have been  aware  of from 
their own records.  Mr and Mrs S were in the business of operating  a buy to let property, 
They should  have been aware  of the outgoings  including the mortgage payments, They had 
previously been  on a fixed interest rate and renewed it so they should have been aware of 
the implications of not renewing it and should have known when they would  have to renew  it 
again.
HSBC says that in any case it reminded Mr S and Ms S that the fixed rate period was going 
to end by sending a message via their online banking  portal  on 31 December 2017.  HSBC 
says that it wrote again to Mr S and Ms S on 6 January 2018 to say that there were 
important documents  for them to view online. Mr S and Ms S say that they rarely  look at the 
online messaging and that a simple  email alerting them to the ending of the fixed  rate period 
would have brought the issue to their notice. 
HSBC has produced evidence to show that in August 2017 Mr S indicated a preference to 
receive his information  through the online portal.  So, its difficult to criticise HSBC if it 
communicated with Mr S and Ms S through their preferred method. HSBC  also seems  to 
Ref: DRN10979222have written to Mr S and Ms S asking them to read the message  that HSBC  sent.  Mr S and 
Ms S have produced evidence that HSBC did in fact communicate  with them  by ordinary 
email on other occasions.
But given that the primary responsibility for monitoring the term of the mortgage rested with 
Mr S and Ms S and that HSBC sent them reminders  through their preferred  method of 
communication, I cant fairly say that the fault for Mr S and Ms S not renewing  their fixed  
interest period  lay with HSBC. For the above reasons I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1097922