K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  closing her account after an 
incident in a branch. 
background
Ms S says she went  into the branch to withdraw £2,500.  She denies she was abusive  as 
Bank of Scotland has alleged. She wasnt asked for identification  until 40 minutes  had gone 
by and she was asked where she got the money  in her account from despite  it coming  from 
a loan approved  by the Bank of Scotland. She says she was discriminated against.  Ms S 
recorded the incident on video and says it shows she presented her driving licence to the 
manager. She wants Bank of Scotlands policies  and procedures investigated as she doesnt 
think they were carried out correctly.  The branch staff knew  she was a customer. Shes  
unhappy that Bank of Scotland subsequently closed her account.
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that Ms S withdrawal was referred for further 
checks in the branch  as shed recently  changed  her phone number online. The branch staff 
asked Ms S for identification as part of its process. But Ms S refused to give identification 
and became abusive and took a video so the police were called. The service Ms S received 
was professional and in no way discriminatory or racist. As a result and as this wasnt  the 
first time Ms S had been  abusive,  it decided to close her account in 60 days time.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
It isnt for us to determine whether bank of Scotland  has discriminated against Ms S 
or committed a criminal offence.
Ms S request to withdraw the money  triggered a fraud block and the branch staff had 
to get the withdrawal  authorised. It isnt for us to question or investigate  Bank  of 
Scotlands security processes.
The accounts terms and conditions say Bank of Scotland has the right to close an 
account. They say it will write at least two months before it does so explaining its 
decision except in some  circumstances  including if the customer has acted in an 
abusive, threatening or violent way.
Bank of Scotland has dealt with Ms S fairly. Its extended the account closure by 30 
days, confirmed  Ms S is eligible to use the account switching service  and that her 
personal loan will not be affected.  She cant ask it to do anymore.
Ms S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary  she says she 
understands identification is required and has no problem  with that. But she wasnt asked for 
identification for 40 minutes. She questions what constitutes aggressive behaviour. She 
wasnt told her file recorded a previous incident  in 2016. She wasnt  treated in line with 
normal policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10734162Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ms S and Bank of Scotland have provided  extensive evidence about what happened and 
detailed submissions about the complaint. Ive read and considered them  all. But my findings 
are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I think are the main 
issues.
Its not for me to determine  exactly what happened in the branch that day.
But the witness statements from the members of Bank of Scotlands  staff show that they 
found Ms S behaviour,  in their words, intimidating and aggressive. They  refer to her 
shouting, throwing her driving licence  at a member  of staff and causing  chaos  in the branch 
with other  customers complaining about  her behaviour.  They also say Ms S refused to stop 
recording them on her phone. And they say their fraud colleagues on the other end of a call 
advised the branch to terminate the call and adopt  abusive customer procedures.  The police 
were also called.
Ms S disputes what happened,  says she wasnt abusive and questions what amounts to 
aggressive behaviour.  
But the simple  fact is Bank of Scotland is entitled to deal with whichever customers it wants  
to. Here its staff clearly reported Ms S behaviour was abusive and aggressive. And as such  
I think Bank of Scotland acted reasonably by deciding shed been abusive,  threatening or 
violent and that given her history it would close her account as it didnt wish to deal with her 
any further. And I see it gave her 60 days notice of the account closure which  was 
subsequently extended by another 30 days. I think that it acted fairly and in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions.
Its not for me to determine  if Bank  of Scotland  has discriminated  against Ms S or was racist 
as she suggests,  or to consider its security  practices and procedures as she would like.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Ms S strength of feeling and 
frustration, I dont think I can reasonably conclude Bank  of Scotland has done anything 
wrong by closing Ms S account as its done. And I dont see any reason  to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1073416