K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Ms C complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax)   
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr O and Ms C bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1996. They purchased  the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor  from Halifax in one of its branches. The policy  
covered Mr O and Ms C against  accidents, sickness and unemployment. The policy  and 
mortgage ended in January 2003.
Mr O and Ms C say they were told to take the insurance. They think it was mis-sold to them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr O and Ms Cs complaint.  As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr O and Ms Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold  
Mr O and Ms Cs complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the policy 
was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Mr O and Ms C during the meeting and Ive 
not been able to see most of the original sales documentation (such as the agreement  
or application form). So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mr O and Ms C 
were given  a choice or not as to whether they should  have the MPPI policy (or whether 
they were told they had to have it).
Mr O and Ms C say that they were not given an option to have it but Im not aware of any 
known issues  with the way Halifax sold these policies around this time.  Ive also not been 
able to obtain a detailed  recollection of how the meeting  at the time of sale. This is 
understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. So, with this all in mind, I 
cannot fairly  conclude  on this occasion  that the policy  was sold in the way Mr O and Ms C 
say it was. I just havent  seen enough  on this occasion  to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax  has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr O and Ms C during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities  on the business,  I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr O and Ms C, it had to 
ensure during  the sale that the policy was suitable  for Mr O and Ms Cs needs. 
Ref: DRN13974772After reviewing  the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr O and Ms C based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the 
time. Mr O and Ms C say they had very good  sickness  benefits.  Mr O says he had 6 
months sick pay at the time of sale and £10,000  of savings.  Ms C said she also had 6 
months full sick pay. So because  Mr O and Ms C say they had very good  sick pay 
benefits, I have  needed  to look at the policy and see if they would  have still wanted  the 
cover it provided and whether it was suitable  for them.  
I can see the policy would have paid in addition to any provisions (including sick pay) 
Mr O and Ms C would have had. So the benefit would  have been  of use to them  during 
a difficult time as they could have used their provisions to pay for other expenses.  I 
think, on balance,  Mr O and Ms C had at least some need for this cover for any 
extended period of unemployment or sickness over a longer  period than their provisions 
covered (the cover was for longer than 6 months). I also couldnt find any other reason 
such as a significant or limiting term that would  make the policy  unsuitable for them.
Halifax has provided some information  about  the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mr O and Ms C took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover  
and how much  it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mr O and Ms C 
in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were  disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mr O and Ms C would have done  anything  different and decided  against having 
the policy  for the reasons  that I have already given for the policy  being  suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Mr O and Ms C wouldve  been affected  by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold 
Mr O and Ms Cs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr O and Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O and Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397477