K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Skyfire Insurance  Company  Limited wrongly settled claims made  on 
her motor insurance policy against  her following a collision with another  car.
background
Miss D told Skyfire that her car was struck by another  vehicle as she moved from the inside  
lane to the outside lane on a two lane road. She said she had checked carefully before doing 
so. Miss D thought the other driver  was speeding.  He said he was correctly  proceeding in 
the outside lane when  Miss Ds car emerged into his path. 
Miss D found out later that the driver  had made  a personal injury claim, as had a female who 
said she was a passenger in his car. Miss D was also injured. She said there wasnt  a 
passenger in the car. She was very upset that Skyfire paid the claims made  by the other  
parties. And she said Skyfire didnt  tell her about  the phantom  passenger  from the start.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Ds complaint. She thought  Skyfire  had acted 
reasonably. She said it had taken into account  Miss Ds version of events as well as the 
evidence provided  by the other parties. She said it had concluded that Miss D was making a 
manoeuvre and that there was nothing to show the other driver was speeding. In addition,  
there was video footage of Miss D accepting  blame for the collision  at the scene.  
The investigator didnt  accept Miss Ds view that Skyfire hadnt kept her informed about its 
intentions. And she said as it had settled the claim without admitting liability,  Miss D could  
still make  a claim against the other  driver. She said it had also explained to Miss D that if she 
wanted to defend the passengers personal injury  claim (on the basis  that she wasnt in the 
car) Miss D would have to attend court.  The investigator accepted  that Sky fire hadnt  told 
Miss D that the claim had been settled and closed. She said it would have been better 
customer service  to do that, but Miss D knew what was going  to happen anyway.
Miss D said shed been under informed about the passengers personal injury  claim. She 
said that without  her medical details, she couldnt decide whether to attend court.  She said 
she didnt even know about the drivers personal injury  claim until four months  after the 
accident. She said Skyfires poor communication had caused her great upset. And it had 
paid a fraudulent  personal injury claim, thereby increasing her future premiums. Miss D said 
she wanted her complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen on the file, I think Skyfire took all the available  evidence  into account 
before deciding to accept  the claim made by the other driver. I think Skyfires advisors tried 
hard to ensure that Miss D understood why it had no option  other  than to accept the other 
drivers version of events. In my opinion,  Skyfire acted reasonably.
I think there was a good deal of confusion about when Skyfire was told about  the personal  
injury claims and when it passed  that information  on to Miss D. Recently, we asked Skyfire  
to clarify the matter.  It said it was told about  them on 20 September 2018  and sent a letter  to 
Miss D the same  day. The letters on the file and says that a claim has been received from 
Ref: DRN10407812the driver  and / or the passenger. I can see why Miss D was confused,  as during a call that 
day, one of Skyfires  advisors told Miss D that there  was a claim from the driver only. It says 
a senior advisor  spoke  to Miss D about the passengers  claim on 18 October 2018. 
Elsewhere, Skyfire  said an advisor  spoke to Miss D about it on 10 October  2018,  although  
Miss D had refused  to deal with that advisor again before that date.
I dont think the confusion on this issue made any difference to the outcome. Miss D 
accepted that there was a collision.  She was injured  herself, so it wasnt  surprising that the 
other driver also said he was injured. He provided  medical evidence  to support his claim.  I 
know Miss D believes  there was no-one  else in the car, but she cant prove thats the case. 
The passenger also provided medical  evidence. Faced with that, the only way to defend  the 
passengers claim was for Miss D to agree to attend court. She didnt agree to do so.
I think Skyfire  tried to explain to Miss D that should she attend  court  it would be a matter of 
her persuading the court that the other  passenger wasnt present. It wasnt about  debating  
the medical evidence.  Miss D insisted she had to see it, but I dont  think  it was relevant to 
her part in defending the claim. I dont  think Skyfire blocked Miss D from challenging the 
passengers personal  injury claim.  In the end, as Miss D hadnt agreed to attend  court,  I think 
it was reasonable  for it to settle  the claim and thereby limit further costs. 
I understand why Miss D is upset about  the outcome of the claim. The accident was 
traumatic for her and she has ongoing  pain from her injuries. Miss D is convinced  she wasnt  
at fault and that there wasnt a passenger in the car. But Skyfire had to consider what could 
be proven in court and what the likely  outcome of defending the claims would be. Given the 
available evidence I think it was reasonable for Skyfire to make the decisions it did. 
I think Skyfire  made a reasonable effort to keep  Miss D informed  of what  was happening. I 
can see she chased it for updates at times, and it didnt tell her when it closed  the claims. 
But overall I think its communication with Miss D was reasonable. 
As I dont think Skyfire acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Miss Ds complaint.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before
28 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1040781