K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold an income  protection policy  by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
background
Mr F took out an income protection policy with Barclays in September 2011. The policy  
provided cover if he was unable to work  due to an accident or sickness,  or involuntary  
unemployment, after a deferred period of 30 days.  The policy was cancelled  by Barclays in 
January 2018  as Mr F failed to pay his monthly premium, despite  reminders  being  sent to 
him. 
In February 2018  Mr F made a complaint to Barclays that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mr F believes the policy was mis-sold  as he says he was told he needed to agree to take out 
the policy for his mortgage application to be successful. And he says the policy  was 
unsuitable for him as he is self-employed. Barclays didnt agree the policy  was mis-sold as 
the documentation issued to Mr F with his policy, made it clear the cover was optional. 
Barclays also said Mr F was told to review the policy documentation sent to him in 
September 2011 to ensure the cover  was suitable for him. And he was sent annual review 
letters each  year which advised him to check the policy and ensure it was still suitable  for 
him. So Barclays didnt  uphold his complaint.
Mr F then complained to this service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt think 
there was any evidence that the policy was mis-sold to Mr F, as it covered the self-employed  
and hed been provided with annual reviews to enable him to check  the policy was still 
suitable for him. So our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr F was unhappy with our investigators  opinion so the case  has come to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F applied  for his income protection policy after a meeting with Barclays in September 
2011. Following  the meeting Barclays wrote to Mr F on 10 September  2011 and the letter  
enclosed the following  documents:
Application Summary
Statement of Price
Statement of Demands and Needs
Guide to Insurance
The documentation  enclosed with the letter summarised Mr Fs insurance application, 
confirmed the cost of the insurance,  confirmed  the recommendations made by Barclays, 
provided details  of the key features of the policy and included  a sample policy.  Mr F was told 
it was important to read and check all the documentation within  the 30 day cooling off period, 
and in the future, to ensure the insurance  was suitable for him. 
The application summary stated the policy would run until Mr F retired or the policy was 
cancelled. Its clearly  stated that Mr F is self-employed. The statement of needs says 
Barclays recommended  accident and sickness and involuntary unemployment cover to 
Ref: DRN14751202protect his monthly  commitments.  Mr Fs self-employed  status is recorded by Barclays  and 
even though hed have  to meet  different  criteria for a claim to be accepted  than an employee 
would, he was still covered by the policy.  So I dont think Mr Fs self-employment meant the 
policy was unsuitable  for him.
The opening  paragraph  of the letter  sent to Mr F in September 2011states the policy  is 
optional and not a condition of buying  any other Barclays product. And this is also set out in 
the statement  of demands and needs  under the heading IMPORTANT INFORMATION. So 
while I havent disregarded what Mr F has said the advisor told him in branch, this is 
completely at odds  with the documentation he was sent, after the meeting. This makes it 
quite clear that taking  out the policy was optional.
On 13 September  2011 Mr F was advised  his application had been accepted and was sent 
his policy  document  and schedule. Mr F took no steps to cancel the policy and continued to 
pay the premium, by monthly  direct debit, until January  2018.
Barclays have told us that Mr F was sent an annual review letter  every  year until the policy 
was cancelled. That letter  provided details of Mr Fs cover including  the premium  hed paid in 
the last year and the benefit  payable  to him after the deferred period. The second  paragraph 
of the letter,  under the heading  Things you should know about  your Optional Short-term  
Income Protection states You can cancel your policy at any time. So Barclays sent Mr F an 
annual summary of the cover he held with them which details the cost of the cover, the 
benefit payable  and reminded Mr F he could cancel the policy at any time.  And his full 
cancellation rights  are set out near the bottom  of page one of the letter, under the heading  
Cancellation Rights. 
I think Mr F was provided with full details  of the cover he held with Barclays  to enable  him to 
decide if the cover was still suitable. Mr F has told us he didnt open the letters sent by 
Barclays and hes said he can provide the unopened  letters  as evidence of this. But I cant  
hold Barclays responsible for Mr Fs failure  to open the correspondence they sent him. 
So Im satisfied on the available evidence that Barclays kept Mr F updated about the cover 
he held with them, and at all stages gave him enough information  to enable  him to consider 
if the policy was suitable for him. So I dont  think Barclays mis-sold the policy  and I wont  be 
asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set our above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN14751203Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1475120