K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) turned down his application for a new credit 
card after it told him it had been  approved.  
Hed like to be compensated for the loss hes incurred as a result of not being  able to take 
advantage of the interest free balance transfer  period. 
background
Mr R applied to open a new card with MBNA. He wanted to transfer an existing balance  to 
the new card as there was a promotional offer of an interest free balance  transfer for 18 
months.
Mr Rs unhappy MBNA  told him on the telephone that his application had been approved  
but was later told, following  secondary  checks, that the application  had been  turned down. 
MBNA said this was due to information from his credit file about the credit facilities  he 
already had.
Mr R told us about another application he made with a different lender around the same 
time. He says that he cancelled it as a result  of being told by MBNAs representative that the 
credit card had been approved. When Mr R tried to re-apply for the credit card with the 
different lender, his second application  was also turned down.  Mr R feels this is because of 
MBNA declining his application.
MBNA acknowledged that its representative should  have told him the application  would be 
subject to a secondary  review and offered £50 compensation to reflect this. Mr R still felt that 
hed lost out and incurred  further costs, so he asked  us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged an error had happened and 
said she could understand Mr Rs frustrations with the situation but she felt MBNAs offer 
was fair and reasonable. She also explained  that its a matter  of commercial judgement for 
MBNA to accept or reject an application and that there wasnt enough evidence to show the 
second credit card application  with the different lender was declined  due to any error made  
by MBNA.
Mr R didnt accept this view. He felt it was unfair of MBNA to decline his application as it had 
told him the credit card had been  approved.  And because of that error he was no longer 
able to get the credit card with another  lender  and has incurred costs due to not being able 
to benefit from the interest free balance transfer.  He asked for an ombudsman to consider  
the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I can understand  Mr Rs frustration with the situation. Hes told us he had made another 
application with a different lender at the time which he cancelled on being told by MBNAs 
representative the card had been approved  as MBNA was offering interest free balance  
transfers for 18 months which was for longer  than the other lender who was offering 15 
months. 
Ref: DRN12546802Mr Rs comments  to us suggest his initial application for the credit card with the different 
lender had been accepted. He was unfortunately unable to obtain  information to show this 
from the lender,  and having seen a copy of his credit report, Ive also not seen anything that 
indicates the other application had been  fully accepted by that lender. This means, I cant 
safely say Mr Rs initial application had been accepted by the different lender or that he has 
missed out on the 15 months balance transfer.       
MBNA accepts Mr R was told its credit card was approved and that its representative didnt  
tell him that it would go through a secondary review. To recognise this, MBNA paid Mr R 
£50 compensation.  
After listening to a call between Mr R and a representative from MBNA  in July 2018,  the 
representative explained that on its second check, having reviewed Mr Rs credit file, due to 
what was outstanding; it had made the decision to turn down the credit card application.       
I appreciate this must have been  disappointing  for Mr R but ultimately whether MBNA offers 
a product or not is a commercial decision its entitled  to take and not one we would normally  
interfere with. But from what Ive seen I think MBNA  did a proper assessment of Mr Rs 
application in order to reach its decision to decline his application.
When considering  what Mr Rs told us about  his application with the other  lender the 
second time around, I havent been  provided  with enough persuasive evidence to show that 
this credit card application was turned  down  as a direct result  of any error  made  by MBNA. 
Because of this, when considering the error in the service Mr R received  in not being  told 
about the secondary review and his disappointment with the matter, I think  MBNAs 
payment of £50 compensation  to recognise this is fair in the circumstances  and I make  no 
further award.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Staci Rowland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254680