K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr S payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  started in 2003  and which  
covered a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  16 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened about  so long ago 
when the sale took place.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive considered carefully Mr Ss comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned  in the documents at the time, and 
that it would  have been presented as a choice. And I dont have  strong evidence  to show 
that Bank of Scotland didnt make clear the PPI was optional;  or that it didnt  ensure  that 
Mr S freely chose to take it. Without stronger  evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say 
that Bank of Scotland acted wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr S, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr S received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when he would  need  to fall back on his savings. This all would have 
put Mr S in a more  secure  position,  if hed eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest he couldnt afford 
the PPI when he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially  useful.  
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr S took the PPI.
Ref: DRN12446782Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr S would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely he was 
eligible for the policy, and hed be paying for it monthly, so he could cancel it at any time 
without further  cost if his situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  10 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1244678