K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss B bought  the policy  in 2002  at the same time as she took out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint because I dont think FICL  gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because the policy wouldnt pay disability benefit in 
connection with pre-existing medical conditions. I think this would have mattered to Miss B 
because she had medical conditions which wouldnt have been  covered. So she couldnt 
have claimed on the policy for everything she expected to be covered.
Ive considered the nature of Miss Bs conditions and the fact that they are ongoing and at 
least one of them is life-long. With that in mind, I dont think  Miss B would have bought the 
PPI if shed had enough information about  the policy.  So, I think Miss B has lost out because  
of what the business did wrong. 
what the business should  do to put things right
FICL should put Miss B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss B would  have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss B owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what  she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Miss B would have owed  
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
Ref: DRN16857862C.If  when FICL works out what Miss B would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
B paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL  should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss B paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss B 
would have owed  FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL  should tell Miss B what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss B that relates  to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Miss B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Financial  Insurance Company Limited to 
pay compensation to Miss B in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1685786