K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains TSB Bank plc is holding him liable for an unauthorised transaction.
background
Mr S complained to TSB in 2014  about a chip and PIN transaction  on his account for £99.30  
which he says he did not make or authorise.  The payment was for petrol at a supermarket  
although Mr S says it was for a mobile  phone contract taken out by a fraudster in his name.   
Who the payment was to is relevant and I will consider that further in my findings.
In any event, Mr S says he spoke to TSB about this payment and as far as he was 
concerned, a few months later, the matter  was resolved with TSB accepting that he was not 
liable.
However, recently, Mr S has tried to apply for a mortgage and has discovered a default on 
his credit file  relating to this very transaction.  Except the amount recorded  on the default is 
£444.89.  
He complained to TSB about this because he said it had agreed  in 2014 that Mr S was not 
liable for the transaction.
TSB told him that its records say nothing of the sorts.  The transaction  left an outstanding 
debt on the account which increased with interest and charges.  It had written to Mr S at the 
time to advise that a default would  be recorded  if the debt was not settled.  Mr S had not 
responded so the default was duly recorded.   It said it was not going to remove  the default 
nor confirm, in the circumstances,  that Mr S was not liable.
When Mr S brought his complaint  to this service, our investigator explained that she would 
not be asking  TSB to do anymore  so Mr S made  further submissions and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I do not 
think asking TSB to remove this default from Mr Ss credit file would  be a fair outcome.
Mr S has told this service that the disputed transaction relates to a mobile phone contract  
not petrol from a supermarket.  But the statement clearly  shows  it was the latter.  Thats  
relevant because if Mr S is adamant  that he complained about a phone  contract  being  taken  
out in his name, then this is not that complaint and so, his recollection is possibly not as 
reliable as it might otherwise have been.
TSB records show that at the time of making  the complaint, Mr S said he had kept his card 
and PIN together  and thats how the transaction  was possible because both items had 
been stolen.  TSB said that was a breach of the terms  and conditions  of his account and so it 
was holding him liable.  I dont  think that is an unreasonable stance for TSB to take in the 
circumstances.
However, Mr S told this service  that the two items  were not together  and neither did he tell 
TSB that they were.  He  also says that he misplaced his card and it hadnt been stolen. 
Taking into account the concerns I have  about  Mr Ss recollection of events, Ive considered 
Ref: DRN11210562whether the position would be any different if Mr Ss card and pin were not together  like he 
says.
Having done so, I dont think I would be minded to uphold this complaint in those 
circumstances either.
TSB is entitled to hold Mr S liable for this transaction if the evidence  suggests its more likely 
than not that he carried  it out or authorised it.  The relevant rules say that TSB needs to 
show the payment  was authenticated (in this instance the chip being  read from the card and 
the PIN being  entered) and that Mr S consented  to the payments.
For the following  reasons,  I am satisfied that TSB has been  fair and reasonable in its 
response to Mr Ss complaint:
-If, as Mr S says, his card and pin were not together when he lost his card, Ive 
thought about how a fraudster would know his PIN in order  to use it.  Mr S had not 
used his card and PIN before,  so there  was no opportunity for someone  to shoulder 
surf him, follow him and take and use his card.  Mr  S told us that the PIN was stored  
on his phone so Ive also thought about  how someone might  have  accessed  it from 
there.  Again, Mr S says no one had access to his phone so its unlikely the PIN was 
compromised that way.  Taking  into account  the inconsistency of what  Mr S told TSB 
and then this service, Im not satisfied that Mr Ss account  of events is plausible or 
credible;
-an unusual credit of £2 was made into the account the day before the disputed 
transaction.  The disputed transaction was then carried out a supermarkets pay at 
pump.  These transactions  often pre-authorise a payment  of £1 or £2 before the 
actual payment for petrol to ensure  the user has money to pay.  Mr  S says he doesnt  
recognise the payment into the account   so it would seem  he is suggesting a 
fraudster made  the payment in order to carry out the fraudulent transaction  at the 
petrol station.  I dont think thats  plausible or credible;
Mr S has also queried why TSB allowed the payment  to be made from his account  as there 
were insufficient funds.  Our investigator has referred him to the relevant section of the terms 
and conditions of his account  which state  that any attempt to use the card in these 
circumstances will be taken as a request for an unplanned overdraft or for an increase in an 
existing overdraft.  So, I cant see TSB has done  anything unfair  in allowing the payment to 
go through as it has acted  in accordance with its terms and conditions.
I have also considered the notices which were sent to Mr S reminding him of the outstanding 
debt and the actions which TSB would take if the debt was not satisfied.  I am satisfied that 
he was on notice of the default  marker being entered.  In the circumstances, as I think  he is 
fairly being held liable for the transaction, I will not be asking TSB to remove the marker.
In summary,  I have seen  nothing which leads me to conclude that TSB has acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably  and so I will not be asking  that it does anymore.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ref: DRN11210563ombudsman
Ref: DRN1121056