K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the amount that hes been charged by Marsh Finance & Commercial  
Limited for damage to a car that he returned  when he voluntarily terminated his hire 
purchase agreement.  Hes being  helped  with his complaint by his representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance that 
he signed in September 2015. He voluntarily terminated his agreement in June  2018  and 
returned the car. The car was inspected  by a third party  on behalf of Marsh  Finance. The 
inspection report identified damage  to the car with a repair cost of £609 which Mr D was 
asked to pay. He complained to Marsh  Finance  which  upheld  his complaint and reduced the 
charge for damage to £182.70. But Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response and complained  
to this service. He says that he asked to exercise his contractual  and statutory right to have 
the car independently inspected at his expense   but Marsh  Finance has refused and has 
disposed of the car at auction.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Marsh 
Finance had provided photos of damage to the car which showed two dents on the front of 
the car, a dent on the side and scratches  by the light. And she thought that the damage  was 
more than fair wear  and tear. So she thought that the charge of £182.70 was reasonable to 
cover the costs. And Marsh Finance had said that another report  couldnt be obtained as the 
car has been sold.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was inspected by a third party  on behalf  of Marsh Finance - in June 2018 after 
Mr D had voluntarily terminated  his agreement. The inspection  report  was signed by Mr D 
but it was noted  that he disputed it and that he said that the dents to the bonnet and the roof 
rail were then when the contract was signed. The report identified  damage to the car with a 
repair cost of £609. Mr D complained to Marsh Finance about the charges the following 
month. It reviewed the photos of the damage and concluded  that some  of the damage 
charges werent  justifiable - so it removed those charges which  reduced  the damage  charge 
to £182.70.
Ive reviewed the photos too  and I consider  that some of the damage  shown in the photos 
is more than fair wear  and tear (as thats defined in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association guidelines on fair wear and tear). Marsh  Finance has reduced  the damage 
charge from £609  to £182.70. And I consider that the charge of £182.70 is fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances. 
The car was sold at auction  before Mr D had complained  to Marsh Finance - so its not 
possible for the car to be inspected. Im not persuaded that Mr D has a contractual or 
statutory right to have the car independently inspected. And I dont consider that Marsh 
Finance acted incorrectly in selling the car.
Ref: DRN14433072So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  Marsh  
Finance to further reduce  or waive the damage charge  or to take any other action in 
response to Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1443307