K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard)  
regarding his credit  card account.  He feels that he was persuaded to keep  his card open, 
resulting in his large debt, and that when he later called to advise that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties he was not given appropriate  advice and help. He also is concerned  that 
Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to him and increased  his credit limit without checking that it 
would be affordable. Finally he feels that his complaint to the business was not properly 
reported so he had to sped further time repeating  his complaint. Mr A wants  to be 
compensated for his distress and inconvenience. 
background
Mr A has held a Barclaycard for some  time.  
In November 2016, Mr A had cleared  his Barclaycard balance and called Barclaycard to 
close his account.  He spoke with an agent  who advised that there was a small  balance  left 
on the card from a subscription payment. Mr A was transferred  to a colleague who waived  
this balance as a goodwill gesture and then he spoke with the original agent again. The 
agent gave Mr A information on offers  on his card and Mr A elected one offer with a balance 
transfer to continue the account. Mr A asked  if his credit limit could be reduced to £2500.  
Later that day Mr A transferred a balance of approximately £400  to the card and his credit  
limit was reduced. 
Mr A then contacted Barclaycard again  in November 2018 and advised that he was 
struggling to meet his repayments. At that time,  his credit  limit and balance  was around 
£4500. 
 He spoke with a representative and explained  that, whilst he had been meeting his 
payments to date, he did not anticipate being able to do so for much longer. 
The agent  began discussing  a repayment plan and cancelled Mr As direct debit for his 
minimum payment, which was due 5 days later.  
As the discussion progressed it became clear that a payment plan would be reported  on Mr 
As credit file. 
Mr A decided that this was not appropriate for him as he did not want any adverse 
information reported on his credit file. 
The adviser explained that she had cancelled the direct debit and was unable to reinstate it, 
so Mr A would have to set this back up to ensure he made his payments. She said that this 
needed to be done with his bank. The agent  explained that the payment was due 5 days  
later but described  this as ample time to make  his payment. 
Mr A complained to Barclaycard shortly  after this. He advised  that he had visited his bank to 
set up the direct debit  again and had been told that this needed to be done  by Barclaycard 
so he had wasted  his time. During this conversation it became clear that Mr A would not 
have time to reinstate a direct debit for that months  payment so would have to make  a 
manual payment for that month. Mr A asked for his call recordings and complained that he 
had been pressured to keep his account  open  two years previously.
Ref: DRN10350852The agent  escalated  the complaint to he complaints team and made notes on Mr As 
complaint. He explained that he was not aware  how to send call recordings to Mr A but 
would include this in the complaint issues.
Mr A then spoke to another agent  who looked  at his complaints. Not all of the issues Mr A 
had raised during his earlier call were  noted  so Mr A had to repeat these issues.  During this 
call the agent  indicated that if the interest  on the account was the problem then she could 
refer him to a team to look at whether any lower rates could  be applied. 
The agent  apologised that this had not been  proposed sooner and offered to refund one 
months interest for his inconvenience.  
Mr A wanted  his complaint to be formally resolved. 
Barclaycard sent Mr A its final response  letter in November 2018. This did not uphold Mr As 
complaint fully but acknowledged that he had had his direct debit cancelled  prematurely and 
had been given wrong information about  setting  this back up. It therefore offered him £100  
for his inconvenience, £20 to reflect his wasted travel to his bank and £25 for his time (in 
addition to the refund of interest  worth approximately £60). 
Mr A was not satisfied  with this response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint and set out her view to the parties.  
This was that she agreed there had been some  service  failings  but felt that Barclaycards 
offer was adequate. 
Mr A did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  listened to the available calls to consider whether Mr A was pressured 
into keeping his account open, and how his complaint was presented to the call handler.
I understand that Mr A found  this entire  situation frustrating, since  he had been in a position 
where he had lower debt and was able to close his credit card, but then had kept the card 
open and had ended up building up a debt which he was finding difficult  to manage.  
I do, however,  arrive at the same view as our adjudicator.
In relation to the November 2016  call, I agree that Mr A was persuaded to keep the card 
open by the available  offers which were  better  value for him that his balance  elsewhere. I do 
not, however think that he was pressured into keeping the card open or transferring another 
balance to the card. Mr As balance was transferred later, after the call and after Mr A had 
agreed to hear offers on the card and had enquired  if any other offers were available. He 
had also chosen  the offer which applied to the card. 
Mr A feels  that the limit was excessive given that he was struggling  to meet his payments, 
and had on occasion exceeded  his limit by a subscription payment. The evidence  provided 
Ref: DRN10350853by Barclaycard demonstrates that Mr As account appeared to be well run and managed with 
very few issues. It also demonstrates that the limit changes were requested by Mr A. 
I do not think that Barclaycard failed in relation to these issues. 
I accept that, during  the initial call where Mr A broached his difficulties,  the conversation was 
channelled towards a payment plan, and the direct debit cancelled before Mr A had heard all 
information relevant  to his choice. This did result in Mr A having to take action  to make the 
months payment,  and he was wrongly  advised  that this needed  to be with his bank, rather  
than with Barclaycard.  
I agree  this would have  been frustrating, but the agent did make clear the timescales 
involved and that Mr A needed  to reinstate the payment  for that month in order  to avoid any 
negative information.  
I therefore think that Mr A was caused some inconvenience  by this but that it was limited to 
the wasted time and journey contacting his bank  rather than another  area of Barclaycard. 
Finally, Mr A complained  about the way his complaint was handled, in that not all areas  of 
the complaint  were  noted by the first agent  Mr A complained to. I agree that this was 
inadequate and would  have been  frustrating, but I again think the impact  of this was limited 
as Mr A was able to discuss  all elements of his complaint  and he received a full response  to 
his complaint. 
For these reasons, I agree with the adjudicator that Barclaycard failed  in some areas of its 
service, but that its offer of £145 plus the waiver of a months interest in order to reflect  these 
issues is adequate  to reflect the failings.  
I think that this sum is in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances  so I do 
not ask Barclaycard to do anything further.
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr A but I hope  my reasons  make clear why I have  
reached this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1035085