K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the advice he received in February 2015 from Integral Financial 
Advice Limited (referred to from now on as Integral) to transfer of the value of his deferred  
pension benefits  from a public sector occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Qualifying  
Recognised Overseas Pension  Scheme (QROPS) arrangement. Mr L is unhappy that having 
transferred out of the OPS to a Personal  Pension  Plan (PPP) he has not managed to 
subsequently transfer to a QROPS. Mr L is also unhappy his funds were not invested for 
some time.
Mr L has complained  that he paid a fee of about £5,000 to arrange the transfer to a QROPS.       
Mr L states he was badly advised, overcharged  and the new pension plan has shown  no 
growth since inception.    
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my Provisional Decision issued on               
4 November 2019. A copy of this document is attached to, and forms part of this my Final  
Decision.
Briefly :
In January 2015 Mr L approached Integral to discuss what to do with the value of his public 
sector OPS benefits,  as he was planning to emigrate and had accepted a job that was due to 
start in summer 2015. Mr L had received a transfer value quote in lieu of his deferred 
pension benefits  of around  £140,000. This was not guaranteed. 
Mr L was advised  by Integral to transfer the value of his OPS benefits to an overseas 
QROPS arrangement. At this time the Draft Overseas Pensions  Scheme (Miscellaneous)  
Regulation 2015 had been published (on 17 December 2014). This set out that from April 
2015 the definition of a scheme that could be classed as a QROPS would change.
Following the proposed  change in legislation any overseas pension scheme permitting the 
payment of benefits  earlier  than age 55 would no longer be deemed to be a qualifying 
scheme and such payments would be subject to UK taxation.
This had raised  concerns  within the industry that the number of QROPS available  would 
reduce significantly  after April 2015. The finalised rules were laid before Parliament on       
13 March 2015.  Mr L met the business  whilst the proposed changes to the QROPS  rules 
were being  considered.
At about the same time the UK government had announced that after 6 April 2015 transfers 
out of unfunded UK public  sector pension schemes would no longer  be allowed. This meant 
that if Mr Ls proposed  transfer was to go ahead  it would  have to be completed  before 6 April 
2015.
Integral obtained  details  of Mr Ls deferred  benefits  which allowed for benefits  that he had 
transferred in from another public sector pension scheme.  Mr L had accrued pension  
benefits in respect  of over 16 years service.  Mr L had already opted out of the OPS  in order 
to save the monthly  contributions that were payable. Integral stated that it would have 
recommended he remain  in the OPS.
Ref: DRN19907052On 5 February 2015 Integral sent Mr L a copy of a Pension Transfer Analysis Report.  This 
showed the critical yield was 8.82%. This meant  that based on the assumptions used the 
transfer value  offered  would have to grow  in a UK based pension  arrangement  at a rate of 
8.82% per annum to provide a fund at retirement that was equal  to the value of the OPS 
benefits given  up. The business  stated this critical yield would have been  too high to 
recommend a transfer from the OPS to a PPP in the UK.  
Integral noted  that Mr L was emigrating permanently and was not intending to return  to the 
UK and the benefits payable on retirement  on various assumptions looked higher  if the 
transfer overseas  went ahead. This was because of the different treatment of retirement 
funds in the two countries.
If the transfer went ahead Integral agreed  to reduce its fee to 3.5% of the amount 
transferred. On the transfer value offered this was just under £5,000. The fee due to Integral 
was taken from the transfer  value when the OPS  benefits were transferred into the PPP.
If a transfer was made to an overseas arrangement and it later turned out the scheme did 
not qualify as a QROPS  the member would  have to pay tax of at least  40% of the value of 
the fund. As a temporary  measure  the funds were  therefore transferred out of the OPS into a 
PPP before 6 April 2015. The transfer  value was then placed in a cash fund whilst Mr L 
awaited advice  from the business on where  to invest his transfer  value.
The PPP had to be transferred to a QROPS arrangement within  six months of Mr L moving 
overseas for it to avoid any tax. 
Mr L was put in touch  with an adviser overseas who could assist  and they believed  that the 
proposed changes to the QROPS rules would  be sufficient to obtain  UK Inland Revenue  
approval but it was not certain that this would happen.
It was clear from these rules that the majority of QROPS arrangements  would not be able to 
continue after 6 April 2015  as they didnt  meet  the minimum age requirement  unless
they altered their rules (which would  take time). The issue was that many QROPS allowed 
benefits to be taken early  in some conditions (such as severe financial hardship) which  
wouldnt meet HMRCs  requirements. 
As his funds  were not transferred to a QROPS  arrangement Mr L complained to Integral 
about the advice that he had received. This complaint  was rejected by Integral and then 
referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service in February 2017. The complaint was 
investigated by an adjudicator who stated  that she was minded to uphold the complaint as 
she believed  that the advice to transfer  was inappropriate and she set out a method of 
determining redress.
As Integral did not agree with the adjudicator  the complaint has been referred to me for a 
decision.
In my provisional decision (a copy of which is attached) I set out the reasons why I was 
minded to uphold  this complaint.
Mr L accepted  the provisional decision but the business did not. 
On 23 November 2019 the business rejected the provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN19907053It argued that the intention was for the transfer value to remain invested in cash  for a short  
time. The PPP would then be transferred to a QROPS when Mr L emigrated. The investment  
fund choice for the QROPS would be provided  by the Australian adviser. However  due to the 
review of QROPS arrangements the business  states  that the adviser did offer to discuss the 
option of switching the fund into other  assets in the PPP but this offer was not taken  up by 
Mr L.
The business set out in its response  that Australian  Superannuation  has strict rules on taking 
benefits before age 55 and that the view at the time was that QROPS in Australia would 
continue after 6 April 2015.
HMRC only issued a letter  to QROPS on 17 April 2015 which was after the advice  to transfer 
had been given to Mr L. HMRCs view was QROPS status could not be given as there was a 
facility to allow members to access funds before age 55 in the case of severe financial 
hardship.
The business set out that the recommendation to transfer to a PPP was made whilst Mr L 
was still in the UK and before the ban on transfers  out of public sector  schemes came into 
force on 6 April 2015.
It was only on 1 July 2015 that the QROPS  list withdrew most Australian schemes. It was 
only then that the subsequent transfer for Mr L could not be arranged.
The business also argued that whilst the critical yield in the UK was such that the advice 
would have been not to transfer, in Australia  the situation was different.
The business stated  that it carried out a comparison of what  could be provided  in the UK 
state scheme and what could be provided  if the transfer went  to Australia. The business  
stated that assuming a withdrawal rate of 5.21% from age 60 from the Australian scheme the 
growth rate required to provide similar  benefits could  be as low as 2.63%.
The business stated  that the advice to transfer was based on the assumption that transfer to 
a QROPS arrangement  would be possible. If it had known that the QROPS  arrangements  
would no longer exist after Mr L had emigrated  then the transfer to the interim plan would not 
have been recommended.
The business was pleased that I agreed  that the elimination of the currency mismatch would 
be beneficial.
The business stated  that it had tried to contact Mr L to discuss his pension  arrangements  
after he had emigrated to Australia but that it had been difficult. It had spoken to his wife in 
Australia and she had agreed that no one had a crystal ball about the QROPS issue. 
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L was going  to emigrate to Australia.  This would  have been considered to be a 
permanent move and in those circumstances it would be sensible to remove  the currency  
mismatch if possible.  The currency  mismatch arises from having  a pension paid in one 
Ref: DRN19907054currency (in this case pounds sterling) and living in another country  where the costs are paid 
in a different currency (in this case Australian  Dollars).
At the time that Mr L met the business there were significant issues when looking at 
overseas transfers.  In particular, transfers out of the unfunded public sector  pension  
schemes would  stop after 5 April 2015  and also the Government was looking  at whether 
transfers to QROPS should  be permitted in the future.
Mr L had accrued benefits in an unfunded  UK pension scheme that were  worth about 
£140,000 and the firm was aware  that this was all of his pension provision. It is also 
important in this complaint  to take into account  that Mr Ls wife had accrued significant 
benefits in an unfunded  public sector  pension  scheme in the UK. These benefits were not 
going to be transferred to Australia as Mrs L was querying the level of benefits that the OPS 
administrator was showing that she had accrued.
In the circumstance of this case it was clear that Mr and Mrs L were  not going  to be able to 
cut all their ties with the UK. They were therefore  not going  to be able to eliminate the 
currency risks of having pension benefits  paid in pounds and living in a country where their 
costs would be based in Australian  dollars.
It is also the case that it was known  at the time of advice in early 2015 that transfers out of 
UK unfunded pension  schemes would no longer be allowed after 6 April 2015.
The business has argued that it believed  that the transfers to QROPS  in Australia would be 
allowed in the future  and that if had known that this was not going  to be the case it would 
have told Mr L not to transfer.
In my opinion the business should have considered the known facts at the time of advice. It 
should not have given  advice on the basis that it expected that the government  review of 
QROPS would conclude  that transfers to Australian pension arrangements would be allowed 
in the future. The outcome was unknown at the time. The benefits  that Mr L was seeking 
advice about were all of his pension provisions. In my opinion the business should  have 
considered the possibility  that after the government  review transfers to QROPS in Australia 
might no longer be allowed. In that case if Mr L he transferred out of the OPS  where his 
deferred benefits were  held into a PPP he could become stuck in a PPP rather  than the 
Australian QROPS  that he wanted to transfer into. The business has accepted it would not 
have advised  him to transfer his OPS  benefits  into a PPP, other than as a stepping-stone  to 
investing in a QROPS.
Given the critical yield required to match the benefits  I consider that the advice in this case  to 
Mr L should have  been do not transfer  but retain  the inflation protected  benefits  that he had 
accrued in the UK public  sector pension scheme.
I therefore consider  that this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Integral Financial Advice Limited  and consider that a fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for the business  to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
Ref: DRN19907055Integral Financial Advice Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.  
Integral Financial Advice Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ls contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mr Ls SERPS/S2P entitlement.  
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan.  The payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
For example, if Mr L wouldnt yet have taken  a tax-free cash sum from the employers 
scheme, 25% of the loss would  be tax-free and 75% would have  been  taxed according to his 
likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed  to be 20%. So making  a notional deduction 
of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr L 
within 90 days of the date Integral Financial Advice Limited receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes Integral Financial  Advice  Limited to pay Mr L this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Finally I direct that the business  pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience  that he 
has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19907056
Ref: DRN19907057complaint
Mr L has complained  about the advice he received in February 2015 from Integral Financial Advice  
Limited (referred to from now on as Integral) to transfer of the value  of his deferred pension benefits 
from a public  sector occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Qualifying  Recognised Overseas 
Pension Scheme (QROPS) arrangement. Mr L is unhappy  that having transferred out of the OPS  to a 
Personal Pension Plan (PPP) he has not managed  to subsequently transfer to a QROPS. Mr L is also 
unhappy his funds were  not invested for some time.
Mr L has complained  that he paid a fee of about £5,000 to arrange  the transfer to a QROPS.      Mr L 
states he was badly advised,  overcharged  and the new pension plan has shown no growth  since 
inception.   
background
In January 2015 Mr L approached  Integral to discuss what to do with the value  of his public  sector  
OPS benefits as he was planning to emigrate  and had accepted a job that was due to start in summer  
2015. Mr L had received a transfer value quote  in lieu of his deferred pension benefits of £139,499. 
This was not guaranteed. 
Mr L was advised by Integral  to transfer the value  of his OPS benefits  to an overseas QROPS  
arrangement. At this time the Draft Overseas Pensions Scheme (Miscellaneous) Regulation  2015 had 
been published (on 17 December 2014). This set out that from April 2015 the definition  of a scheme 
that could be classed as a QROPS would change.
Any overseas pension scheme permitting  the payment  of benefits earlier than age 55 would no longer 
be deemed to be a qualifying scheme and such payments would  be subject to UK taxation.
This had raised concerns  within the industry that the number of QROPS  available would reduce  after 
April 2015. The finalised  rules were  laid before  Parliament on 13 March 2015.  Mr L met the business  
whilst the proposed changes to the QROPS rules were  being  considered.
At about the same time the UK government had announced that after 6 April 2015 transfers out of 
unfunded UK public sector  pension schemes would no longer be allowed. This meant that if Mr Ls 
proposed transfer  was to go ahead it would  have to be completed before 6 April 2015.
Integral obtained details of Mr Ls deferred benefits which allowed for benefits  that he had transferred 
in from another  public  sector  pension  scheme. Mr L had accrued pension  benefits  in respect of over 
16 years service. Whilst Mr L had already  opted out of the OPS in order to save  the monthly  
contributions that were payable  Integral  stated that it would have recommended  he remain in the 
OPS.
On 5 February 2015 Integral sent Mr L a copy of a Pension Transfer Analysis Report. This showed 
the critical yield was 8.82%. This meant that based  on the assumptions used the transfer value  
offered would have to grow at a rate of 8.82%  per annum to provide a fund at retirement  that was 
equal to the value of the OPS benefits given up. The business  stated this critical yield would have 
been too high to recommend  a transfer from the OPS to a PPP in the UK.  
Integral noted that Mr L was emigrating permanently  and was not intending to return to the UK and 
the benefits payable  on retirement  on various  assumptions looked  higher if the transfer overseas went 
ahead. This was because of the different treatment of retirement  funds in the two countries.
If the transfer went ahead Integral agreed to reduce its fee to 3.5% of the amount transferred. On the 
transfer value offered this was just under £5,000. The fees due to Integral were  taken from the 
transfer value when the OPS  benefits were transferred into the PPP.
Ref: DRN19907058As a transfer  to a QROPS could not take place  at that time and as a temporary measure the funds  
were transferred out of the OPS into a PPP before 6 April 2015.  The transfer value was then placed in 
a cash fund whilst Mr L awaited advice from the business on where to invest his transfer value.
The PPP had to be transferred to a QROPS arrangement within six months of Mr L moving overseas  
for it to avoid any tax. 
Mr L was put in touch with an adviser overseas  who could assist and they believed that the proposed  
changes to the QROPS  rules would be sufficient to obtain UK Inland Revenue approval but this was 
not certain to be forthcoming.
It was clear from these rules that the majority of QROPS  arrangements would not be able to continue 
after 6 April 2015 as they didnt meet the minimum age requirement  unless
they altered their rules  (which would  take time). The issue was that many QROPS allowed  benefits to 
be taken early  in some  conditions (such as severe financial hardship) which wouldnt meet HMRCs  
requirements. 
As his funds were not transferred  to a QROPS arrangement Mr L complained to Integral about the 
advice that he had received. This complaint was rejected  by Integral. The matter was then referred to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service  in February 2017. The complaint was investigated  by an 
adjudicator who stated  that she was minded to uphold  the complaint as she believed that the advice  
to transfer was inappropriate and she set out a method of determining redress.
As Integral  did not agree  with the adjudicator the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint and I am minded to reach the same  conclusion as the adjudicator but 
to propose a different method of redress.
In my opinion  there  were  a number of special  and complex issues that needed to be considered by 
Integral when  advising  Mr L. These  included  the issue of whether Mr L was moving overseas 
permanently; whether there was a chance that he might return to the United Kingdom  after a number  
of years; what his attitude to risk was; and whether  the transfer  value offered  good value  for money. 
Integral also had to take in to consideration the fact that there were issues at the time about whether 
there would  be a QROPS available for Mr L after the rules had changed.  
There were  clearly significant time pressures as the transfer out of the OPS (if it was to go ahead) had 
to be completed before 6 April 2015 and the transfer to a new QROPS had to take place within six 
months of Mr L moving overseas and taking up residency for him to avoid any tax charge.
 
Integral asked Mr L whether  it was his intention to return to the UK after a spell of living overseas and 
Mr L categorically stated that the move would  be permanent  and that he wished to sever all ties with 
the UK.
As Mr Ls move  was planned to be permanent, elimination of the currency mismatch between  where 
Mr L lived and the currency of the OPS benefits (which were set up in pounds) would have been 
considered beneficial. Indeed it was noted as a high priority issue for Mr L.
Fixing the transfer  value  at the prevailing exchange rates would be beneficial if the pound weakened 
in the future. But if the pound was to strengthen in the future then the position  would  be reversed.
Ref: DRN19907059Integral was aware that transfers  to QROPS arrangements were  suspended and it advised Mr L to 
transfer initially to a PPP as a temporary solution that could be arranged before         6 April 2015.  
After this Integral believed  that the transfer to a QROPS could be arranged after the review by the UK 
government into QROPS  had been completed and the rules amended. What was not clear  at the time 
of advice  was whether  the review would  continue to allow  transfers to QROPS to be permitted.  
Given the level of uncertainty  that there was surrounding the future  availability of QROPS and the 
high critical  yield that had to be achieved  to match the OPS benefits  that were being given  up I 
consider that the advice  from Integral should  have  been  not to transfer. 
The fact find that was completed on 5 February 2015 recorded that Mr L was willing to accept a 
Reasonable Risk. This was on a scale of Larger  Risk, Reasonable Risk,  Minimal Risk and No Risk.
Given the uncertainties  as to whether the transfer to a QROPS would  be allowed and the critical yield 
of 8.82% I consider  that the advice should have been not to transfer as there was a high risk that he 
would be worse  off on retirement  after transferring.
Integral would  also have known that at that time UK pension providers were  required to produce 
illustrations on three standard assumed  rates of growth of 5%, 7% and 9%. So that the required  
critical yield of 8.82% would have been considered  high.
I note that Integral has stated that if it was just looking at a transfer to a UK based PPP arrangement 
its advice would  have  been not to transfer. In my opinion this advice would have been followed by Mr 
L. 
I consider that Integral would have understood the implications of the impending  change  to legislation 
and should have realised that there was no certainty that a transfer to a QROPS  arrangement would 
be possible in the future.
However the reports and recommendations dont refer to this. There is a caveat that Integral couldnt  
be held responsible for any HMRC changes. But I dont think Mr L could reasonably  have inferred 
from the correspondence that there were imminent  changes to the legislation  that would mean  that he 
might not be allowed to transfer from the PPP to a QROPS arrangement.
I note that Mr Ls wife also had deferred pension  benefits in another UK public sector  pension  scheme  
but these could not be transferred before the deadline. This it appears was because Mrs L was 
querying the level of her pension benefits with her OPS administrator. It is clear  therefore that Mr and 
Mrs L were not going  to be able to break all ties with the UK after they had emigrated. 
In my opinion  Mr L would  not have wished to transfer out of the UK OPS into a PPP only to discover 
that the rules would not then allow him to transfer to a QROPS arrangement.  Mr L would in those 
circumstances have  given up index-linked deferred pension benefits  for a transfer value that was too 
low. This is shown by the high critical yield that had been calculated.
I believe that, if Mr L had been told it was not absolutely certain that he would  be able to transfer to a 
QROPS and in fact there was a real risk he might not be able to, he would have left his deferred 
pension benefits  in the UK.
The business  has argued in its correspondence that the actions of his wife should not be considered 
as her plans  and circumstances might be different  to those of her husband      Mrs Ls pension 
arrangements arent key to my decision about Mr Ls complaint. I simply observe there was no reason 
why Mr L could not have also left his deferred pension  benefits in the UK OPS  and Mr and Mrs L were 
not severing all ties with the UK.
Whilst Mr L was aware that the transfer value  was not that generous (which is why the critical  yield 
was high) he should, in my opinion, have been told not to transfer. There  was a risk that Mr L, after 
Ref: DRN199070510transferring from the OPS to a PPP,  would  not be able to transfer  from the PPP to an overseas 
QROPS due to the new legislation that was being introduced.
Whilst I appreciate  that it would be difficult for the business to discuss the PPP with Mr L once he had 
moved overseas and was working long hours, I do think that it would have been possible  to have 
email correspondence. This could have fixed a convenient time to have a phone call to discuss where 
to invest  the funds in the PPP. 
I have then looked at the redress  methodology proposed by the adjudicator. In my opinion the delay in 
getting the funds invested would  not have  arisen had the business been  more persistent in contacting 
Mr L to discuss the matter.
I know that Mr L worked overseas and was working  long hours but in my opinion  the business  should  
have been able to contact Mr L sooner than it did in order to agree an investment strategy  for the 
PPP. This could have  been  by email  and then by phone, so I consider that there is no need to 
determine a notional transfer value  of the policy  as had been  suggested by the adjudicator.
In addition I am minded  to direct that Integral pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience that 
he has experienced.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint  against Integral  Financial Advice Limited, and 
that a fair and reasonable  outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Integral Financial Advice Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.  This 
calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision. 
Integral Financial Advice Limited may wish to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Ls contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details  should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take 
into account  the impact  of leaving the occupational  scheme  on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mr Ls 
pension plan.  The payment  should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this. 
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr L within 90 
days of the date Integral Financial Advice Limited  receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, 
that it takes Integral Financial Advice Limited to pay Mr L this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
Ref: DRN199070511the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
Finally I am minded to direct that the business  pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience that 
he has suffered.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1990705