K820x#14complaint
Mr E complaints Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have provided poor service levels 
and sent confusing statements regarding his pension plan.
background
Mr E had previously been in an occupational  pension scheme (OPS) when he left that
employment and transferred  the OPS to a section 32 buy-out  bond with AXA.
The AXA pension plan had two plan numbers. One plan was written  to a retirement  age of 
sixty and the other to a retirement age of sixty-five.
The funds within each  pension  plan had been  invested between the following funds:
- With Profits
- Higher Income
- UK Equity
- Far East
- Europe  (Excluding  the UK)
AXA became part of Friends Life around June  2010 when they transferred Mr Es
pension plans to them. In or around December 2014, Friends  Life entered into
negotiations to become part of Aviva, and this was finalised  in April 2015.
On 2 February 2018, Mr E received a letter from Aviva. He felt there  was information missing 
from his pension statements and this caused  him concern. Mr E contacted Aviva and 
exchanged a number of telephone calls with them.
This resulted in Aviva writing to Mr E on 28 March 2018 on two separate  occasions  but 
Mr Es main concern remained  that Aviva didnt  seem  to know  where his funds  were.
Aviva responded with a letter dated 9 April 2018  but only highlighted one plan number with 
no breakdown  of where the fund was invested.  They issued a further letter on 13 April 2018 
with the correct information.
Mr E didnt feel reassured about  the whereabouts of his pension  funds  and he
complained to Aviva about their service  and the lack in confidence  that he had in them.
Our adjudicator looked into matters for Mr E. He found Aviva had responded to Mr E on 
11 May 2018. They apologised and acknowledged  Mr E hadnt  received the level of service  
they would  have expected. They enclosed a cheque for £150 in recognition  of this. The 
adjudicator found  Aviva  had admitted administration, I.T issues and human error were  to 
blame for the failure to provide Mr Es pension information. They also recognised the trouble 
and upset this caused Mr E and had offered £150  by way of compensation. He felt this was 
fair and reasonable and didnt ask them  to do anything further. 
Mr E disagreed. He felt Aviva hadnt  adequately  explained what had happened and didnt 
feel £150 reflected  the worry this caused him and so he asked for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN17718652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at all the information from both parties  afresh. Having done  so, I agree with the 
conclusion our adjudicator  reached  not to uphold this complaint.  My reasons are largely  the 
same as the adjudicators and are set out below. 
Firstly, may I say I understand Mr E has had a very difficult  time with a close family member 
undergoing treatment for a serious  illness. I sympathise with what must have been a 
stressful time and I appreciate he didnt need the additional trouble  and upset this matter 
caused him on top of everything  else.
Having said that my role here is to look if an error has occurred, if so what the business has 
done to address Mr Es concerns, and if it has been fair and reasonable. My remit doesnt 
extend to punitive measures nor am I able to fine a business for its actions.
There isnt a dispute that Aviva made  some  errors,  which  resulted in missing and incorrect 
information being sent to Mr E. Ive looked at the final response letter  Aviva  sent and I agree 
it doesnt really give an explanation as to why the errors occurred. They  apologised and 
recognised the service  they had provided  wasnt at the standard  they wouldve liked and 
offered Mr E £150  in recognition of this. 
Our adjudicator, in discussion with Aviva, was able to shed more light on what  had 
happened. It seems  that following the acquisition of Friends Life there are still some  issues  
with the merger of internal IT systems.  This had led to an administrative error,  so when Mr E 
requested information  on his plans  only one system was accessed and not so all the 
information on both plans was provided. I have noted that the full statements for both plans 
were sent on 13 April 2018. So both plans have  always been  there  but unfortunately, the IT 
systems and an administrative error  were  the reason for the missing and incomplete 
information.
I understand Mr E needed an explanation, which I hope he now has as to why the 
information wasnt readily available. In terms of redress, for trouble and upset as I said 
earlier I appreciate  this was already a difficult time for Mr E, but Im persuaded given  the 
circumstances of the complaint that £150 is fair and reasonable so Im not going to ask Aviva 
to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Ref: DRN17718653Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1771865