K822xcomplaint
Mr M says TSB Bank Plcs IT issues have had an impact on him
background 
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Mr M says this meant  a direct debit 
to his TSB credit card for £508.54 was returned unpaid  into the current account  he pays it 
from on 20 April 2018. Mr M rectified  this by making a faster payment to his credit card 
account for £508.54  on 23 April. 
On 5 December,  £508.54  was debited  from Mr Ms credit card statement with the description  
unpaid direct debit,  meaning the amount he owed on his credit card increased. Mr M raised 
a complaint with TSB about  this as he didnt think he owed the £508.54. TSB offered him 
£150 compensation during the phone call for any inconvenience caused. It also explained 
that two payments of £508.54  had been  made to the credit  card account in April when only 
one should have been. Mr M didnt think that he still owed the extra payment and felt TSB 
had been rude to him while he was raising  the complaint.  
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and agreed that TSB was correct to debit  the 
£508.54 in December as Mr M owed the outstanding payment. Mr M still didnt agree and 
wanted the adjudicator to make a finding on how TSB had treated him. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes all the information both TSB 
and Mr M have sent me. 
Having done so, I think TSB was correct to debit  the unpaid direct  debit from Mr Ms credit 
card account  totalling £508.54 in December 2018. But I acknowledge that it should  have 
done this back  in April when the error initially occurred. I think the £150 TSB has already 
offered is a fair way to resolve this complaint. Ill explain  why I think this. 
Ive firstly  considered the statements for the current account where the payments were made 
from. These clearly show that the regular direct  debit for the credit card totalling £508.34 was 
debited from the current account on 20 April and was returned  the same  day. A faster  
payment was then manually sent for the same  amount on 23 April.  So I can see Mr M 
rectified the issue just a few days later.
I then considered the statements for the TSB credit  card account. Looking  at this, I can see 
the faster payment  was received on 23 April,  which  ties in with what the current account 
statement shows. I can also see the direct  debit payment was received  on 20 April. But it 
wasnt returned the same day as the current account statements indicate.  Because  of this, 
the summary  of the credit card statement shows  the total payments received in April was 
£1,022.08. This is broken down as two separate payments of £508.54, plus a credit of £5 
cashback from TSB. So it appears that theres  been an error  in that TSB hasnt immediately 
reversed the unpaid direct  debit payment from the balance of the credit card account on 20 
April as it shouldve done. This has led to an additional £508.34 being paid off the credit card 
balance that shouldnt have been.
Ref: DRN12265642The credit card account then continues to run as normal  and the regular direct debit pays off 
each monthly balance. Its not until 5 December that the unpaid direct  debit which  should 
have been debited from the balance  back in April is finally processed. This shows as an 
outstanding balance on the statement and Mr M has said this was the first indication he 
received that there was a problem on the account.  
I can understand why this whole situation  has frustrated Mr M. It appears that due to the IT 
issues Mr M had trouble accessing his credit card statements. And there was an ongoing  
issue with his April statement which was showing no activity. So its more likely that Mr M 
hadnt seen the April statement showing the double payment  to his credit card. Having said 
that, more than one TSB representative did try to explain the situation  to Mr M during 
telephone calls. 
I appreciate that Mr M would like me to make  a finding on the way he was treated by various 
TSB representatives during the phone  calls where he raised  complaints. Mr M feels the 
representatives were  rude in their handling  of the phone calls. It should be noted that 
complaints around  customer service  can be subjective and what  one person may find rude 
may not be a problem  for others.  Having listened to all of the telephone  calls provided by 
TSB, I dont think that the representatives have  done anything that would warrant  additional  
actions or compensation for Mr M. 
Having considered all of the relevant information available to me, I agree that TSB made an 
error in April when it didnt immediately debit the unpaid direct  debit amount of £508.54 from 
the total remaining balance of the credit card. It then didnt process  this for almost nine 
months. But I do think it was correct to eventually debit this, leaving an outstanding payment 
that Mr M needed to pay. I think the £150  compensation already offered to Mr M is fair in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would have recommended. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I agree  with the offer previously put forward by TSB Bank Plc of 
£150 compensation and I dont think this should be increased. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1226564