K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) unfairly applied  an early  repayment 
charge when they redeemed their buy to let mortgage. Theyve also complained they werent  
told theyd have to cover the cost of two surveys  when making a negative  equity  application.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a buy to let mortgage  with BOI in 2004.  In February 2007, they 
applied to port their mortgage to another  property they were  renting out. The mortgage was 
for around  £72,579  on an interest only basis and the monthly  repayment  was around £362. 
The mortgage was taken out over 10 years so was due to end in 2017.
At the beginning  of 2016, Mr and Mrs J got in touch with BOI. They explained  the value of 
the property had dropped  so it was worth less than their outstanding borrowing. And they 
were concerned about having to sell the property at a loss at the end of the term to repay the 
outstanding capital. Mr and Mrs J asked BOI about  extending their interest  only term to give 
them time for the value of the property to increase. BOIs given us the recording of this call. 
The representative explained they could apply  for a new product with a new interest rate or 
they could informally  extend their interest  rate by six to twelve months. But to informally 
extend the term, theyd  need to get in touch at the end of the existing  term  in about a year.  
Mr and Mrs J applied for a new buy to let mortgage product at that stage for around  £72,579  
on an interest only basis. The mortgage  was provided on a fixed  rate of 3.29%  for five years, 
after which point it reverted to a standard variable rate (SVR). The term was due to end in 
2026 and the monthly  repayment was £198.99.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs J decided to sell their property. Unfortunately because  the property 
value hadnt fully recovered, the final offer they received  was less than the outstanding 
mortgage balance.  BOI also applied an early  repayment charge (ERC) to the amount 
owed, bringing  the total amount owed to around £75,500. Mr and Mrs J proposed to pay the 
shortfall through savings and an unsecured loan. But they complained BOI werent treating 
them fairly by applying the ERC when they were already in negative equity. 
BOI said itd made the ERC clear to Mr and Mrs J when they took out the mortgage  and it 
was their choice to proceed with the application. Its said ERCs enable it to offer various 
mortgage products  and features and it thinks its been applied fairly.  It also highlighted that 
Mr and Mrs J took out the mortgage on a non-advised  basis. And they chose to sell the 
property in 2019 understanding an ERC would be added. 
Mr and Mrs J approached  our service to look into things. Our investigator  didnt  uphold  the 
complaint as he thought the ERC had been  highlighted  to them so BOI had applied it fairly.  
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said if they hadnt re-
mortgaged in 2016, they wouldve been in a much  worse  position as the property was worth 
even less at that point.  They said they didnt feel they had any other  choice but to accept the 
ERC. And even though they agreed  to it, that doesnt mean  it was fairly applied. They 
explained they thought  BOI should  choose not to apply the ERC in their circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs J also explained they were unhappy  they werent clearly told they had to cover 
the cost of two surveys  when redeeming their mortgage in 2019   and this cost them  a total 
of £480. BOI said Mr and Mrs J agreed  to this in the negative equity application. So it 
wouldnt agree  to refund it. 
Ref: DRN18715302I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2019.  I explained  I didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld in summary  because:
I understood why Mr and Mrs J wanted  to plan ahead and re-mortgage  instead of risking  
waiting until the term was coming to an end to ask for an informal extension. But I 
thought that was their choice and they couldve chosen not to re-mortgage at that time.
The mortgage was extended on a non-advised basis. And I thought BOI had given 
Mr and Mrs J enough information, clearly and fairly, to make up their own mind about 
whether to go ahead. 
BOI explained over the phone there would be an ERC if they applied for a new 
mortgage. And it set out what the ERC would be in the mortgage offer which  
Mr and Mrs J accepted. 
I didnt think Mr and Mrs J had been  put in a worst position  financially by taking out the 
mortgage even  with the ERC.  Looking at their monthly payments prior to re-mortgaging,  I 
thought theyd benefitted from taking  out a new product with a lower interest rate. Had 
they decided not to proceed in order to avoid the ERC, I thought  they wouldve paid more 
than the amount of the ERC over the same period. 
Although I accepted  the negative equity  pack  didnt specify  the actual cost of the 
valuations, I thought Mr and Mrs J were made aware theyd need to cover  the cost of two 
valuations. And considering they were buy-to-let  investors, I expected theyd be more  
commercially aware than residential property owners and they couldve questioned  how 
much the valuations were before agreeing to the terms.
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. BOI 
said it accepted  my findings and had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs J said they didnt 
agree with my provisional decision in summary because:
Theyd been customers of BOI for a long time and hadnt missed any payments. And 
they think another, more sympathetic company would write off the debt regardless of the 
contractual right to charge  the ERC. 
They said BOI offered  them the opportunity to redeem their mortgage part way through  
the original term without the ERC  being  applied and they wouldve been paid a bonus.  
Although Mr and Mrs J werent  in a position  to take up BOIs offer at the time (so didnt 
get to reduce their loss),  they think it was BOIs response to a bad mortgage  debt.  
Following BOIs agreement to their repayment  proposal, it quoted  the amount 
outstanding without the ERC  and didnt mention the ERC at that point. So they think 
this means BOI was no longer applying it.
They discussed the repayment proposal on several occasions  with BOI and the cost of 
the surveys were never mentioned. Theyve  said they were surprised it seemed BOI was 
going to cover this cost.  
Ref: DRN18715303my findings
Ive carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments  including  what  
Mr and Mrs J have said to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And I still dont  think the complaint should  be upheld. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J feel they were loyal customers  to BOI  and it could be more 
sympathetic to them in their circumstances. But for the reasons Ive explained in my 
provisional decision and above, I dont think BOI were obliged  to remove the ERC  for this 
reason. So I dont think its acted unreasonably in applying this charge. 
Mr and Mrs J have said during their initial conversation with a BOI representative, he didnt 
mention the ERC or quote the outstanding  balance with it. Whilst I dont doubt what 
Mr and Mrs J have said, Im not satisfied this means the ERC no longer  applied. For the 
reasons Ive given  above, I think BOI clearly  explained an ERC would apply when they 
applied for and subsequently  agreed to the mortgage. And Im not persuaded the 
representative not mentioning it during the conversation changes this. 
I havent listened to the calls during which Mr and Mrs J say the cost of the surveys werent 
mentioned. In any event,  I do think BOI couldve explained the actual cost of the surveys  
more clearly. But Im satisfied it did explain Mr and Mrs J would need to cover  the cost of two 
surveys. And I think its more likely  than not they expected theyd need to cover this -
particularly as theyve  said they were surprised  when  they thought BOI was going  to cover 
the cost for them (because it wasnt mentioned). So I still dont  think BOI treated them 
unfairly by applying these charges to the mortgage balance.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J have said they missed  out on the opportunity to reduce their 
losses by redeeming their original mortgage early.  And whilst I havent seen the letter  
theyve referred to  and dont have further  information about why this was offered to them,  I 
accept this may have  happened. Whilst it mightve  enabled them to reduce their losses,  it 
seems from what  Mr and Mrs J have said this was an offer they werent in a position  to take 
advantage of it at the time.  And from what theyve said about  it, I dont think it means BOI 
wasnt able to continue  applying the terms of the mortgage  or applied  the ERC  unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my 
decision before  3 November 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1871530