K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the settlement offer and claims handling of his water damage claim 
under his home insurance policy. The policy is provided by Ageas Insurance  Limited.
 
background
Mr B made a claim after he suffered a leak at his home. Ageas appointed  expert  
representatives to inspect and validate the claim on its behalf.  The affected area was flooring 
in the kitchen, utility and garden rooms. Initially Mr B was offered a replacement up to the 
value of £2,800 or a cash figure of £2,500. Mr B accepted this. But once the details were  
passed back to Ageas it said these offers were incorrect and reduced the offer to Mr B to 
£995.27. This was because it said only the kitchen floor was damaged and this was the net 
amount after it had taken off the £250  policy  excess. Mr B didnt accept this. He felt he 
should receive the first amount that had been  agreed between him and the experts 
appointed by Ageas. Mr B brought his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the three areas should be treated as one 
area as there were no divides, breaks, or doors splitting up the flooring. She said as the 
flooring was no longer available this would disrupt  the flooring throughout the three areas.  
Our investigator said the flooring should be treated as one and that Ageas  should be 
replacing the floor across  all three areas. Ageas  didnt accept this and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that a leak took place and that flooring was damaged.  However, there is 
a dispute between Ageas and its appointed representatives about the correct outcome of the 
claim. I think  that Mr B has unfortunately been caught up in this situation  and it has clearly 
affected the handling of the complaint.
The report  from the experts said that the flooring had been  damaged  up to an area of 11 
square metres. It also said that the garden room appeared to be unaffected. This links in 
with the business file that said there was ingress to the utility room but the garden room 
didnt appear to be damaged. But Ageas decided once  it was provided with the claim report  
that only the kitchen was damaged. So it was only willing to settle the claim for this one 
room. Based on its own evidence I dont think thats fair or reasonable.
Theres been quite  a bit of discussion on the file about matching sets and the approach  
taken by Ageas to such claims. But I think our investigator was clear  that this isnt a 
matching sets case. The photos clearly show that the flooring is all one throughout the three 
areas. Also, it does  seem that there  have been issues  with the claims handling.  Im not 
convinced that the true extent of the damage  has been fully uncovered.  Ageas expert was 
on track to put matters  right at the start of the claim. In fact Mr B had agreed  settlement with 
the experts before Ageas got involved.  Ive not seen any evidence  that shows me the 
damage was only in one room and the expert evidence  confirms  the same.  Ageas appear to 
have decided to limit the claim based  upon  photos and because there are some  issues  in 
terms of approach to claim  settlements with its own experts. I dont think  thats fair on Mr B.
Ref: DRN14059342Even if there  was any persuasive evidence from Ageas showing theres no other damage 
that doesnt change the fact that the floor is all one and is no longer available. So to put Mr B 
back into as close a position as he was before the loss requires the floor throughout the 
three rooms  to be replaced. The fair and reasonable outcome is for Ageas to deal with the 
claim for the replacement of all three areas flooring.
I think this has been a stressful situation for Mr B. He thought at the start the claim was all 
going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. But once Ageas took control  problems started to 
arise and havent been resolved. In view of the problems Ageas did offer Mr B £50 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the changes it made with the 
claims offers. I think Ageas was right to make an offer and I think  £50 is fair compensation 
for the distress caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
deal with the claim for the flooring throughout the three  areas;
pay the £50 compensation for distress  and inconvenience it has already offered  if it 
hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1405934