K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined  part of a claim 
they made on their home insurance. 
Mr N has led this complaint with our service.  So to keep things simple Ill refer to him and his 
wife as Mr N collectively throughout this decision,  except where specified.
background
In March 2018 a wardrobe  in Mr Ns home was accidently dropped  onto a radiator leading to 
an escape of water in their three  bedroom home.  A home emergency engineer was called 
and the damage  was contained to one bedroom.  UKI then considered  a claim under Mr Ns 
buildings and contents policy and sent a claims inspector to assess the issue.  
The radiator was unable  to be repaired or replaced  immediately. This meant  one of the three 
bedrooms of the property   Mr Ns sons room   was without heating for 24 days. Mr Ns son 
has a condition that means  he is affected  by change,  and that continuity is very important  in 
his routine. And Mr N has said the damage to the room, aesthetically,  the smell of damp,  and 
because of the lack of heating, caused his son distress as a result. And he said this was to 
the extent that the room was uninhabitable  and his son had to be moved elsewhere 
immediately.
Mr N says he arranged for his son to live temporarily with an acquaintance who lived several 
miles away. And he said they made a gentlemens agreement that the friend would be paid 
£125 a day, based  on the daily cost of alternative  accommodation in the local area.  Mr N 
says he has paid around £500 so far towards these costs but still owed an additional £2,500.
Mr N said there was no other room in the house that his son could have stayed  in instead. 
And UKI says it was told that Mr Ns daughter lived in Mr Ns third bedroom. 
Mr N said he told UKI of his sons condition around two or three  weeks after the damage  first 
occurred. But UKI said it didnt feel Mr Ns request for alternative  accommodation  was 
necessary. It said the bedroom in question was still habitable  and only needed a repair to a 
pipe or to fit a replacement radiator to heat the room again.  And UKI said it couldve provided 
temporary heaters  for the room had the concerns  about cold been discussed at the time.
UKI also said in the circumstances it thought  Mr Ns son would have been better served  by 
staying in familiar surroundings as opposed  to being moved to another  property.  But it said it 
would offer a disturbance allowance of £250  for the impact on Mr Ns son.
Mr N brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and 
didnt uphold  it. He said the policy would cover  alternative accommodation when the 
property, or part of the property, wasnt fit to be lived in while  it was being repaired. But he 
said the damage wasnt severe  enough  to describe it as not fit to be lived in. This was 
because essential  facilities such as the kitchen  and bathroom were still available.  And the 
investigator highlighted that the rest of the property wasnt affected.
Ref: DRN17026242Mr N initially said he had a couple  living  in the upstairs bedroom that his son had previously 
lived in so there was no space  to move his son. He said they paid a monthly informal rent 
and helped out around the home, caring  for his son as well as cooking  and cleaning. The 
investigator highlighted that Mr N and his lodgers continued to live in the property during the 
repair so he wasnt satisfied the home  wasnt fit to be lived in, and overall he said the offer 
UKI had made for disturbance allowance was fair. 
Mr N responded to say the damage  was extensive and affected the electrics of the room.  
And he said it was very cold at that time of year, and these temperatures couldve seriously 
affected his sons  health. He also said it wasnt made clear that he wouldnt receive  a 
payment for alternative accommodation.
Our investigator looked again and said he said he felt UKIs suggestion of keeping Mr Ns 
son at home  to give him consistency was reasonable. So he couldnt  agree UKI had acted 
unfairly by not providing alternative  accommodation. And he said UKI had consistently told 
Mr N it would need to consider  whether  alternative  accommodation was required before 
confirming it would be paid. So he didnt  think it had given unclear  messaging to Mr N. 
The investigator also said that he could see UKI wouldve likely provided a heater  or heaters 
in the bedroom to combat the cold. But it couldnt  do this as Mr N had moved his son out 
immediately so it didnt  have the opportunity. The investigator said there  was no evidence  of 
damage to the electrics  or plug sockets.  But in any case UKI had said it would agree for this 
to be checked,  and fixed immediately if Mr N had wanted this.
 
To understand the extent  of the damage, the investigator then asked all parties to provide 
evidence or photos  of the bedroom. UKI provided  photos (that have been  shared with Mr N) 
that it describes  as minor  damage to the flooring and dcor  alongside the radiator. Mr N 
reiterated it was severe  but didnt provide any photos or evidence to support this.
Mr N asked for an ombudsmans  final decision so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr Ns complaint to our service is about UKIs decision to not provide alternative  
accommodation as a result of this escape of water claim. All other aspects of the claim are 
not in dispute. So in this case I have to consider what the policy  says about alternative 
accommodation, and whether UKI has applied these terms reasonably  in the circumstances.
Mr Ns policy  says:
We will pay up to £25,000, in total, for comparable alternative accommodation  for youif:
your  home, or part of your home , is not fit to be lived in while your home is being 
repaired, due to a valid claim you have made
The bedroom in question is part of the home . So if it was not fit to be lived in during the 
period of repair, then I think  UKI should pay for the cost of alternative accommodation.
Ref: DRN17026243Ive seen photos from UKI that suggest  the damage  to the floor was limited  to one area of 
the bedroom in question. The flooring and underlay were lifted for a small section of the 
room, leaving the floorboards exposed. Given this only impacts one relatively small section  
of the room, I cant see that this would stop someone from still living in the bedroom. 
Mr N has said the radiator  being  cut off meant the room was very cold during this period. UKI 
has said had Mr N not immediately moved his son out of the home   leaving the bedroom  
empty  it could have  provided heaters for the period of repair. Mr N has said he didnt tell 
UKI about his sons condition  until several weeks after the damage occurred. I think  this 
prevented UKI from being able to consider alternative options or solutions to Mr Ns 
concerns immediately. I cant say for certain  what would have happened as UKI didnt have 
the opportunity  to provide  any heaters. But Im satisfied  its likely UKI wouldve done this 
based on my experience  of its claims handling.  And I think this would have been a 
reasonable way to overcome the problem of cold in the room.
Mr N has also raised concerns about  the electricity as a result of damp. UKI said it would  
cover costs for a report and any repairs if needed  but didnt believe this was likely. Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest any reports or repairs were  carried out on the electrics so I have no 
reason to think the escape of water  did compromise the safety  of the electrics  in the room. 
Overall Im satisfied the bedroom in question was fit to be lived in. So I dont think  UKI 
needed to consider providing alternative  accommodation under  the terms of the policy.
Mr N has given us details  about his sons condition, and I understand things out of place and 
a lack of continuity can cause him distress. So Ive thought about the individual impact  on 
Mr Ns son in this case. And taking  into account whats fair and reasonable, whether this 
means UKI should  have done  anything  further  in the circumstances.
UKI said taking into account  Mr Ns sons needs, that it believed  he wouldve been  better  
staying in the family home as opposed to being  moved in with a family acquaintance.  Ive not 
been provided with any medical opinion to suggest this was required for Mr Ns son. While  
Ive carefully considered  what Mr N has said, I think its likely  that consistency  could still be 
provided in the home; albeit I appreciate any changes may impact his son. Ive also 
considered what  Mr N couldve reasonably done  to help mitigate the disturbance. So while  I 
accept it Mr Ns son may have been  distressed by staying in his usual bedroom,  Ive thought 
about whether  it would have been  reasonable for him to swap  rooms for a short  time. I say 
this as Im satisfied the bedroom with the escape of water  was still fit to be lived in.
From the notes Ive seen,  it appears Mr N previously told UKI his daughter was staying in an 
upstairs bedroom in the home.  But Ive listened to a phone call between  Mr N and our 
investigator where he explained  in detail that he had two paying guests living in the upstairs 
bedroom at the time. He said they had been  there for around two years,  paying  an informal 
rent of £750 a month, and he said this bedroom that was formerly his sons. When asked 
about this since  Mr N has said this room was his daughters and she is allowed guests that 
stay, and this may have  been misinterpreted by our service.
So its not clear  to me who was staying in this third bedroom at the time.  But if it was his 
daughter or her guests as he has now suggested,  I cant see why they couldnt have 
swapped rooms with his son for this period as a pragmatic solution  for this problem. 
Particularly as Mr N said his son had lived in the upstairs bedroom  previously.
Ref: DRN17026244I think the disturbance  allowance  UKI has offered for this period accounts for this type of 
upheaval within the home, and is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. So Im not asking 
UKI to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1702624