K820x#14.
background
A MPPI policy was added to Mr Ss mortgage account in 1994. It protected his mortgage 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment. Halifax cant say how the policy  
was sold to Mr S. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. As Mr S doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, his complaint has been  passed to me. Mr S says he was unaware that MPPI  had 
been added. He said he didnt need  it because he had sufficient savings and cover through 
work. He says his house was also rented out for a two year period between 1995 and 1997 
and the rent covered the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. I will explain why.
Mr S says MPPI was added without him knowing.  Halifax hasnt been able to provide  much  
of the sales documentation that was used at the time of sale. Banks often only keep records  
for six years. As I wasnt there, I cant know what was discussed at the time.  So, as some  of 
the evidence is either  incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made a decision based on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   looking at whats  available.
Based on the limited  information I have, and what we know  generally about  how Halifax was 
selling these policies  around this time from dealing with other cases, I dont have  enough to 
fairly conclude that Mr S wouldnt have been  given  any information about the MPPI and the 
option to say whether he wanted it or not. I think  it just as likely that he was told about  MPPI 
and chose to take it out to protect  his mortgage  repayments. I can understand why he may 
not remember it that way now after so much  time.  So, I cant  fairly  uphold Mr Ss complaint 
on this ground.
I think it likely that Halifax recommended the MPPI  to Mr S. So it had to make  sure the policy  
was suitable for his needs. It also had to give him enough information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that he could make an informed choice about whether to buy it.
I cant see that the policy looked  unsuitable for Mr S. I say this because:
Mr S was eligible  to take out the policy; 
The policy wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Ss work benefits,  and possibly  for longer. 
So, I think the policy wouldve been  of use to him during what  might be a difficult  time 
financially. It wouldve provided  him with valuable  assurance  that his home  was 
protected if he was out of work. I wouldve allowed  him to use his work benefits  to 
meet other household expenses.
Ref: DRN17895442Mr S said he had around three months  worth  of pay in savings. MPPI wouldve 
allowed him to use his savings to meet his other  household expenses if he wasnt 
working. Also, when  he first took out the policy he wouldnt  have been immediately 
covered because he hadnt  been  in continuous  employment for long enough. So, his 
savings couldve provided a useful safety net for a few months if he found himself  
immediately unable  to work, and prior to him being able to make a claim.
I cant see that Mr S was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  
So, I dont think having better  information about  these things wouldve changed his 
decision to buy MPPI  as he couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered.
I cant be sure that Mr S was given all the information about  the costs  of the policy  he 
shouldve been.  He paid £13.80 per month for £200 per month of cover. I think  he wouldve 
understood he had to pay something for MPPI  and I cant see that he wouldve done 
anything different and decided  against having  the policy.  I say this because  the policy 
seemed suitable,  competitively priced and affordable. 
Ive taken into account what Mr Ss said about renting out his house  and the rent covering 
the mortgage. However, based on what Mr Ss said, that didnt appear to be the position at 
the time the MPPI was sold.  It seems he was paying the mortgage out of his income.  So, this 
doesnt change  my view.
Even taking  into account any problems with the sale, I think  it unlikely Mr S wouldve made  a 
different decision and not bought the policy. So, it follows that I dont think he has lost out 
because of anything  Halifax  did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1789544