K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement  hes received  from American International  Group UK 
Limited (AIG) following a claim he made on his personal accident  insurance  policy.
background
In late 2013, while working abroad, Mr W sustained injuries to the upper part of his body 
following an accident.  He made a claim  on his personal accident  policy  in early 2016, but 
AIG didnt  fully assess it until 2018,  as Mr W was still undergoing treatment. 
AIG investigated Mr Ws claim under two sections of the Personal Accident part of the policy  
 permanent total disablement and permanent disability not otherwise listed.
In relation to the permanent disability not otherwise listed benefit, AIG arranged an 
independent medical assessment by a consultant  orthopaedic surgeon to properly assess 
Mr Ws claim. He found there  was damage  to Mr Ws cervical and thoracic spine giving rise 
to left brachial neuralgia.  He concluded  Mr W had suffered 20% impairment to his body as a 
direct result of the 2013 accident.  According  to the policy terms, Mr W was therefore entitled 
to 20% of the maximum settlement  amount  under this section. As Mr W had paid for two 
units of cover, this meant he was entitled  to 20% of £20,000, as each unit equates  to a 
settlement of up to £10,000.
AIG offered Mr W a total settlement of £11,103.80 
i. £5,000 under the permanent total disablement benefit; and
ii. 8% simple interest per annum  on this figure,  calculated from the date AIG received 
Mr Ws claim to the date it made  the payment  in recognition of the delay in assessing  
Mr Ws claim under the permanent total disablement benefit (£1,171.70)
iii. £4,000 under the permanent disability not otherwise listed  benefit; and
iv. 8% simple interest per annum  on this figure  calculated from the date AIG received 
Mr Ws claim to the date it made  the payment (£932.10) 
Additionally, AIG also offered £250  compensation for poor claims handling.
Mr W accepted AIGs offer under the permanent total disablement  benefit, including the 
additional interest. But he disputed the compensation  and amount offered under the 
permanent disability not otherwise listed benefit.
Mr W questioned the findings of the consultant AIG appointed,  disagreeing that hed suffered 
20% impairment. He didnt think the consultant was suitably qualified to reach  the 
conclusions that hed come to and said his report was inaccurate.  He said he has a disability 
that is permanent,  so he wanted AIG to settle this part of the claim by paying the maximum 
settlement under this section  £20,000.  He also thought the £250 compensation it offered 
was too low.
In its submission, AIG told us it relied on an expert  report (the consultant).  When Mr W 
disagreed with its decision,  AIG forwarded  his comments  to the consultant  for further review.  
But he stood  by his assessment, adding that his report wasnt biased  to either party.  AIG 
also told us that the payment of £932.10 to Mr W was in fact an overpayment   as it had 
incorrectly paid 8% simple interest on the permanent disability not otherwise listed benefit. 
But it wasnt  going to ask him to pay this amount back.
Ref: DRN14511562Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns and was satisfied AIG had fairly settled his 
claim in line with the policys terms and conditions. He thought it was reasonable for it to rely 
on the consultants  report in assessing the claim and he was satisfied the consultants 
comments were  based on Mr Ws medical  records. The investigator also thought the 
compensation AIG had offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators  findings. He didnt think a consultant orthopaedic 
surgeon was a suitable expert to comment on his injuries. Mr W supplied a letter dated 
12 January 2015  from a different consultant (Mr R) which he felt supported  his assertions. 
Our investigators findings remained unchanged as hed already taken this letter  into 
consideration during his investigation.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the matters come  to me for a 
decision. I note Mr W now has another claim being investigated under this policy for a 
traumatic brain injury resulting from the same  accident. However this decision is only on the 
settlement put forward for his spinal injury   for which the investigation has been  concluded 
by AIG.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W has faced challenges since his accident in 2013 and dont doubt that this 
has been a stressful  and difficult period of time. In looking at this complaint, the starting  point 
is the contract between  Mr W and AIG. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
If the disability  suffered  does not relate to a specific  disability mentioned, then we will 
assess the degree of disability  suffered  as a percentage of the whole body
To do this we or our chief medical officer will evaluate the impairment  and disability by 
reference to the American Medical Association Guide to the Evaluation of Permanent 
Impairment Sixth Edition  (and any subsequent revisions thereof)
In order to determine Mr Ws level of disability, AIG instructed a consultant orthopaedic 
surgeon to carry out an independent medical assessment. I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for AIG to do this. Reviewing the claim form Mr W submitted, it seems AIG has appointed a 
consultant who specialises  in the main  type of injury  Mr W reported  at this time.  Id add that 
Mr R, whose letter Mr W has provided in support of his claim, is also a consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon.
The consultants report does comment on other areas  which Mr W has suggested the 
consultant isnt entitled to do and has equated  it to asking a mate  at the pub. However I 
think its important to remember  the consultant is medically trained, has quoted the history  
provided to him and, from reading the report,  it seems he focuses his conclusion  on his area 
of specialism. Hes come to a conclusion  based on his medical opinion of the situation and 
answered the questions AIG has asked him to. I appreciate Mr W doesnt  agree with whats 
been said and considers  there are a number of errors in the report.  However I dont think  his 
Ref: DRN14511563concerns are supported with enough evidence for AIG to have disregarded the consultants 
opinion.
Mr W has said Mr Rs letter demonstrates there  were problems with his shoulders. It is clear 
from Mr Ws medical records that hes seen several  doctors and has undergone  several  
treatments in order to alleviate his symptoms. Im satisfied  these  consultations were  
considered by the consultant at the time of preparing his report. This includes Mr Rs letter  
it is noted on page 11 of the consultants report. The report  also notes on page 19 that Mr R 
subsequently suggested Mr W might be experiencing impingement symptoms  as opposed 
to AC joint symptoms . I dont doubt  Mr W is experiencing  problems with other areas  of his 
body. But based  on the available evidence, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for AIG 
to rely on the conclusion  in the consultants report  that Mr W has suffered 20% impairment  to 
his body as a direct result  of the accident in 2013.
Mr W has said that as his disability is permanent and comprises  of his whole shoulder joint 
(for example), he should be entitled  to the full cover. He says it isnt possible to be 100% 
disabled and to have a total loss of use of body  without being dead.  However  the policy 
doesnt work in this way. As set out above, it looks at the disability as a percentage of the 
whole body. And as it hasnt been determined that Mr Ws whole body is disabled,  this is 
why he isnt entitled to 100% of this benefit.
Mr W has made reference to Personal  Independence  Payments (PIP) that he receives  and 
has explained he receives the higher rate due to the level of his disability. But these  
payments are unrelated to his claim under  this policy. The criteria on which  his level of PIP is 
assessed is not the same as how AIG calculate  the amount hes due under the policy.  So 
while I appreciate  he may receive a high level of these  benefits, that doesnt mean he should 
receive 100% of the benefit AIG offers. Its my role to assess  whether AIG has acted  fairly  
and in line with the terms it agreed with Mr W.
Mr W has said the percentage reduction in benefit is unusual and wasnt drawn  to his 
attention at any point. However it isnt uncommon  for these types of policy  to pay a 
percentage of the benefit in line with what proportion of the body has been determined  as 
caused disability.  And I consider this is clearly  set out in AIGs policy documents.  If Mr W 
sought advice  in taking out the policy and believes the terms werent drawn to his attention, 
this is something he could raise with the advisor. But I think  AIG has made the terms clear  
and in assessing his claim, its then relied  on these terms, which form the contract between it 
and Mr W.
AIG accepts it should have dealt with part of the claim a lot quicker. It also accepts it could 
have been more pro-active during the claims process. I agree that the service  Mr W received 
wasnt of the correct level. However I think the interest its paid on the permanent  total 
disablement benefit  and the compensation its offered for the overall customer service it 
provided fairly recognises this. 
I say this because  AIG has also paid compensatory interest on the other  element of Mr Ws 
claim, which wasnt in fact due to Mr W, and AIG has confirmed its not looking to recover  
this amount. Combining  the overpayment and the compensation awarded,  Mr W has been  
offered over £1,000 in compensation. And I think it is fair to combine these, considering he 
wasnt due the overpayment. So on that basis, I think AIG has gone  over and above what  Id 
expect from it in putting matters right. So, I wont be asking it to pay anything further.
Ref: DRN14511564my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1451156