K820x#14complaint
Mr M says H R Owen Plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2005 Mr M took out a hire purchase  (HP) agreement to buy a new car. Mr M paid a 
deposit and borrowed  £26,484.30.  At the same time he was sold the PPI policy.  The policy  
premium was £3,713.84  which was added  to the borrowing.  The policy  covered Mr M 
against not being able to work due to accident or sickness. The policy would also have 
cleared the outstanding debt if Mr M had died or suffered a critical illness.  The HP 
agreement and the PPI policy were both taken out over a four year term.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Where there is limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats  more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why. 
The lender  has been able to show us a copy of the credit agreement signed  by Mr M in 2005 
when Mr M applied for the HP and was sold the PPI.
Mr M has told us it wasnt made clear the policy was optional, Mr M says he was told he 
needed to take the PPI in order to get the finance. 
I can see that section  two of the credit agreement is headed, PAYMENT PROTECTION 
PLAN in bold letters.  Immediately below this there is the statement, This recommended  
insurance is optional. 
The premium for the PPI is set out separately  to the main credit,  including the interest  it 
would attract and the total cost of the PPI.
I cant know what was said to Mr M during  the meeting, the paperwork from the time 
suggests the optional nature of the policy was made clear.  I think it is likely H R Owen told 
Mr M he should take the PPI but thats  not the same as saying he had to. Taking into 
account everything Ive seen I think its most  likely H R Owen  told Mr M he didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to buy it. Although I can understand  why he might  not 
recall this after so many  years.
H R Owen recommended  Mr M buy the policy. That means it had to make sure it was right 
for him. And from what Ive seen it looks like it was.
Ref: DRN19050762I can see Mr M was eligible for the policy. It didnt  cover  some things. But it doesnt  look as if 
these wouldve affected Mr M. For example he didnt have any medical conditions  that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr M has told us he was entitled to 12 months  sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work 
due to ill health. But this particular policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit in addition  to 
any sick pay for up to 24 months.  So I still think Mr M could have found the policy  useful, 
particularly if he was unable to work  for an extended period of time.
I realise Mr M had savings he could have  used to pay the HP repayments if he could not 
work. But he chose  to buy the car on finance  instead of using his savings  to put down  a 
larger deposit or buy the car outright. This suggests he wanted  to keep the savings intact.  
And the PPI would have meant  he didnt  have to dip into his savings to make the HP 
repayments if he couldnt work.
The purpose of the HP was to buy a car and the term of the HP was 48 months.  The PPI 
policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which was added to the credit. I note that if 
Mr M had cleared the credit early he wouldnt have got a proportionate  rebate so he may 
have lost out. But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M intended  to repay  the finance early  
or that he had a history of doing so. So I dont think the early cancellation terms made the 
policy unsuitable for him.
 
As well as making sure the policy was right for him, H R Owen  should also have given Mr M 
clear information about the policy so he could decide whether to buy it. Its possible              
H R Owen didnt give Mr M all the information  it shouldve done. But I think its likely he 
agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this type of cover.  The overall cost of the PPI 
was set out on the credit agreement and Ive not seen any evidence it was unaffordable.     
And as the policy appears to have been right for him, I dont think any clearer  information 
wouldve put Mr M off taking it out. So I dont think hes lost out because of anything              
H R Owen mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint, and I make no award  against         
H R Owen Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1905076