K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide  Building Society  acted unfairly when cancelling  her credit 
card and replacing it with a new one whilst  she was on holiday. Miss M says this has caused  
her significant trouble  and upset. 
background
Miss M travelled abroad for a holiday in April 2019.  Later in May 2019, whilst still on holiday,  
payment attempts using her credit card started  to get declined. 
As a result Miss M called Nationwide and discovered her card had been  replaced with a new 
one. She was told this had happened because Nationwide suspected her card details had 
been compromised. Because of this a replacement card had been sent to her UK home 
address. 
Nationwides supervisor  spoke to Miss M about  this. He apologised to Miss M for how this 
had impacted her. Miss M explained that she would now likely incur charges on her debit 
card for having to use it abroad. In response  Nationwide said it would reimburse  any charges 
she may accrue by using  any other  payment method whilst on holiday.   
Miss M says she had planned and budgeted to use her credit  card for the holiday. She says 
this was a safer means for her given where  she had travelled to, and it meant that she didnt 
have to use any funds  from her current account. She had also planned to use the credit card 
to book and pay for a rental car for travel  on part of the trip. But she couldnt do that 
anymore. 
Miss M says this matter  left her feeling  vulnerable  and it meant she couldnt  do things she 
had planned  to do on her holiday of a lifetime. Miss M says she is financially worse off as a 
result. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and they concluded Nationwide  had done nothing 
wrong. So they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with this, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint Miss M, so Ill explain why. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Miss M has told us about the impact this had on her 
once in a lifetime family holiday. And I have no doubt that this matter caused  Miss M a 
degree of inconvenience. But I have to ask myself whether Nationwide did anything  wrong  
by replacing the credit  card and whether the way it did, or didnt, communicate this to Miss M 
meant she wasnt treated  fairly.   
Nationwide says its fraud prevention systems,  which may include intelligence from other 
financial services and law enforcement bodies,  had detected a possibility that Miss Ms credit  
card details had been  compromised. To my mind that means  Miss Ms credit card details  
couldve been in the hands  of a fraudster who in turn could make fraudulent transactions on 
her credit card account. 
Ref: DRN10323062So because of the risk this posed,  Nationwide replaced Miss Ms credit card. Nationwide 
says to minimise any inconvenience  to its customers in this situation,  its process  is to keep 
the previous card active for 21 days. Nationwide say it doesnt call its customers to tell them  
whats going on when  something like this happens  because the level of risk isnt as high, 
compared to when it would need  to. 
The new card and a letter explaining why the card was being replaced was sent out on 
11 April 2019. Miss M says she went on holiday on the 17 April 2019.  So having looked  at 
the dates Miss M went on holiday  and when this replacement card was sent out, its likely 
the letter had not been delivered or was still in the post at the time she left. 
Because Miss M didnt get the letter  or hadnt read it  whilst she was in the UK, she didnt 
know about her card being  replaced and that the old one would now only be active  for 21 
days. So the 21-day activation  period expired whilst Miss M was on holiday.  
Nationwide has a responsibility to safeguard its customers, and its own commercial 
interests, from the possibility of fraud.  And in doing  so it has to respond appropriately to any 
information which suggests fraud  is likely to be carried out. So I think its right that 
Nationwide sought  to replace the card and mitigate against this risk.  
As there was a 21-day  period in which her credit card remained active,  I dont think  
Nationwide have acted  unfairly or unreasonably in the way it went about replacing  the card. 
In most cases this would  normally mean its customers are not without the use of their credit 
facility. And ultimately  Nationwides actions are designed to reduce the potential  of fraud 
being committed. 
In saying the above, Ive also considered  whether  the terms and conditions  of the credit card 
cover such  a scenario.  And Im satisfied  they do. Under section 10 it says:  
 10. Restricting your account and ending your agreement
(e) We may also restrict or suspend the use of your account for any of the reasons 
set out above.  
  
One of the reasons cited above  sub-section (e) in relation  to Nationwide closing an account 
is: (iv) we reasonably believe it is necessary to prevent fraud or unauthorised access 
   
To my mind,  the fact that Miss M was on holiday at the time and couldnt rely on using her 
credit card for payments shed earmarked, was an unfortunate result of Nationwide  trying to 
protect her and it from fraud. I also think its unfortunate the way the events played  out 
meaning Miss M didnt  receive, or wasnt able to read, the letter  Nationwide had sent her just 
before she went on holiday. But that doesnt  mean Nationwide  did anything wrong. Given  
what Ive said about Nationwide acting appropriately, with good reason, and in accordance  
with its terms  and conditions, Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything  wrong.        
I note Miss M says she told Nationwide she was travelling abroad beforehand.  Its not clear  if 
Nationwide would have  known about  the card being  compromised  at the point Miss M says 
she had this conversation. 
Though not explicitly  argued, I think Miss M is saying Nationwide  ought therefore to have 
known to inform  her much quicker, and by more appropriates means, that her card was 
Ref: DRN10323063being replaced. And that the credit card she held at the time would stop working  after the 
21-day period. 
Nationwide says its process for this type of card compromise isnt to call consumers to 
explain what  was happening. It says this was all done by post, whereby a letter explaining 
why the card was being replaced  was also sent out. And this is consistent with what  
happened here. 
Having given this some thought, I wouldnt expect Nationwides  systems  to deal with this 
holiday issue. Though its possible other  people  may find themselves in a similar  unfortunate 
position on holiday, this is likely to be a very small number.
I note Nationwide  had offered to reimburse  any charges Miss M may have incurred by using 
any other payment  method whilst on holiday.  I also note that it has offered to refund the cost 
of any calls Miss M needed to make  to Nationwide because of what  happened. I dont think 
Nationwide needs  to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1032306