K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998  by post. The policy was 
taken out at the same time as Mrs P applied for the credit card. It gave  her protection against  
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint because:
 Mrs P says at no point was it made clear to her that PPI was optional.  But she selected 
it on her credit card application  form signing a separate section to confirm  she wanted  
PPI. Mrs P applied by post with no direct contact with the bank. And Ive found nothing 
on the form that I think could reasonably have led her to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. On balance, I think Bank of Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional, 
and Mrs P chose to take it out.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt need to check if it was 
suitable for her. It was up to Mrs P to decide  whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind  her ability to make her credit  card repayments if she was unable to 
work or lost her job. 
 I agree its possible the information  Bank of Scotland gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. 
Mrs Ps representative says she didnt need  PPI as she was entitled  to six months full 
pay and six months half pay if she was off work sick and she had some savings. But 
the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in addition  to her work benefits  and 
allowed her to use her savings for other  living expenses whilst not working. So, overall, 
based on her circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think  it unlikely Mrs P 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think she would still have  taken  out the policy.
Overall, I dont  think Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the policy to Mrs P. But Bank of Scotland  has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
Ref: DRN13705672Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1370567