K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Mr P applied  for and took out a loan over the internet. At the same time he also took 
out PPI designed to protect his loan repayments  in the event  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy was a regular monthly premium  policy  and it cost just over £55 a 
month.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. They said Santander didnt clearly disclose the cost of 
PPI at the point  Mr P agreed to take it out. Had Santander done  so, they didnt think  Mr P 
would have decided  to take it out.
Santander disagrees  in summary it thinks it did enough, so the complaint comes to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the reasons  below.
This was a sale by internet. Santander  has provided  example internet  loan application 
screen shots that it says  and I accept  on the balance of probabilities  - are reflective of what 
Mr P wouldve  likely seen when he applied  for his loan and PPI in 2009.
Ive looked at the screenshots carefully. Having done so Im not persuaded Mr P was fairly 
and reasonably given clear  information about  the cost of PPI at the point he was asked to 
decide if he wanted it. I say this because on the part of the loan application where  Mr P was 
asked if he wanted  PPI with his loan  a yes or no option  no cost information was 
provided.
Santander says the cost of the PPI couldnt be provided at this point because  it was only 
calculated once the loan had been approved and the interest rate decided. I accept this. But 
I cant see this was explained clearly on the PPI section of the internet  loan application.
It also says Mr P couldve used an online calculator on its website,  which it says wouldve 
given an estimate of what the loan repayment with and without PPI wouldve been.  But 
importantly it also says that the calculator  wasnt a mandatory part of the loan application 
process. So the calculator didnt for example appear  on the PPI section of the loan 
application where Mr P was asked if he wanted  to take it out.
Ref: DRN12226972Im mindful that even  if Mr P had used  the online calculator (I cant  say with any degree of 
certainty whether  he did or not) the figures provided by the calculator were  only estimates 
and not exact  figures. And as Ive already said, Im not persuaded this was made clear in the 
PPI section of the online  loan application. So I dont think Mr P was fairly and reasonably 
made aware  of how much  hed be paying  for the PPI when  he was asked and then chose to 
take it out.
Santander has pointed  to the fact that Mr P wouldve been sent a welcome pack, which  
included a letter giving more details of the PPI, including information  on the cost. And its 
sent us an example of what it says it wouldve looked like. 
I accept its likely Mr P received something like this  after all it contained the credit  
agreement he needed to sign and return to get the loan. But importantly Mr P didnt get this 
information until after hed agreed  to take out the PPI. He wasnt warned to hold off making a 
decision about PPI during  the application  stage  until the welcome pack  with the full details 
was received. And he wasnt asked as part of the pack  to re-confirm his decision  about PPI  
for example by ticking a box or giving a signature. 
So overall I dont  think, based on what Ive seen, Mr P was given  clear,  fair and not 
misleading information about the cost of PPI before he agreed to take it out. 
Im also not persuaded that, more  likely  than not, Mr P wouldve still gone ahead with PPI if 
hed been given clearer information about the cost of the policy.  I say this because in light of 
the cost of PPI and his particular circumstances at the time, I dont think hed have thought 
that the cost and benefit proposition worked  for him. 
It follows that I think Mr P has lost out as a result.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
-Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
-I understand Santander  has already  paid Mr P back  some of the money he paid for 
the PPI (in relation to the commission and profit share it received). If so it can take 
that off from the amount it owes him.
-
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct  
Santander UK Plc to put things right as Ive described immediately above.  I make no other 
award.
Ref: DRN12226973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222697