K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Leeds Building Society  (Leeds)  mis-sold Mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (MPPI) alongside  their mortgage. Specifically they say they were 
misled into thinking  MPPI  was a compulsory part of the mortgage.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision of 
February 2019. Ive attached a copy here because this forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I was minded to make  an award only in relation to the 
high commission Leeds received when  it sold Mr and Mrs M MPPI and I invited both parties 
to let me have anything  they thought was relevant in response.
Leeds said it accepted my findings  and had nothing  further to add.
Mr and Mrs M disagree. They  said they still felt they were led into believing they had to have 
MPPI as part of their mortgage and they broadly  repeated  the points they previously made.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Mr and Mrs M disagree with my findings,  theyve not provided  me with 
anything new or that I did not consider and deal with in my provisional decision. So I see no 
reason to change  my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided that Mr and Mrs M have 
not lost out as a result  of taking out MPPI to the extent that they should  get back everything 
they paid for the policy.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13293782copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Leeds Building Society  (Leeds)  mis-sold Mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (MPPI) alongside  their mortgage. Specifically they say they were 
misled into thinking  MPPI  was a compulsory part of the mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mr and Mrs M applied for and took out a mortgage with Leeds. Mr and Mrs M 
applied for this mortgage through  a broker or introducer. At the same time, they also took out 
a MPPI policy designed to protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mr M  it was in his 
sole name only  couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Leeds initially said Mr and Mrs Ms broker sold the policy so they werent  responsible for any 
information or advice  Mr and Mrs M got about  the policy. It later accepted  the complaint 
saying that it sent Mr and Mrs M information  including an application  for MPPI  when it 
returned their mortgage application to them for signing. It says Mr and Mrs M completed  the 
MPPI application requesting cover in Mr Ms name  only.
The policy was free of charge for the first six months. From month  seven onwards it cost just 
over £25 a month.  The monthly benefit matched Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage payment, which 
at the time was under £500 a month.
Mr and Mrs M took out additional borrowing  in the form of further  advances  over the 
following five years. In 2007 when they borrowed  extra Leeds records show  Mr and Mrs M 
didnt increase the benefit of their MPPI  policy. But they did increase the benefit in 2008 and 
again in 2009 following advice.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said Mr and Mrs M chose to take out MPPI 
and there  was nothing to indicate that theyd lost out as a result  of taking out the policy. They 
also said that, in relation  to the high commission  Leeds received, its payment giving back 
Mr and Mrs M some of what they paid for the policy was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M disagree. In summary  they consider the letter they received from Leeds telling 
them that it was important for their cover to continue was misleading  they felt they had to 
have MPPI  and that it was simply part of their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs M also say the policy 
was unnecessary because they had other insurance cover in place. And theyve provided 
details of this.
Its therefore necessary  for me to decide  the matter.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN13293783As I referred  to above, over the course  of this complaint theres been some confusion  and 
disagreement about how this policy was initially sold in 2004  and who is therefore 
responsible for the complaint. Leeds has provided  a plausible  explanation  for why it thinks 
its responsible and I see no reason at this stage  to disagree. So Im considering this 
complaint on the basis that Leeds provided information only about MPPI to Mr and Mrs M in 
2004  Ive seen no evidence which makes  me think it recommended  the policy  at this time. 
It did however provide  advice and recommend cover subsequently and I will address this 
separately later on.
This means  that for the initial sale in 2004, Leeds  didnt have to ensure the cover  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M. But it did have to provide  them  with enough  clear,  fair and timely 
information so they could  decide for themselves  if it was something they wanted. Ive kept 
this in mind in my consideration  of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms key complaint is that it was not made clear to them  MPPI was optional. They 
say Leeds misled them into believing MPPI was a compulsory part of their mortgage. And 
theyve referred to a letter  Leeds sent them, which they say demonstrates why they felt this 
and why they thought  they couldnt  cancel it.
Ive therefore  considered  this matter very carefully.
The letter Mr and Mrs M refer to was sent to them  by Leeds in October 2004  shortly before 
the six month free-period of cover was due to end. It said the following:
A very important benefit currently applies to your mortgage and provides Mortgage Payment 
Protection insurance cover. The Society  has been able to provide this benefit to you free of 
charge for the first 6 months and it is important that cover is maintained,  now that this period 
is drawing to a close.
So that you do not lose the protection provided by this cover,  your payment has been 
amended to £X with effect  from November. This payment now includes your monthly  
Mortgage Payment  Protection insurance  premium of £X
I do hope you feel that the free cover  period, for this important insurance, has been  of benefit 
to you.
If you wish to make any amendments  to your MPPI cover, or require any help or information  
generally concerning  your insurance  policies, please  feel free to contact our Insurance Team 
on..
While I accept that, if read in isolation and if this was the only communication  about the 
policy its possible this might suggest  Mr and Mrs M had to have MPPI  it did say it is 
important that cover  is maintained. But I dont think it is fair to read this letter in isolation  
I think it needs the context  of what took place when Mr and Mrs M first took out the policy.
Firstly Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application  they completed did not make any reference to 
MPPI  there was no section in the application where it was mentioned or where it could be 
applied for. It didnt make any reference  to it being an integral part of the mortgage.  To apply 
for MPPI it required completion  of a separate application. And Leeds  has provided a copy of 
the application it says it sent to Mr and Mrs M and which  they completed and returned to set 
up the policy.
Ref: DRN13293784The application was headed: Protecting your payments  Mortgage Payment Protection 
(free cover for six months
It then went on to say: The Society  strongly  recommends  that you should protect your home 
and your mortgage payment by arranging a payment protection policy. To underline just how 
essential we believe  this product to be, we will make  no charge for providing  the cover  
during the first 6 months of your mortgage.  At the end of that period, the low monthly 
premiums will be added  to your mortgage payment.
Section A, B or C below should be completed.
The application did say Leeds strongly recommends  you should protect your mortgage 
payment. But Im mindful there  was no interaction with a member of Leeds  staff where it 
might be possible to place  undue pressure or influence a consumers decision  this was a 
sale by paper. The words  also dont say that it recommends  its own policy   it says it 
recommends a policy be arranged. And the application went  on to provide three  sections 
which could be completed  A, B or C.
Section A (the section  Mr and/or Mrs M completed) was the section which needed  
completion if Leeds MPPI was required.  This asked about the level of cover  required, which  
party to the mortgage wanted cover and the amount of benefit required. A signature was 
required at the end.
Section B said it needed completing if alternative arrangements for cover had already been 
made asking  for the insurer/policy details. And Section C said: If you are not making 
arrangements to protect your mortgage, please  complete the section below and sign
So while Leeds  might  have recommended cover be arranged, the application didnt say 
MPPI had to be taken  out to get the mortgage  or that it had to be with Leeds. The application 
provided a section to complete if MPPI wasnt needed  either  because  the applicant had 
chosen cover elsewhere or no cover was required.
Given that Mr and Mrs M completed Section A to take out the cover, I think  they chose to 
take it in Mr Ms name because they were  interested in protecting  their mortgage  payments. 
I think they did so also understanding that MPPI was being  offered free for the first six 
months and that they would have to pay for it once this period ended.
And looking at the evidence  as a whole, Im not persuaded that it shows  Mr and Mrs M had 
to have MPPI  I think Leeds gave them a choice and Mr and Mrs M elected to take it out by 
completing the required section on the separate application.
Because of how the MPPI application described  things at the time they applied  for it, I dont 
think Leeds misled  them  when it sent them the letter prior to the free period ending. And in 
light of all of the evidence available, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to have 
believed they had to continue with the policy and they couldnt cancel it based  on the 
contents of this letter  notwithstanding the fact that I see no reason why they would want  to 
cancel it given I think it was appropriate  for them. Ill expand  on this later on. The letter in my 
view reminded  them that the free period was coming to an end and that the cover was now 
chargeable  things  they were told at the application  stage.
While Im cautious of referring  to subsequent  events  to support a view of what I think 
happened or was understood before  Im mindful in this particular  case  that Mr and Mrs M 
Ref: DRN13293785had further interactions  with Leeds  in the form of requests for additional borrowing. On one 
of those occasions  in 2007  Leeds has a copy of the mortgage offer letter for the further 
advance. I can see here that it said:
You are not obliged  to take out any insurance through Leeds Building  Society
And it went on to detail their existing  MPPI  policy under the heading Optional 
Insuranceinsurance that you do not have to take out through Leeds Building Society
In addition to this, Leeds has a copy of a suitability letter,  which shows that Mr and Mrs M 
had a discussion about their protection and insurance requirements  for their mortgage. And 
this records that Mr and Mrs M were happy with their existing MPPI policy.
It strikes me that given their existing  policy was described as being optional  if this didnt 
accord with their understanding of events  previously, I would have expected them  to have  
questioned it and raised concerns with Leeds  at this point. I wouldnt have expected to see a 
record of them saying  they were happy  with their policy.
So overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M thought  they had to have MPPI. From the 
evidence presented, it seems to me that they chose  and agreed to take it out because  when  
Leeds offered  it to them they decided they wanted  to protect  their mortgage payments.
But the evidence  available doesnt  show that Mr and Mrs M were given all of the information 
about the policy they needed in a clear  and timely manner so they could make an informed 
decision. For example  I cant see that the significant exclusions and limitations of cover were  
clearly drawn to their attention, including the exclusions around pre-existing medical 
conditions. So its possible that Leeds didnt do all that it should  have  to properly inform 
Mr and Mrs M.
That said,  this doesnt mean Mr and Mrs M should  automatically get back what  they paid for 
the policy  I need  to go on and consider if and to what extent theyve lost out as a result of 
the things not done.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out  I think  they would most  likely 
have still decided to go ahead and take out MPPI. I say this because I dont think the policy 
differed greatly  from what they expected based on the information they were  given  and 
because:
Mr M was eligible for the cover.
Mr and Mrs M chose  to take out the cover  as I found above,  so they must have been 
interested in the type of cover  it provided.
Mr M was in good health,  so he wouldnt have been affected by the significant limitations 
and exclusions of cover, for example for pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr M didnt have  much sick pay to fall back on and Mr and Mrs M latterly said they didnt 
have any savings.  So I think MPPI was appropriate for Mr M and it would have been 
useful to both Mr and Mrs M  it would have  played  a useful part in helping to protect 
their home if things went wrong.
Mr and Mrs M say they already had insurance  in place   what appears  to be an income 
replacement policy taken out around 2001  so they didnt  need  MPPI. But in 2004 when 
they originally took out MPPI  they did so knowing they had this other insurance in place 
 they didnt receive advice from Leeds at this stage.
Ref: DRN13293786But in any event I dont  think  the existence  of their income replacement  policy  meant 
MPPI was inappropriate for them. It appears  the income replacement policy had a 
waiting period of around three  months, so wouldnt have paid out until after this period of 
time. And having  a policy to pay the mortgage payment meant that when the other policy  
did pay out, it couldve replaced Mr Ms income needed to pay other ongoing  household  
and personal expenditure (typically these policies  paid out up to a maximum of 70/75% 
of normal income.) Its also the case that MPPI provided unemployment cover.
I cant see that the cost of the policy (after the six month  free period) was clearly set out 
at the time based on the evidence  provided.  But I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs M went 
ahead without knowing anything  about it. And in any event  it appears  to have been 
affordable.
The policy was a regular monthly  premium policy, so it could have  been  cancelled at any 
time and without penalty.
Mr and Mrs M borrowed money  again in 2008  and 2009. In 2009 Leeds  records show 
Mr and Mrs M received advice from Leeds and a recommendation was made to increase the 
cover on their MPPI  policy. From  the suitability letter and file notes Leeds has provided, it 
appears the adviser understood  some, if not all, of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  for 
example I can see reference  to their income and the fact that Mrs M worked part-time.  I can 
also see the adviser recommended that cover  should be joint, split according to their 
incomes. But the letter says Mr and Mrs M decided to retain  all the cover  in Mr Ms name as 
the main wage earner.
While I cant say whether Leeds  properly advised  and informed Mr and Mrs M at this time, 
based on the evidence and information provided   even  if I was to conclude  that it didnt and 
I decided Leeds  didnt act fairly and reasonably towards them, for the same reasons Ive set 
out above, I think the recommendation for cover  was suitable. And I dont think  theyd have 
changed their minds about  the recommendation had Leeds  done more.
In conclusion and in light of what Ive detailed  above, Im minded to conclude that despite the 
fact Leeds might not have done everything it should  have when it sold MPPI to 
Mr and Mrs M in 2004 and later on when  they increased cover, I dont think  theyve suffered 
loss to the extent  that they should get back everything they paid for the policy.  This is 
because I think the cover was suitable  or appropriate for their needs and circumstances and 
theres nothing that I think they would have been put off by if Leeds had done or told them  
any more.
But Leeds  Building Society has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M 
because:
Leeds Building Society got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium)  so it should  have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because it didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.
To put that right, Leeds Building  Society  has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive provisionally decided  that Mr and Mrs M havent  lost 
out as a result of taking out MPPI to the extent that Leeds Building Society should pay back  
all of the cost of the policy to them.
Ref: DRN13293787But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  intend to make any other award.
The parties should now let me have anything in response to my provisional decision before 
[date] so I can consider  them before making my final decision.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1329378