K820x#14Complaint
Ms H complains that MYJAR  Limited  (MyJar) was irresponsible in its lending  to her.
Background
Based on the information, MyJar provided Ms H with an instalment loan for £550 in June 
2018. The loan was repayable over 12 months with monthly repayments  of around £85. 
Ms H says that the loan wasnt affordable and that had proper checks been carried  out 
MyJar would  have  realised she had other  debts  and that the loan shouldnt have been 
provided. She says she is in arrears with other creditors and that this issue is having a 
negative impact on her health.  
MyJar says that when Ms H registered with it she completed an online application and 
provided information including her monthly income  and expenses.  It says that before 
providing a loan it carries  out checks of public  databases and a credit  check  which is also 
used to validate the information it has been  provided. It says its checks  were  proportionate. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She didnt think  that there was anything  in the 
information provided by Ms H to MyJar or other  information MyJar should have been  aware  
of that meant further checks were required 
Ms H didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said that although MyJar asked about her 
monthly credit repayments  it wasnt made clear to her to include information about other 
short term loans she had as well as her longer term commitments.  She said she was on a 
low income and the repayments took a substantial portion  of this. She said that had proper 
checks been carried out MyJar would have realised  her financial constraints.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MyJar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Ms H 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MyJar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
Ref: DRN16641382the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MyJar was required to establish 
whether Ms H could  sustainably repay  her loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H was only provided with one loan. She has said that her income was low at the time and 
the repayments took a substantial portion of this. I have looked at the information provided 
and can see her monthly income  was recorded  as £1,800. Her expenses  recorded for 
housing, credit and other expenditure  totalled  £1,000. The loan was repayable through  
instalments which  were around £85 each month.  So while I note Ms Hs comments about the 
size of the repayments compared to her income,  I do not find that in this case  the repayment 
amounts meant that further checks  should have been carried  out.
I say this because  MyJar has explained  the verification of income  it carried  out and the data 
sources it uses alongside the information provided  by Ms H in order  to assess  the 
affordability of the repayments. As this was Ms Hs first loan and given the size of the 
repayments compared to her monthly income  I find that these checks  were  sufficient.  As 
these suggested  the repayments  were affordable I do not find that I can uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1664138