K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Prosperity  Independent  Financial Advisors and Stockbrokers Limited  
(Prosperity) werent clear when discussing their fees.
 
background
For ease, in this decision  I will refer to Prosperity when talking about its agents. 
Mr T was approaching retirement  and due to receive  a redundancy package,  so he 
contacted Prosperity  for financial advice after meeting one of its agents  on holiday.  
Mr T discussed with Prosperity over email, his current financial position  and his objectives in 
terms of investing  to plan for his retirement. Prosperity asked to meet Mr T and sent him 
information on their fees.
Mr T says Prosperity tried to charge  him £250  for the meeting. But the information it sent him 
said the first meeting  would be free. 
The following  month, Mr T met Prosperity  at his place of work. After the meeting, Mr T says 
he received an email saying he owed Prosperity  £750 in fees regardless of whether he took 
its investment advice or not. Mr T says this caused  him stress  and the worry meant he lost 
sleep. 
Mr T called Prosperity the following day. Prosperity  told Mr T that he didnt owe any fees, as 
he hadnt signed a client agreement. Mr T complained to Prosperity as he felt it had been 
unclear about  its fees for the initial meeting and in its subsequent email. Mr T felt he wasnt  
given correct advice  during the meeting and the agent hadnt discussed different  options 
available to him. So, he wanted  to be compensated for the stress this had all caused.
In response, Prosperity said Mr T had been  given explanations for the fees for the initial 
meeting and indicated he was happy  to proceed with it. Prosperity said the £750  fee related  
to a further stage  after the initial meeting, which  had already been explained to Mr T in the 
written information it provided. So, as Mr T had decided not to proceed as a client, he didnt  
owe any fees.   
Mr T remained unhappy and so brought his complaint  to our service. Our investigator felt 
there had been  some  confusion about the purpose of the first meeting, but Mr T had been 
given a level of service above what should  be expected in a free meeting and still wasnt 
charged for it. He was satisfied Prosperity  sent Mr T information on its fees and didnt think  it 
had made  any substantial errors. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigator as he said he felt pressured  that if he didnt go ahead  
with Prosperitys advice, he would have to pay a fee. So, the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12780392The issue  to decide  here is whether Prosperity gave Mr T unclear or misleading information 
to make him think he owed Prosperity  fees for a consultation he had with one of its advisors.  
Mr T felt Prosperitys email was misleading  when it said there would  be a fee of £250  for the 
first meeting.  This was because Prosperity  said to Mr T, regarding the meeting I will make a 
cost fee charge of £250.00  to you for this. However,  Prosperity also sent a client  and fee 
agreement to Mr T which had information about Prosperitys fees. That said We offer the 
first meeting,  free  at no cost to you, to discuss your needs  and our services
Prosperity have said that the aim of the initial free  meeting is to gather information  about a 
potential clients objectives and discuss the services  that they could offer. And I think  this is 
where the problems  began. Ill explain why. 
Mr T had already met Prosperitys  agent  and had party explained his financial position and 
objectives by email. And so, it appears  Prosperitys expectation was to meet in order  to 
provide financial  advice  and to charge for that service.
But Mr T was clear  in his reply that he wasnt expecting to pay for the first meeting. 
Prosperity said in its final response  letter to Mr T that the question  around fees for the initial 
meeting was soon  resolved after its advisor  provided an explanation  to Mr T. But, having 
read the emails,  Im not persuaded  this was the case. I say this because, at no point in the 
emails did Prosperity clarify  the purpose  of the initial meeting or say that it wouldnt charge 
the £250 fee. 
It appears that the meeting went  beyond  what would normally  be discussed during a free 
meeting, as Prosperity started to gather  a detailed account of Mr Ts finances as well as 
discussing the types of funds Mr T could invest in through  Prosperity. 
I think Prosperity couldve been  clearer in their communications around the purpose of the 
initial meeting  and its cost, but I dont think they were intentionally misleading or trying  to 
charge Mr T for a service that shouldve been free. And in the end, Prosperity didnt charge 
Mr T a fee for this meeting. So, Mr T didnt suffer any financial loss.
Mr T says Prosperity shouldve discuss the benefits  or alternatives of pensions  compared to 
investments and found the meeting to be lacking in useful information. Mr T also believes he 
was given incorrect information about  the pension protection fund. Mr T says,  by not 
including this information, Prosperity broke the rules it must follow. I dont know exactly what  
was discussed  during  the meeting. But I dont think the purpose of the meeting was to 
provide in depth financial advice to Mr T, as he hadnt signed the client  agreement  and 
become a client of Prosperitys at that time.  So, I dont think it would be fair to say Prosperity  
shouldve given this advice during the first meeting  without being able to charge for its 
services.
  
Following the meeting  Prosperity emailed Mr T an overview of what had been discussed and 
the types of investment it would include on a suitability  report  of recommendations.  
Prosperity said, with regard  to the suitability report of recommendations, in respect of 
whichever option  you decide on, this charge is £750,  which is charged should you not 
proceed, and if you do proceed, then this charge is waived. 
Mr T felt this wording meant he owed Prosperity £750 - whether he continued to use its 
services or not. I can appreciate that this would have been  a worry for Mr T and may have  
Ref: DRN12780393caused him to lose sleep  as he said. However,  I dont think thats  what  Prosperity meant  in 
the email, as the fee was for a recommendations report that would only be produced if Mr T 
instructed Prosperity  to do so. Prosperity  finished the email by saying I would appreciate 
you letting me know on how you would like to proceed, and should  you have any further  
questions. So, I think Prosperity were waiting for an answer from Mr T, if he wished for them  
to carry out the work in producing a recommendations report.
Prosperity had already  sent Mr T information on their fees which  said We will ask you to 
sign the Fee Agreement letter or Confirmation of Fees Document to confirm  your agreement  
to the fees before any work begins. As Prosperity hadnt created a report  of 
recommendations for Mr T and, as he hadnt  signed an agreement  with Prosperity, I think  
Mr T ought to have known  that he didnt owe these fees to Prosperity at that time. 
Mr T says he called Prosperity the following day, and it confirmed he didnt owe it any fees.  
It explained the fees were only payable if Mr T had signed the client  agreement  to proceed 
with the work. So, I think Prosperity clarified, within a short  timeframe, that Mr T neednt 
worry that he owed  fees when he didnt.
In conclusion, I think that there was a level of confusion on both sides  as to the purpose and 
the extent of what the first meeting would cover. And I think  Prosperity  couldve  been  clearer  
in its communications  around this point. However, Mr T appeared happy  to continue to 
arrange the meeting, during which Prosperity  gave some idea of the options available  to Mr 
T. And in the end, Prosperity clarified that Mr T didnt owe fees and Mr T wasnt charged 
anything.
I know that this will come as a disappoint  to Mr T, however I dont think Prosperity did 
anything significantly wrong and Mr T didnt suffer any financial losses  due to Prosperitys 
actions. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Prosperity to do anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1278039