K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  Bank  Plc mis-sold him a regular premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection with a credit card.
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in September  1997. The policy  
cost no more than 78p per £100  of the outstanding  card balance  and covered  Mr G in the 
event he wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful 
claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding  balance at the point of claim, until the balance 
was cleared or he was able to work. The policy would also pay the outstanding balance up to 
£10,000 in the event  of Mr Gs death. 
Bank of Scotland says the PPI finished in October  2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale so it not only had to provide Mr G with 
enough information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for him based on his needs  and circumstances 
at the time. 
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr G he had a choice about  PPI?
Bank of Scotland has provided  a copy of Mr Gs credit card application form which  shows  a 
tick by the PPI on the form indicating he has chosen  to take it out, and he has signed the 
application form. Although the form is pre-printed,  it wasnt unusual for a business to type in 
the form following  a discussion in a branch. And I see that Mr G and Bank of Scotland  have 
signed the form on the same day, which indicates to me that its likely  they were  together 
when Mr G signed the form, and that the form reflected the discussion that had been  had. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Bank  of Scotland presented the policy to Mr G as optional 
and he chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr G properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr G lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland advised  Mr G with 
reasonable care and skill. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that the PPI policy was suitable  for him. 
Ref: DRN14430372He was eligible  for the policy and he has told us that in 1997 he was in good health, in 
employment, and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr G says he had some occupational sick pay and savings that would have helped him if 
things went wrong.  But  the policy would have  paid out in addition to his sick pay and until he 
recovered or the balance was cleared. It would also pay out if he lost his job until he returned 
to his employment or his balance was cleared. So I think Mr G had a need  for his cover  and 
it would  have been useful to him if he found  himself unable to work.  It would  have meant he 
didnt have to spend his savings and would have helped him financially at what would be a 
difficult time.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  was unaffordable  for Mr G. The 
PPI transactions  and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements, and in 
the event that the costs werent acceptable to Mr G, or became unaffordable,  he couldve 
cancelled either  policy at any point without penalty.  But he didnt for many years.
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland provided  Mr G with 
sufficient information  to make an informed decision  about his PPI. But as Ive decided above 
the policy was suitable for him, I think on the balance of probabilities  its unlikely that more 
information about the PPI wouldve caused him to decide not to take the PPI out. 
So overall, while I think there mayve been  some failings in the sale of the PPI, I think its 
more likely than not, that Mr G had a choice and chose to take out the PPI policy, that it was 
suitable for him and I dont think he would have  come  to a different decision and turned 
down the PPI if Bank of Scotland had given him more information. So I dont think  Mr G lost 
out as a result of anything Bank  of Scotland did wrong when it sold him PPI.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr G has told us that on the same  day he took out this 
credit card PPI, he took out a loan with PPI cover, and that Bank of Scotland  has refunded 
him the PPI on the loan. I dont know why Bank  of Scotland has refunded the loan PPI, but it 
this service would  look at other issues related  to PPI on a loan as opposed  to a credit card. 
And Im satisfied that Ive looked at the PPI sold with Mr Gs credit card in the appropriate 
way based on the evidence both parties have given.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Gs other  comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr G has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with his credit card, so I make  no award.
Ref: DRN14430373Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1443037