K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mrs M says AXA France IARD  (AXA)  mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information  
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because AXA has provided us with a copy of the application  form 
when Mrs M took the store card in September 2000. Mrs M declined  the cover  at that 
time. AXA told us that the policy was sold over the phone in December 2000.  Weve  
seen telephone scripts from November 2003  which all suggest the optional nature  of the 
policy would have  been made  clear.  So, it seems  more  likely that Mrs M agreed to the 
PPI and did so knowing she did not have to take it. 
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. Mrs M has provided no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  I have seen no evidence  of a detailed 
recommendation having been  made to Mrs M in this sale.  So, considering  all the 
submissions made  in this case, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Mrs M 
to the contrary,  it seems most  likely that AXA didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs M. So, it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs 
M enough clear and timely information  so she could decide for herself  it was right for her.
Ref: DRN10561342Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs M. Mrs M told us she 
had only been  employed for two years but would have received full pay for a whole year 
as company sick pay. We asked Mrs M for evidence to support  such  generous sick pay 
and received none. So, whilst I think Mrs M would have received some sick pay, I think it 
would have been less than a year at her full rate of pay. This was the same conclusion  
reached by our adjudicator in their assessment  of the case and has not been queried  by 
either party. The PPI could have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms sick pay and for longer 
than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay, most likely. Mrs M told us 
she had some death in service benefits at work, but this wouldnt have helped her if she 
was too ill to work or lost her job. Mrs M told us she would have been entitled to a 
payment in the event she was made redundant. But considering her short service at that 
time this was likely  to have been  modest  in nature. And the policy would have  reduced  
her reliance  on that payment in the event she lost her job. And Mrs M told us she had 
only modest savings she could use to make  her repayments in the event of long-term  ill 
health, or if she lost her job. Although  Mrs M says she had a medical condition some  
time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing 
medical condition  exclusion wouldve caused  her to change  her mind about  taking  out 
the policy. I say this because Mrs M told us her broken arm occurred the year of the sale 
and was put in plaster. Mrs M has provided  no detailed testimony about the condition 
and theres no testimony that it had caused  her ongoing issues or any time off work 
either at the time it happened  or in the intervening time before the sale, such that she 
may have thought  this to be the main reason she might need to be off work  for over the 
30 days required to start making  a claim under this policy.  It also looks  like the cover was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs M would have declined the cover had AXA done 
anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons  to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken  out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised  a number  of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN10561343I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Ms complaint   so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1056134