K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd allowed a payment that created a negative balance  on his 
account. He also complains about  difficulty contacting  Revolut to find out what was going on.
background
Mr K has a prepaid card with Revolut that he uses to make a monthly overseas payment. He 
unfreezes and freezes the card either  side of the payment.  
In June 2018 the payment  failed,  and the merchant  tried to take it again. Revolut allowed the 
second payment,  and the first was eventually successful too. But the two payments meant 
Mr Ks account had a negative balance.
The additional payment was refunded to Mr K from the merchant. But in the meantime, Mr K 
had difficulty contacting Revolut to find out what was going  on.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. From what hed seen, he 
thought it was likely that the first payment failed because of technical issues experienced by 
Revolut.
The investigator said Revolut should  pay £26 to cover  Mr Ks overseas phone  calls, and £50 
for the trouble and upset  caused. Revolut didnt agree with the investigators conclusions  
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Revolut says its technical issues didnt occur until after the day on which Mr K tried to make 
his payment. But I note that when Mr K tried to find out what had happened in an online chat 
with Revolut, he was told:
Recently, our third party processor experienced an issue affecting card paymentsThe  
issue was that out payment processor was experiencing  severe  latency which was delaying  
data being extracted from merchants. Because it was taking too long to pull the data, this 
caused card payments to time out and then ultimately fail. We are genuinely sorry for any 
trouble this has caused you.
Revolut gave the same information to Mr K in its written response to the complaint he made. 
So despite  what  Revolut  has since  told me, on balance I think  its likely  that the first payment 
failed because of technical issues experienced by its third party processor.
I accept that the accounts terms and conditions mean Revolut  isnt responsible  for loss 
arising from reasons  beyond its control, including the failure of a third party.  
Ref: DRN16208132But when Mr K tried to find out what had happened, I can see that it was difficult for him to 
make contact with Revolut and to get a proper  explanation of what  was going on with his 
account.
So in the circumstances, I think the compensation suggested by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that Revolut Ltd should  pay £76 to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1620813