K822xcomplaint
Ms T and Mr T complain  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc told Ms T that Mr T had 
changed the statement preferences on their joint account.
background 
Out of the blue,  Ms T received a letter telling her, amongst  other things that Mr T had opted 
to receive electronic statements  only. Ms T contacted RBS. It turned out it couldnt show  that 
Mr T had made any such request. It agreed  to give her £30 worth  of vouchers to make up for 
this.
But then Ms T received  other  letters saying the same thing again. She complained but RBS 
chose not to respond.
Dissatisfied and feeling as if she was being  treated as is she was invisible Ms T came to 
our service  together with Mr T.
Our investigator looked into things for them.  In summary he thought  RBS should do more for 
Ms T and Mr T. He took on board that RBS was unable  to show  that Mr T had given any 
instructions to it despite what it had said. Rather  at around the time the letters  were sent 
RBS had decided  to move its online customers to paperless statements. Our investigator 
thought this is most likely  what caused it to send the letters. 
Further, RBS said it had emailed its customers before changing them  over to electronic 
statements only. Our investigator thought it was likely it had sent these emails to Ms T and 
Mr T. Our investigator  sent Ms T what he said was a copy of the email. 
Our investigator noted that RBS had not responded to Ms T after it sent its final response 
letter as it seems it did not think it needed to. It seems it thought, wrongly, that the 
explanation and award it had already given had satisfied Ms T. 
Taking everything into account  our investigator  said he thought RBS ought  to pay Ms T and 
Mr T £50 in total,  in  addition to the £30 in vouchers, to make up for its mistake and the 
distress and inconvenience it had most likely  caused  them.
RBS accepted this outcome. Ms T on behalf of herself and Mr T did not. She pointed  out 
neither one of them  had ever received the email. Neither did what  we sent her look like a 
copy of an email. Further she suggested  we had not got to the bottom of the issues. 
Moreover, none of this explained why RBS said it was following Mr Ts instructions. She 
suggested we had allowed ourselves to be hoodwinked by RBS.
We could go no further at this stage, as a result I was asked to take a fresh look at this 
complaint and reach a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19076512Where there is a dispute about what happened  (as is the case,  in part, here), I have based 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what  I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I can well understand  why Ms T appears to remain very unhappy about what happened  
here. She was told Mr T asked RBS to do something when RBS cant demonstrate  that he 
did. Then the explanation that she got from RBS didnt fully explain everything that had gone 
wrong. Then  to make matters worse, once  it told her it had sorted it, the same thing 
happened again. Finally, as far as she could  tell it ignored her when she complained  again.
The main  thing that appears  to bother Ms T is why RBS said Mr T instructed  it to act. 
Nothing I have  seen explains why RBS chose  to tell Ms T it was Mr T who asked for 
paperless statements. I cant tell her with absolute certainty why this happened and I dont 
think any further digging  by us would get to the bottom of this. We have asked RBS about 
this point and I have no reason to believe it has further information  it has not sent us. That 
said, the timing of the letters  suggests  that what started this off is the corporate decision 
RBS took about  paperless statements. 
I realise Ms T says the timing does  not add up. And she cant believe it when RBS tells us it 
cant pinpoint the exact date it made its decision to take this approach. But I think  this lack of 
precision on this point  is not surprising in an organisation of this size. Around  the time it sent 
the letters to her it had also decided to move its online customers  to paperless  statements. 
On balance I think that is the reason  she was sent the letters.
We sent Ms T a copy of a document which we said was the copy of the email they were 
most likely sent before  RBS sent her the letters. She responded as follows.  To be frank  this 
has no indication or resemblance to the format or the appearance  of an email.  What we 
should have said is the document we sent her is not a copy  of the email itself.  Rather  the 
document is information that shows that RBS intended to send an email to them as online 
customers. The most relevant part of the document says.
What you need to know?
Customers will be sent an email from 3 to 5 July 2018 informing them of the change and its 
benefits e.g. reducing paper waste, ability to access 7 years of statements  and being  able to 
view their statements as soon as they are available
Given that RBS said it was intending  to send out this email and given this was its policy, I 
think it is more likely  than not that the emails were sent. Ive not been told that Ms T and 
Mr T didnt  have email addresses registered with RBS. I have not been  told that RBS had 
incorrect email  details  for them. Or that it received a notification that emails sent to them 
bounced back. I cant say why the emails might  not have been received but I cant fairly  
blame RBS for that in the circumstances.
RBS didnt respond to Ms Ts most recent  letters. That left Ms T feeling  ignored. I think 
RBS should reasonably have realised that Ms T was expecting a response  and when she 
didnt get one that would most likely increase her distress. 
I dont believe this complaint is about  money  and any amount I award no matter what  the 
figure is unlikely to make things right from Ms T and Mr Ts point of view. Rather, it seems to 
me it is about Ms T receiving information that RBS could not back  up, getting a partial  
Ref: DRN19076513explanation and then none at all, as I have  said above. It is  also about  RBS not apologising 
to Ms T and Mr T.
That said,  I dont think what RBS has agreed to so far is enough to take into account  the 
impact of its mistake on Ms T and Mr T. So far it has offered £50 and paid £30 in vouchers. I 
think in total it should  jointly pay Ms T and Mr T in total £150 in addition to the £30 in 
vouchers.
To be clear this is not an award of £150 to Ms T and another separate  £150 to Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay Ms T and Mr T £150 in 
total for the mistake it made and the distress  and inconvenience this mistake  most likely 
caused them  to experience. This £150 is in addition to the £30 in vouchers it tells us it has 
already sent.
It must pay the £150 within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms T and Mr T accept my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £150 from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Ms T and Mr T can reclaim the tax if they are 
able to.
Ms T and Mr T should refer back to it if they are unsure of the approach  it has taken and 
both parties should  contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know  more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1907651