K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the valuation  Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  placed  on his car 
under his motor  insurance policy after it was declared beyond economical repair. He wants 
an increase in the settlement.
background
Mr Ms car was declared a total loss following  an accident. Admiral offered him £16,520, less 
the policy excess, as the market value of the car at the time of loss. But Mr M said it would 
cost him £25,000 to replace his car. He commissioned  an independent report  to support this 
but Admiral declined to consider this. It said it wouldnt increase its offer as it said this was 
the top market  value  for the car.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Admiral  
had offered Mr M the top value  provided by the motor trade guides available  at the time. She 
thought a higher valuation Mr M had found in a newer guide would be excluded  as it was out 
of step with other guide valuations. She thought maintenance of the car wouldnt increase  its 
value. 
Mr M replied that hed provided an independent  report from an expert and he thought this 
should be given  further consideration. He said his car was rare and desirable  and so the 
guide prices were inaccurate. He said the car hadnt  been  modified, which  further increased 
its value.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M would want the highest possible valuation  for his car. Admiral  
offered him £16,520 which it said was the highest  value shown in the motor  trade  guides  at 
the time for a car in showroom condition and with a full service  history.  But Mr M 
commissioned an independent  expert  who provided  a report estimating the cars  value  at 
£24,222.50. This is quite a discrepancy so I can understand that Mr M is dissatisfied with 
Admirals offer.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
I can see that Mr Ms policy  provides  for the cars  market value at the time of loss in the case 
of it being a write off. The market value is defined as the cost of replacing the car with 
another of the same  make, model, age, mileage and condition based on market prices.  I 
have seen policies  for rare cars that provide an agreed value in the case of total loss. But 
this wasnt the case  here.
Ref: DRN10949402The investigator thought Admirals valuation  was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how 
she reached this conclusion. Mr M said his car was rare, but I can see that valuations  are 
provided for the make and model in all four guides.  So I think  it was fair for Admiral  to 
consider these.
I can see that the investigator  checked the four guides  we use for Mr Ms car. These gave 
valuations of £11,145, £16,100,  £16,520 and £20,656. Our approach is that where there are 
outlying valuations,  we think its reasonable for an insurer to disregard them. So I think 
Admiral could reasonably  consider the two middle valuations. Alternatively, we would also 
consider that an insurer could  take an average of the four valuations. This would have given 
a valuation of about £16,100. Admiral offered Mr M the highest of the middle two valuations,  
which I think was fair and reasonable.
Mr M provided a detailed engineers report on the condition of his car. Admiral  said it didnt 
consider this as it was outside its approach. I think that was fair and reasonable as Admiral 
considered Mr Ms claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.  I dont think  Admiral  
was required by the policy to consider the engineers view. 
I can see that Mr M maintained his car. But we wouldnt consider that this increased  its 
value. I can also see that Admiral looked at whether the cars optional  extras  made a 
difference to its value.  But these didnt increase the market guides valuations.  
So I think Admiral has offered Mr M a fair and reasonable settlement for the loss of his car. 
This was made according to our approach  which we this is fair to consumers and insurers.  
So I cant say that Admiral has done  anything  wrong  or require  it to increase its offer.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1094940