K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment she disputes from her 
bank account.
background
Miss G contacted Barclays to say that she didnt authorise a payment for £1,100  made from 
her savings account using mobile banking on 13 July 2017. She initially wrote  to Barclays  to 
say that the money had gone  to an account that she thought was for a travel company. But 
she then said that she didnt make the payment and her phone  had been out of her 
possession while being repaired  from 12 to 20 July 2017. She was also unhappy that her 
accounts, cards and online access remained blocked until September 2017  and that new 
cards were  sent to her old address.
Barclays said that it wouldnt be refunding the payment. It was made using Miss Gs security  
details and with a device she had used  for genuine  payments. There  was no evidence  of 
how her mobile banking passcode had been  discovered by someone else. It accepted  that 
once it had completed its fraud investigation  it hadnt  told Miss G how to arrange for her 
accounts to be unblocked. This meant  she had to go to a branch several times to get cash 
and staff there didnt  help her with getting  permanent access  to her accounts  either.  Barclays  
paid her £300 for the inconvenience  caused.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Miss G had no evidence 
that her phone wasnt working  and was being repaired and had given inconsistent 
information about the way this payment was made. To make  this payment her passcode  
would have been required and a text message  would have been sent to the phone.  And a 
genuine payment  of £20 was made that day from her account using the same device and IP 
address.
Miss G didnt  agree. She said that given the time that had passed she didnt think she had 
any more evidence but would try and find something. She said that just before she put her 
phone in for repairs she paid a bill of £20. The money shed lost was very important as she 
wanted to use it for pay for her accommodation. She was very unhappy at the way Barclays 
had blocked her cards and accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a passcode. And if it wasnt  authorised Miss G 
wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
Ref: DRN19578552So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the mobile phone and security 
passcode used  for these  payments?
-Did Miss G authorise the payment on the account.  
Im satisfied from the available evidence from Barclays that this payment followed a log in to 
mobile banking  to Miss Gs accounts  using her passcode and the setting up of a new 
beneficiary. So I consider  this payment  was authenticated.
The issue  is whether Miss G consented  to it. The evidence Ive seen shows that the payment 
was made  from the same  device Miss G had been using for genuine transactions.  And that 
included the one for £20 that she says she made  before her phone  was out of her 
possession. The same IP address was also used for both payments and there were no other 
devices registered  to access her account.  There were no other specific  payments disputed  
and one for £20 was logged by Barclays as being made after the payment of £1,100.
Miss G first indicated in a letter she wrote  to Barclays that she had been the victim of a 
scam. And that the money hadnt  gone  to a genuine travel company  as she seemed to 
intend. Im struggling  to understand  how thats consistent with her later saying she never  
made the payment at all. And shes not clarified that for our investigator.
I understand shes nothing now to show her phone was being  repaired but I note she also 
didnt provide anything to show  to Barclays at the time she reported the payment. The period 
of repair  was long based on what she says. Even if her phone  was out of her possession as 
she says theres no explanation  of how an unknown third party would have discovered her 
passcode and made this payment.
Miss G has been clear that she didnt give that passcode out or allow  anyone  else to use her 
account. So I cant see that the payment could  say have  been  made  by someone known to 
her.
Im looking  at whats most likely here.  And Im afraid that I think that the most likely scenario 
based on the evidence Ive seen  is that Miss G consented to this payment and so it was 
authorised. I know how important this money  is to Miss G but I dont have a basis to require 
Barclays to refund it. Barclays has already made  a payment for the poor customer service  
involved and I think that was adequate so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1957855