K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains, via a claims management company  (CMC), that Sanlam Life & Pensions 
UK Limited  wrongly recommended  via its predecessor business   three savings plans 
which he bought  in 1989 (two)  and 1991.  He surrendered  them all in 1994.
background
Mr Ds representative said:
Theres no evidence of a requirement  for Mr D to have  savings contracts of such a 
long term nature. While the plans  may have been affordable, Mr D was single and in 
his twenties, living with his parents and there was a strong likelihood  his 
circumstances would  change in the short to medium  term. So he shouldnt have been 
recommended such  inflexible contracts long-term commitments
While  he had £3,000  in savings, these were  set aside for a house  purchase.  Plus, 
when the 1991  savings plan was sold, he had an outstanding loan
Theres no evidence that, as a single person without dependents, he had a 
requirement for the life cover. The charges were deducted from the premiums and 
prevented that amount from being  invested in his fund
The terms of the policies were represented  as being appropriate for medium  term 
savings, but the charging structure  ensured  they were unlikely to have a meaningful 
value unless maintained for the long term
An adjudicator at this service  felt his complaint should be upheld.
He said that the way plans worked  it was likely  Mr D receive back less than he invested  in 
the short to medium  term, even if the funds  performed reasonably  well. As Mr D was only 21, 
its a reasonable  assumption that his circumstances would undergo significant changes  in 
the future  and he may need  access to his savings, something the adviser ought reasonably 
to have taking  into consideration.  For example, when  the first two policies were  
recommended, it seems Mr Ds intention was to purchase a property (hed set aside £3,000 
as a deposit) and by the time his third policy was recommended, only two years later, he 
was married with a mortgage.
As a result, the adjudicator wasnt persuaded that the plans were  appropriate  as Mr D might  
have needed to access his savings in the short term,  particularly as he had no discernible 
emergency fund to fall back on.
 
On this basis he recommended  that Sanlam refund his premium  s and pay additional 
compensation based on potential lost interest by using the Bank of Englands base rate.
Sanlam did not agree, and said:
At the time the first two policies were  sold Mr D was living  with his parents. His 
chosen employment meant would have had excellent sick pay benefit (among other 
excellent benefits)  and significant  job security. Therefore he did not have a great  deal 
of need for an emergency fund
Ref: DRN19460012By the time the third policy  commenced in 1991  he had married and bought a 
property. His salary  had also increased dramatically and it is clear from the fact file 
that he and his wife were  financially  co-dependent and had an excellent level of 
disposable income so an emergency  fund could have been  established  rapidly
Although it could be argued that Mr Ds circumstances were  likely to change, there 
was nothing to suggest that any changes would make the policies unaffordable
Mr D had already established  a £3,000 fund towards a deposit  for a property
It disputes entirely the adjudicators  suggestion that the policies  represented a 
significant risk; the  monies  being  invested in the managed fund,  regarded  as 
suitable for the average investor
While  the adjudicator claimed Mr D had absolutely no experience  of investment risk, 
yet it is clear from the documentation that he had held a regular premium savings 
endowment policy  since 1985
It also wants to reiterate  that the advisor  clearly described the product as long term. 
In the surrender request  letter  Mr D said he had carefully considered the 
disadvantages of cancelling the...policies early; this is a clear indication  that he 
understood this. Whilst the letter does not give any indication  of his reason  for 
surrendering at that point, there  is no evidence  it was due to affordability
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I do not dispute that the policies may have been affordable,  at least in the 
foreseeable future, given  Mr Ds employment,  salary and disposable income.  However, I still 
do not believe they were suitable recommendations.
From what  Ive read, there is no evidence that Mr D was unwilling to set aside  monthly sums 
for savings  purposes. But I can see reason why Mr D, particularly at his age, would have  
wanted to commit  to a savings  plan which needed  to be kept for a minimum of 25 years. In 
effect, to save exclusively for the long term, thereby excluding the option of using this 
savings pot for any priorities, projects  or purchases in the short or even the medium term. 
Even if Mr D might, in theory, have been willing to contemplate retaining this plan for such a 
long-term I do not see why he would have wanted  to be restricted to this period.
If he had been  presented  with the option  a flexible savings plan  of which there were many 
available at the time  in which he could choose  when  to take out lump  sums or fully encash  
without  in effect   being penalised due to the charging structure, Im satisfied  he would 
have done this. This is even more so given  he could have paid into a policy which  did not 
include life cover, and the costs attached to it. I do not believe he would have wanted the life 
cover both due to his age and status  but also because he would,  more  likely than not, have  
had generous life insurance cover through his employer.
While the savings plan stated that it needed to be retained for at least 25 years for maximum 
benefit i.e. it was only suitable as a long-term savings plan, a number of the statements 
Ref: DRN19460013seemed to contradict this, referring  to potential uses which  were  clearly not exclusively long-
term such as: 
Storm damage to your home or garden.  Loss  of Income due to accident or serious  ill-health, 
to give you just a few possible examples. Looking on the bright side you will also want to 
build up your resources  for more  pleasurable expenses. That new car you have  always 
promised yourself. An extension to your home
In my view, these sentences are manifestly misleading. I therefore  also do not feel Mr D was 
in a fully informed position to decide whether to go ahead with the plan.
I explained to Sanlam that the adjudicator had mistakenly used the wrong redress  formula 
and if I upheld the complaint redress would be based on the Bank  of Englands  base rate 
plus 1%, this services  standard formula  for assessing potential  returns on investments from 
this date.
Sanlam did not agree, saying that the adjudicators redress was not on the basis  that Mr D 
should have invested elsewhere,  but rather that he should have saved the money on deposit 
instead. It claimed that much of the rationale  behind this appears to be based on the notion 
that Mr D was entirely risk-averse and required immediate  access to his money. Therefore, if 
this case were to be upheld on similar grounds, an award  based  on investment loss as set 
out below  would not seem to be appropriate.
I have considered this new evidence but am still satisfied  that the following formula is the 
more appropriate  basis for redress. Firstly, I do not agree with its interpretation  of the 
adjudicators view. More importantly,  I dont think the evidence  indicates that Mr D was 
completely risk-averse when it came  to these payments.
Mr Ds representative did not claim that he wasnt looking  to set aside regular sums for 
savings purpose,  merely that he should not have been tied into such  long-term and inflexible 
contracts, and ones  with unnecessary life cover costs. Sanlam rightly pointed out that Mr D 
had a healthy income, little or no debts  and could easily  afford these payments - and that 
theres no evidence  of unaffordability.
I agree  with this. I can see no reason why Mr D would not or should  not have invested this 
money in a suitably  flexible, risk-based product. Im therefore satisfied that compensation 
should be based on the assumption that he would  have  invested these sums, if properly 
advised, and not left the money  in a deposit  account.
Sanlam should  compare the return Mr D received on the dates he surrendered  each of his 
plans with how much  interest he would  have earned  if he had invested the same sums on 
the same  dates and received a return equivalent  to the Bank  of Englands  base rate plus 
1%. Assuming these  calculations  show a loss or losses it should pay these losses.  It should 
also add simple interest of 8% per annum to each of the loss figures from the date each  plan 
was surrendered to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Ref: DRN19460014Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1946001