K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the service he receives from Santander UK Plc (Santander) when he 
changes the amount of his direct debit  (DD).  He feels the time period for implementing  the 
change is too long, and should be only a matter of days rather  than up to six weeks.  
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr T and Santander so I wont repeat it in any great detail.  Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.  
In summary,  Mr T had a credit card with Santander, which he usually paid in full, by DD, 
every month. On some occasions he wished to change the amount of the DD, but found it 
could take over 6 weeks to become  effective.  He said that if he forgot to check  if the change 
had been put into operation, he missed making  a payment and incurred charges, and put his 
credit file record at risk. Mr T feels that when a customer requests a change  such  as this it 
should be implemented  within  a few days at the most.
Santander did not feel they had done  anything wrong and essentially say that their process 
is fair and reasonable and well known to Mr T. In addition  they said that Mr T had previously 
complained to Santander in 2018  about  a DD hed set up and which  had not been collected 
due to incorrect advice.  They  explained that they had upheld  his complaint at that time and 
in so doing had explained to Mr T that a new DD could take up to six weeks to become  
active and in such circumstances he should check the two credit card statements which 
followed the change  to see when the DD became  active. 
Santander also pointed  out that when Mr T rang in January 2019 to change  the DD, he was 
told that following  cancellation of the original DD he would have to wait 48 hours  to set up a 
new one and thereafter he would have to check his statements as previously  advised.
Mr T was unhappy with Santanders response and so the adjudicator looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think Santander had acted unfairly.  As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  Santander  
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr T. My aim is to ensure  that a fair and 
reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  means  taking into account both Santanders 
view and that of Mr T. 
When a banks customer sets up a DD, it naturally takes some  time to put it into effect. Ive 
looked at the DD scheme  rules and can see that they do not specify  how long it takes to set 
up DDs. It is apparent that the reason for this is that the time for doing so is dependent  on 
other factors, thus leading to Santanders  position that it might take up to six weeks. It is 
important to note that Santander do not say that it will take six weeks, just that the DD will be 
set up within  that period.  
Ref: DRN17853432So, in the absence of any fixed time for setting  up the DD I look to see what Santander 
actually told Mr T to see whether they have acted fairly.  It is clear  that Mr T knew from his 
previous contact with Santander in January 2018 precisely what  Santanders position was. 
Of course just because he knew that, it does not mean that it was or is fair. However it does 
show that Santander has been transparent and consistent in what  they told Mr T, since  they 
repeated it the following year when he called.
The core of Mr Ts complaint is that he is unhappy with the time it takes Santander to effect a 
change to his DD. I see that our adjudicator explained to Mr T how the DD scheme worked, 
so I shall not repeat  it, save to say that it is not operated by Santander but by the 
organisation called BACS. Thus there is very little Santander can do to effect the time it 
takes to put the DD into operation.
As I do not perform the role of the industry  regulator, I have no power to make  rules for 
financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct that they change  their processes. That falls 
under the remit  of the Financial Conduct Authority. So, as the DD scheme  isnt operated  by 
Santander I am unable  to make any recommendations about it and neither can I interfere 
with it.
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come  to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. Whilst I recognise how frustrating this is for Mr T, I 
cannot fairly say that it is Santander  who has acted  unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1785343