K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has handled  her 
requests regarding her current  account  and her savings account statements.
background
Mrs C has a current account  and an easy saver account with Lloyds. She has a standing 
order set up to leave  her current account on the 1st of every month. However, she is 
unhappy that her monthly statement is sometimes produced earlier  than scheduled, and that 
the standing order  sometimes leaves her account  later than the 1st of the month, so it doesnt  
always show up on her monthly statement. Mrs C is also unhappy that a statement for her 
easy saver  account was not produced  in July 2018.
To put things right for Mrs C, Lloyds has offered to change the date her statements are 
produced, so that she can always see her standing order on each  months statement. And it 
has offered Mrs C £50 compensation for not being  able to explain why her easy saver 
statement wasnt produced in July 2018.
Our investigator considered the issues  and didnt think Lloyds  should  do any more. She was 
satisfied that Lloyds had offered a reasonable solution to the issue of Mrs Cs current  
account standing  order not showing on all her statements and that it had offered an apology  
and a fair amount of compensation in relation  to the missing July 2018 savings account  
statement.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigator. She said she never asked for her statement date to 
be the 29th of each month and hasnt received an adequate explanation as to why there are 
so many different  statement dates.  So the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for much  the same  reasons. 
Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence,  and on 
balance, despite  what Mrs C says,  Im not persuaded that Lloyds has acted unreasonably 
here.
But before I explain  further, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise 
Mrs Cs strength of feeling about  these matters. Mrs C has provided numerous submissions 
to support the complaint,  which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs C 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  and not all 
the points raised,  as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties  have  raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mrs C and by Lloyds,  and reach what I think  is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Ill now explain why I think Lloyds hasnt  acted unfairly. Lloyds has said Mrs Cs statements 
are usually produced  on the 29th of each month. It has explained that statements can be 
produced early if the statement  date falls on a non-business day. Its also explained that 
standing orders can leave  accounts  later than scheduled if the scheduled date falls on a 
Ref: DRN10655502non-business day. So there have been times  when  Mrs Cs statements have been produced 
on the 27th of the month, or when the standing  order has left her account on the 2nd of the 
month, for example.
Because Mrs Cs standing order is not scheduled  to leave the account until the 1st of the 
month or shortly thereafter, it has not been showing on all her statements. For example, the 
statement issued on 29 June 2018 does not show any standing orders  leaving the account,  
whereas the statement issued on 1 August 2018 shows  two standing orders leaving the 
account  one on 2 July 2018 and one on 1 August  2018. 
While I can appreciate this is frustrating for Mrs C, and I accept that shes  said she never 
asked for her statement to be produced on the 29th of the month, Lloyds has offered to 
rectify the problem. And I find Lloyds offer to change Mrs Cs statement date reasonable. 
This would mean the standing order leaving Mrs Cs account that month would show  on 
each statement, even  if the statement is produced early  or the standing  order leaves her 
account late, for the reasons given above. Mrs C has chosen  not to accept Lloyds  offer to 
put things right.
Mrs C has said she believes shes entitled to have her standing order  paid on the date she 
wants it to be paid,  apart from when that date falls on a non-business day. But I cant see 
that this hasnt happened. And I cant see any evidence of what  Mrs C says is a change  that 
has been made to her scheduled statement and standing order dates without her consent. It 
seems plausible  that the inconsistent dates are a result  of the banks internal procedures, as 
it has explained. And its not for the ombudsman service to tell a financial  business to 
change its processes. 
I can see that Lloyds  has completed an internal investigation into why Mrs Cs July 2018 
easy saver  statement was never produced. And while its unfortunate that the bank hasnt 
been able to explain how this happened, Im satisfied that its looked  into the matter, 
apologised and offered a reasonable  level of compensation. 
So Im afraid  I cant say Lloyds has acted  unfairly towards Mrs C. I know Mrs C will be 
disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have explained clearly  why I wont  be asking 
Lloyds to do any more  than it has already offered to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Ifrah Malik
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1065550