K820x#14complaint
Mr K brings a complaint against MBNA  Limited with reference to section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
Mr K bought an artwork  by a famous 20th Century  artist. He says the seller misrepresented  
the letter  of authenticity that went with the artwork. He paid part of the price  for the artwork 
via his MBNA credit card. 
background
For the purposes of this decision  Ill treat the case, for simplicity, as if Mr K had bought the 
artwork, not his wife. It makes no material difference to the issues. 
Mr K says the seller  led him to believe there was a letter  of authenticity  already in existence, 
which the seller couldnt  immediately locate  but which would be forwarded  to Mr K.
When, after Mr K took possession of the artwork,  the seller  forwarded the letter  of 
authenticity, Mr K was disappointed to discover the letter  was dated with the same  date as 
the purchase and was signed by the seller. 
Mr K says that if hed known the letter of authenticity didnt already exist, he wouldnt have 
bought the artwork.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt conclude  the seller  had 
misrepresented the letter  of authenticity. She found that at no time before or during the sale 
had the seller confirmed  the date of the letter or who it would be signed  by. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said the letter  was important  for the 
provenance of the artwork. If hed known  it didnt pre-date his purchase, he wouldnt have 
bought the artwork. Mr K also forwarded  an exchange of emails with the seller  after the 
purchase, saying  it showed how the seller  failed to answer his questions about the letter of 
authenticity. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I havent  
upheld his complaint.
Id have had to be satisfied that any misrepresentation induced  Mr K to enter  into the 
purchase contract.  In his letter to the ombudsman service setting out his complaint, Mr K 
wrote:
At the time of purchase we listened to an audio  commentary within the gallery 
confirming that purchases  made came with a Letter  of Authenticity,  this was 
confirmed at the time of purchase verbally  by the staff. Whilst we paid for the piece 
on [date of purchase], we agreed not to take possession until [two days after the date 
of purchase].
When we did take possession [two days after the purchase] we were informed that 
the Letter  of Authenticity could not be located  and would be sent directly to our home.  
Ref: DRN15941022This arrived by registered letter on 12 June 2018. This implied a Letter of Authenticity  
was in existence but not available at that time.
So according to Mr K it wasnt until two days after the purchase had been  concluded  that the 
seller said the words which implied the letter  of authenticity was already in existence. 
A misrepresentation, to induce a contract, must of course precede  the contract. According to 
Mr K that didnt happen here. For that reason alone, the complaint must fail.
Apart from that, Im not persuaded the precise  nature  and contents  of the letter  of 
authenticity played an important part in Mr Ks thinking and actions before he bought  the 
artwork. If it had done so, I would  naturally  have  expected him to satisfy himself  as to its 
precise nature and contents (the signatory, the date,  what  the letter actually said etc) before 
he bought the artwork.  He didnt do this. 
I also think the date of the letter,  with the greatest respect to Mr K, isnt so material. If the 
letter had been in all other respects  the same  but had been  dated the day or the week  before 
the purchase, would  that have made  all the difference for Mr K? I doubt it. Unless Im 
mistaken, its the nature of the letter that Mr K is unhappy with; its not the sort of provenance 
he was expecting. But the point  is that he wasnt promised a particular kind of letter  or 
provenance. Nor before the purchase did the seller say who the letter would be signed  by or 
when. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. For the reasons Ive given, I havent found  he was induced 
to buy the artwork by a misrepresentation.  So I think  MBNA Limited handled  this aspect of 
his section 75 claim correctly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1594102