K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs C bought the policy in 1995 at the same  time as taking out a store card.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mrs C aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive considered a copy of Mrs Cs store card application  which isnt 
the most  legible, alongside a clearer example  application  form that FICL have said is 
reflective of what Mrs C would have seen. 
It seems  more  likely  than not that there  were  two options for PPI, and the option for 
PPI was ticked. Mrs C has signed the overall  application to agree  to what she was 
applying for. As this sale took place well over 20 years ago, it wouldnt  be reasonable 
to expect Mrs C to remember everything clearly now. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But FICL did still have to give Mrs C good enough information  about the PPI so that 
she could decide if it was right for her and if she wanted to take it out. Mrs C has said 
that she wasnt given  any  explanation  to what I was being sold.  
FICL have  said that paperwork, such as the policy terms would have been provided to 
or sent to Mrs C after the sale.  But I havent  seen any evidence that Mrs C did or did 
not receive any paperwork after the sale.
Ref: DRN15682892Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  and its also possible that Mrs C didnt receive the information that she 
should have.
But Mrs C was eligible for the cover and doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover  and based on what  I know  about her 
circumstances, including  her sick pay, it looks like the policy  couldve been  useful to 
her as it would  have paid out for longer than Mrs C would have received full sick pay. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it and I dont think  that 
Mrs C has lost out because of anything that FICL  may have  done  wrong.  
Ive also taken into account Mrs Cs comments, including  what shes  said about her existing 
means for making her repayments, including help from her husband. But although Mrs Cs 
husband may have  wanted to help her, circumstances can change  and he may not have 
been in a position to help when needed. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1568289