K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs T says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Mrs T said, in summary, it wasnt made clear that PPI was optional. She said she didnt need 
PPI because of her significant  work  benefits and other means.  She said she wouldve been  
able to maintain  her repayments from these if she was out of work. She also said she wasnt 
told about the costs  and benefits of the policy and wouldve declined the insurance if given 
clearer information. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs T applied for the card by filling in a leaflet. She signed  a credit agreement  
agreeing to take out the credit card.  On it, there was a section about PPI. To take 
out PPI, the customer  wouldve had to select the box saying they wanted it. The box 
couldve been left blank if they didnt  want PPI. There is a tick in the box on Mrs Ts 
application selecting PPI. The box to select card protection was left blank. I think it 
likely that Mrs T wouldve understood  PPI and card protection  were  optional products 
and she didnt have  to take them. So, I think it more likely she opted to take PPI, 
completing the paperwork and signing the form to say she wanted it. 
RBS didnt recommended the PPI to Mrs T, so it didnt have to check that it was 
suitable for her. However, it still had to give her information that was clear,  fair and 
not misleading, so that she could decide for herself  if the PPI was right for her and if 
she wanted to buy it.
Mrs T said she wouldve got sick pay from work, six months at full pay and six 
months at half pay. She said she wouldve also have  got redundancy pay and had 
access to her companys  share  saving scheme.  She said she had some  savings,  but 
couldnt remember how much.  She said she also owned a house that she was 
renting out until it was sold in 2003. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time, I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for her needs. She 
was eligible to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.  I cant see that she was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ts work  benefits, allowing her to use these to meet  
her other household  expenses. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.  Ive taken into account Mrs Ts other resources, but I cant see that 
these meant that the PPI clearly  wasnt  right for her. The PPI wouldve allowed her to 
keep hold of her savings.  I dont  know  how easy it wouldve been for her to access 
her share savings, or if she wouldve lost out financially if she had to access them 
quickly.  I havent been told whether Mrs T had a mortgage on the property she 
rented out. If she did, its possible that the rental income was going towards the 
mortgage. 
Ref: DRN13965812Mrs T says the information she was given about PPI wasnt  clear, particularly about 
the costs and benefits. Its possible  the information  RBS gave Mrs T about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And, for the reasons explained above, it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think having better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ts said, but these points dont change my decision. I cant  
see that Mrs T has lost out because  of anything that RBS did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396581