K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is that Monument Insurance dac gave him incorrect  information  about his 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  when  he telephoned it in 2012.  
background
Mr A says he telephoned Monument  in 2012 to let it know he was returning to work. This is 
because he had an active unemployment  claim on his credit  cards PPI policy at the time. He 
told Monument that he was now self-employed and asked if he should keep the PPI policy.  
He says he was incorrectly told to keep the policy as he doesnt think  he was covered due to 
him being self-employed. Because of this, Mr A wants a refund of his PPI premiums from 
2012 onwards.  
An adjudicator asked for a recording of the telephone call from 2012. As the business 
couldnt provide  this or the reason why the policy was cancelled in 2016, the adjudicator  
upheld the complaint. Monument responded to this with a number of recordings of calls 
between Mr A and Monument  in 2014 in which he tried to make an unemployment claim. In 
these calls Monument explained the limitations  on the policy  for self-employed people when 
making unemployment claims.
As a result of this, the adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint and explained this to Mr A. He 
disagreed with the outcome and the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As complaint centres  on Monument  not telling him to cancel  his PPI policy in 2012 when 
he says he made them  aware he was self-employed.  
Firstly, Ive considered the information  Mr A says he shouldve received in 2012. The PPI 
policy did cover  self-employed people,  so it doesnt follow  that Monument should  have told 
Mr A to cancel his policy. But being self-employed  did make it harder for him to make a 
successful unemployment  claim.  The policy document  sets out the consumer has to stop 
trading permanently and their business has to either be wound up, in the hands of a 
liquidator or dissolved.  So Monument  shouldve made Mr A aware of this if he directly  asked 
how being self-employed would affect his ability  to use the policy.
Monument hasnt  been able to provide  call recordings from 2012, and I dont think  this is 
unreasonable. So its not possible for me to know exactly  what  was said at the time. Ive 
considered everything  available  to me to come to what  I think is most likely in the 
circumstances.
Monument has been able to provide a number  of call recordings from 2014 when Mr A was 
trying to start an unemployment claim on the PPI policy. During these phone calls Mr A told 
Monument he was self-employed  and had his own limited  company. At that point,  Monument  
explained to Mr A that in order for it to process his unemployment claim he would have to 
provide a letter from Her Majesties Revenue and Customs  showing his company had ceased 
trading. 
Ref: DRN11938312Mr A decided not to continue with the claim as he was in the process of applying  for a new 
job. He then kept the policy for another 18 months  before cancelling it in July 2016. So I can 
see Mr A decided  to keep his policy for an extended  period  of time after he was given 
information on the unemployment  exclusions that affected him. So while I cant  know  what  
was discussed  in 2012, I think its more  likely  he wouldve chosen to keep  the policy at that 
stage if he was given  correct information  about  its exclusions for self-employed  people.  
So I dont  think any possible lack of information  in 2012 has caused a detriment to Mr A.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1193831