K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that Barclays Bank  Plc treated him badly when he visited a branch, 
then insulted him in a letter.
background
Mr E went  to a branch  of Barclays to pay a bill. Hes explained there were two queues  one 
for personal  account  holders, and one for business and premier account holders.  He joined 
the personal banking queue. However,  when he reached the front of the queue,  staff served  
a business/premier customer instead. And someone  behind him in the queue  approached 
the next available counter. He drew  this to the staffs attention and asked to speak to a 
manager. But the manager called  the police to have him removed from the branch,  and 
wouldnt serve  him. He feels hes been discriminated against.  He feels  that CCTV would 
confirm this, and that it didnt happen to anyone else in the queue.
Barclays later wrote  to Mr E, in a letter dated 24 January  2018.  In the letter,  it said that the 
branch manager  had felt Mr E had been  rude to Barclays staff. He feels  this letter  was 
insulting to him.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. But she didnt agree that Mr E had 
been discriminated against. She didnt  feel it was necessary to view the CCTV, as it was 
agreed that Mr E hadnt been  served next.  Barclays explained there had been technical 
issues, so the counter  for business customers wasnt working at the time of Mr Es visit. This 
meant that Barclays had to serve two different queues at the same  time, on a rotational 
basis. Whilst she understood Mr Es frustration,  she didnt think there  was evidence of any 
discrimination.
Our investigator noted that because of what had happened, Mr E hadnt paid his bill on time. 
Although she didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong,  she also noted  that it had 
refunded an £8 charge  that Mr E incurred because of this.
Mr E disputed that the counter wasnt  working because of technical issues.  He said when he 
raised his concerns about what had happened, the counter opened and started serving  
customers again. He also said that the queue wasnt operating  on a rotational basis. It was 
operating as normal and the business  customer was only called when it was his turn. He 
also said that this happened twice and didnt happen  to any other customers. He added that 
staff werent wearing name badges in the branch.
Our investigator wasnt able to view the CCTV footage, as she was told a viewable copy  was 
no longer available. But she said that Barclays had acknowledged that whilst Mr E was 
waiting in the queue,  and was the next one to be served, a customer from the business  and 
premier banking queue was called before him. It also acknowledged  that when the next 
counter became available  another customer from the personal  banking queue - who was 
behind Mr E - was seen  leaving  the queue and approaching the counter that had just 
become available. So, theres no dispute  between the parties  that this is what  happened.
Further, Mr E said the counter for business customers  reopened shortly after he expressed 
his concerns about what had happened   so this shows that the counter was working as 
normal. Barclays agreed that the counter  reopened, but said this happened  because the 
staff member that was covering it was able to fix the technical  issue.
Ref: DRN11634872In summary,  our investigator didnt feel there was evidence of any discrimination. And she 
didnt feel it was for her to comment on the issue of name badges.
As regards  the police being called, our investigator  thought that if Barclays staff felt that 
there was a need to call the police, then that's not something she could say they did wrong.  
Mr E disagreed, and said if hed done anything wrong, hed have been arrested, which he 
wasnt.
Our investigator also looked at Mr Es concerns about being told it was felt he was rude in 
the branch. She felt that was the staff members individual interpretation of that persons 
feelings at the time. And she didnt  think any further  attempts to obtain the CCTV would help,  
as it doesnt record  sound. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, and feels strongly about what  happened. His 
complaints now been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr E feels very strongly  about whats happened. Im sorry that he feels  he was 
discriminated against, and I know this would have been upsetting. I also know  that the police 
being called, and a reference  to rudeness, would have been  upsetting  too. But I dont think  
Barclays has behaved unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything. Ill explain why.
Im afraid I havent been able to view the CCTV footage, as I understand it is now 
unviewable. It seems Barclays was able to view it initially, but now cannot. I know Mr E feels  
strongly about this, and that a viewable copy should have been kept. I agree that its not 
ideal that I cant  now be provided with a copy. But its not my role to punish businesses. 
Rather, its for me to decide  how things have affected individual  consumers. So Ive thought 
about how this has affected Mr E. Having done so, I dont think  it has affected the outcome 
of his complaint.  I dont  think seeing  the CCTV would change  my decision.  Even  if it had 
been viewable, it didnt  record  sound. So I wouldnt have been  able to tell what  was said.  
Also, its not in dispute that Mr E wasnt served  when  he thought he should  be. And it 
wouldnt help me in determining if there were any technical issues  with the computer system 
at the counter.
I accept that it must have  been very frustrating to queue up, and for another customer  to 
then be called first. And a customer  to apparently jump the queue. I can see why Mr E 
would have wanted to raise this matter. But I have no reason to doubt that the staff members 
were simply trying  to serve the customers as best they could, and there were technical 
issues that were later resolved. I cant see why the staff wouldnt  have  used the counter, had 
they been able to. I dont  think theres  any evidence that Mr E wasnt served because of 
discrimination. I havent been able to view the CCTV, as Ive explained. But I will accept  
Mr Es submission  that he was the first customer this happened to while he was in the 
branch. But that doesnt mean  he was being  discriminated against. I think it most likely  the 
staff were trying their best to serve people  and accept the explanation of there being a 
technical issue, because  I think it is plausible. Unfortunately  technical problems do happen, 
and in this instance, it meant Mr E wasnt served  next. 
Ref: DRN11634873I know Mr E feels strongly he didnt do anything wrong and it was unnecessary  to call the 
police. But I dont think it would be right for me to interfere in determining the rights and 
wrongs of people calling the police. That is something that people, and businesses, are 
entitled to do. Its then up to the police  what  action, if any, is taken. 
Mr E has also explained  that he felt he was insulted  in a letter. This was following the 
incident in the branch, and in the letter it was said that a manager thought Mr E was rude to 
members of staff. I know Mr E thinks there needs to be definitive proof of rudeness. But I 
agree with our investigator that this is a matter of personal perception. I think the person who 
wrote the letter  was trying to explain why the police were called (and why Mr E wasnt  
subsequently served). I dont think he was intending  to insult  Mr E. The letter reads  to me as 
an explanation  of what happened, from Barclays point of view. 
As regards  whether or not the staff were wearing name badges, I cannot be certain. But 
even if not, I dont think it had an impact  on what happened. I think  Mr E would  have been  
sufficiently aware of who the Barclays staff were  those manning the counter(s)  and who 
spoke to him later. And I think that the crux of the complaint Im looking at is whether Mr E 
was discriminated against,  and insulted. I accept  he feels  that he was discriminated against,  
but I dont think  theres evidence to support this. And I accept he does feel insulted, but I 
dont think it was unfair of Barclays  to explain  how its staff felt.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint. I make  no 
award against Barclays Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1163487