K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused  her request to reject a car.
background
In May 2018  Mrs S bought a second hand car for £6,158 which was funded by a hire 
purchase agreement  with Blue and a deposit of £200. It was some  five years old and had 
done 61,000 miles.  Mrs S paid a premium to have the car checked and any necessary work  
carried out and I have seen an internal invoice for work to the value of £470.
Shortly after purchase Mrs S encountered some problems. A warning light came  on and 
coolant was leaking  and parts of the car were developing rust. She took the car back to the 
dealer on two occasions and it effected  repairs under warranty.  
Mrs S complained to Blue and it commissioned an independent report.  This concluded  that: 
based on the visible evidence the vehicles water pump displayed signs  of coolant  
leakage which we would consider  on the balance of probability  would  not have been 
developing at finance inception.
The vehicles fuel tank evaporator breather  unit has been  grounded out causing  
damage.
This condition also would not have  been developing on the balance  of probability at 
finance inception
Shortly after this Mrs S took the car to an independent  garage  which  identified  that the water 
pump was leaking.  Blue rejected Mrs Ss request to pay for repairs or to be allowed to reject 
the car and so she brought her complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted the findings  of the independent  engineer and the MOT  carried out shortly before 
the car was bought. He also noted the car had been driven for over 3,000  miles from the 
date of purchase and when  the inspection was conducted. On balance he didnt consider 
there was sufficient evidence to show  that the faults  had been  present at the point of sale.
Mrs S didnt agree and said the garage was supposed to have carried  out a check  before the 
sale and it should  have discovered the coolant was low. She believed  there  was a fault at 
that point. It had also just tippexed  over the rust. The adjudicator  checked with the garage as 
to what work  it had carried out. It provided  details and said it didnt use tippex to cover  the 
rust, but it would have  touched up any problem areas. 
However in the light of the MOT advisory noted from March 2018  which  noted a coolant leak 
he suggested Blue pay for repairs to that. It agreed.  However Mrs S said she should  be 
allowed to reject the car.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15816182In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier  of the goods under  this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate Mrs Ss frustration that her car encountered some  faults  after purchase, but 
the evidence doesnt point  to me being able to say it should be rejected.
I presume that if the car was suffering from rust at the time of sale this would have  been  
apparent to Mrs S when  she inspected it. The photographs she has sent show  the rust is in 
obvious and accessible  parts of the car. I also understand  that the manufacturer  offers 
lengthy paintwork  warranty and it may be that this rust is covered by that. Obviously I cannot 
say for certain if the car qualifies, but it would be sensible for Mrs S to explore this possibility.
I note that the garage repaired several  items shorty after purchase, but I can see from the 
independent report  that fuel tank issue was most likely due to the car being grounded and so 
it is unlikely that this was present at the point of sale.  The issue with the coolant  may have 
been present,  but I dont think that this is sufficient to merit rejection and Blue has agreed to 
pay for the repairs. I consider that to be a reasonable response.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to 
pay for the repairs to the water pump to address the coolant leakage. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581618