K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (Tesco) is unfairly pursuing him for an 
outstanding balance on his credit card account.  Hes said a balance  transfer payment was 
made incorrectly to a third party account with another provider and he thinks the third party  
should be pursued for the debt. Hes also unhappy  Tesco has charged  him a transfer fee 
and didnt tell him the payment had been  processed.
background
Around June 2018, Mr H applied online for a credit card account with Tesco. At the same 
time, requested to transfer his existing balance of around £1750  with another  provider (Ill 
call it V) to Tesco as he wanted to benefit  from a promotional offer. 
Mr H has said as far as he could tell, the balance transfer didnt happen so he contacted  
Tesco in late July 2018 to find out what was happening. Hes told us he was later informed 
hed input the incorrect credit card number (as a reference) by two digits   so the funds to 
pay off his existing  balance with V were transferred to the wrong  customers  account. 
Mr Hs August 2018 statement for his account shows the balance  transfer took place on 
6 July 2018. And a balance transfer fee was charged at the same time. And by the time 
Tesco became  aware  the funds had gone to the wrong account, the third party had spent it. 
V was able to recover £300 of the funds  so this was returned to Mr Hs account  on 
17 September 2018.
Tesco has given us the correspondence  between itself and V. It initially  asked V to apply the 
funds to the correct  account on 31 July 2018.  And after the £300  was returned to Mr Hs 
account, Tesco asked  V for the details  of the third party so Mr H could pursue them  directly.  
Between September 2018 and January 2019,  Tesco chased V for this information on a 
number of occasions. And around  April 2019, it gave  Mr H details of the third party.
Tesco has said it completed the balance transfer  in line with the information provided by 
Mr H. It initially  said it sent Mr T a letter confirming the last four digits  of the account the 
payment was being made to  and as it was these  numbers  that were  incorrect,  it thought he 
shouldve realised it was the wrong account.  Mr H has told us he didnt receive  this letter  and 
Tesco has since told us it doesnt  think this letter was actually  sent to him.
Mr H says hes been put in a financially difficult situation as he now has an outstanding 
balance of around £1750 on both his accounts  with Tesco  and V. He thinks  if Tesco had let 
him know earlier the balance transfer had happened,  he wouldve been able to confirm his 
account with V hadnt been  paid off  and potentially recovered  more of the funds.  
Tesco thinks  it did everything it could  to recover the funds from the third party. It asked Mr H 
to give details of his income and expenditure for it to consider setting up a repayment  plan. 
Unable to resolve  things with Tesco, Mr H contacted our service. Our investigator upheld  the 
complaint. He said whilst he accepted  Mr H input the incorrect information for the balance  
transfer, he thought  Tesco shouldve made it clear if the wrong  information  was entered,  it 
wouldnt be able to recall  the funds. He also thought  Mr H wouldve relied on the online 
application saying  balances could only be transferred to an account in the same  name.  
Tesco didnt  agree with the outcome. As the complaint wasnt  resolved at that stage, it was 
passed to me to reach a decision  on.
Ref: DRN17100912my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2019.  I explained  I thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  (in part) in summary  because:
Id thought about relevant laws,  regulation  and good industry practice. And I didnt  think  
Tesco did make  it clear to Mr H that the credit card details he input on his transfer 
request needed  to be accurate even  if the name on the incorrect  account wasnt  his.
But I also looked carefully at the Payment Service Regulations  covering certain payment 
service activities   including  making  credit  transfers. And in this case, I thought  where 
the unique identifiers  (for example  the sort code and account number) provided are 
incorrect, Tesco isnt responsible for the payment being carried  out incorrectly.  
I didnt think it was in dispute that Mr H entered  the wrong credit card number when 
requesting a balance transfer. So whilst  it may have been good practice for Tesco to 
provide some warning  to him that the payment could still go through if he input the wrong 
details, I didnt think that means  its liable to cover the amount lost in this case. 
Id seen the information  given  during  Mr Hs credit card application  suggested customers 
can only transfer balances to a card in their own name. But I thought  the purpose of this 
notice was to put customers off trying to transfer  the outstanding  balance of a third party 
to their account. And I didnt think it made Tesco  responsible for the missing funds. 
I thought Tesco contacted V quickly to let it know the transfer was made  in error. But it 
didnt tell Mr H whether his funds  could be recalled for several  weeks  and only after he 
complained. I didnt think that was reasonable  and I thought Tesco had a responsibility 
to get back to Mr H sooner with an answer.  
I also didnt think Tesco gave Mr H clear and accurate information  about the other  
options he had to pursue the third party as quickly as it could have. 
Overall, I thought Tescos  actions mustve caused Mr H a great  deal of distress at an already 
difficult time. So I thought  it should pay Mr H £150  to compensate  him for this.
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Tesco 
didnt respond  by the deadline set. Mr H let us know  he accepted  my provisional decision  
and didnt make any further  comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having also looked  at the responses Ive received, I see no reason  to change my 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So for the same reasons set out above and in 
my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
Ref: DRN17100913my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint in part. 
I order Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr H £150  as compensation for its handling of 
this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1710091