K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened about  17 years ago when the 
application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr and Mrs C have said they dont  recall PPI being mentioned when they took out the 
mortgage, and that the PPI was added without their knowledge. However,  without 
stronger evidence and given how long ago this all happened, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
say that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Being 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mr and Mrs C received  any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it looks as though they had limited  other means  to fall back  on. So 
this all would have  put Mr and Mrs C in a more secure position, if they eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs C took the PPI.
Ref: DRN15194072Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these. They  
were likely to have  been eligible for the policy, and theyd  be paying for it monthly, so 
they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519407