K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 and 
amended in 2006 to protect  a mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs C aware the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding the policy to their mortgage.  There isnt much information available  from the 
time Mr and Mrs C applied  for the PPI or amended  it. But from what  is available, I dont have 
enough to say that Santander didnt present the policy as optional or that Mr and Mrs C 
didnt choose  to have it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. Mr and Mrs C have  told us they were  entitled to significant  sick pay when they took 
the policy, and had savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr and Mrs Cs 
sick pay, and protected their savings so they could be used towards  other expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time they werent  affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs C.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said - including  what theyve said about 
being pressured into taking the policy. But pressure can be subjective so I would need to see 
persuasive evidence  that this is what  happened  at the time to uphold  the complaint for this 
reason, which  I havent seen. So these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019. 
Ref: DRN14415792Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1441579