K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mrs B says Skipton Building  Society  (Skipton), mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
Mrs B took the PPI with a further advance on her existing mortgage.  She applied  for the 
extra lending by filling  in an application  form. The application form had equally noticeable 
boxes to say either yes or no to PPI. So I think Mrs B was made aware she had a choice 
about the PPI. On her form, the yes box is ticked and Mrs B signed the form. So although 
she has said she thought  she had to take the cover, I think its likely she wouldve known she 
couldve turned  down the cover by ticking no if she didnt want it. With all this in mind,  I think 
Skipton made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Skipton didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have  to check  the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to decide  whether the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it  so I think she wanted this type of cover.  It would pay out for 
up to twelve months for a successful sickness or unemployment claim. Mrs B was entitled  to 
less than twelve months work pay for sickness or redundancy. And the cover  was to help 
protect a mortgage  a liability secured on Mrs Bs home. It could help at what  could be a 
difficult time if Mrs B were  made redundant or too sick to work. Shes said her husband  
couldve helped instead, but other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change.
Mrs B couldnt have claimed  for any existing medical conditions she had. And she has told 
us she did have a condition she was diagnosed for about twenty  years  earlier. Shes told us 
that although she receives  treatment for it she hasnt  taken any time off work for it. On forms 
sent to us and Skipton about  her situation  as it was twelve years or so before this sale and 
some years after her diagnosis, Mrs B said she didnt have any health problems. With all this 
in mind, it doesnt look like Mrs Bs condition was significant  enough  at the time of this sale 
to make the policys medical  exclusions likely  to have put her off taking  the cover. And Mrs B 
wasnt affected by any of the other  exclusions or limits on the cover,  from what  Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time. It also it looks like the PPI was affordable.
So it seems  likely the cover would have been useful for Mrs B if something went  wrong.  With 
all Ive said above in mind, taking everything else into account I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put Mrs B off taking the cover.
What Ive said above means Skipton  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs B. But Skipton will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Ref: DRN11603072Skipton got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Skipton didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Skipton has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Skipton has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Skipton should also pay back to Mrs B any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Skipton should  pay back  to Mrs B the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Skipton should also pay 
Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But Skipton Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs B 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1160307