K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K are complaining that Citibank Europe plc wont refund transactions Mrs K 
didnt authorise.  
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
On 30 October 2018, Mrs K was called by someone  who claimed to be from BT. 
They said her IP address  had been compromised  and theyd  sort out the security on 
her computer.  To do that, Mrs K gave them access to her computer and logged into 
accounts she used  online.  
During the day, several payments were made from Mr and Mrs Ks bank accounts, 
that theyve said they didnt  make. This included two successful payments from Mr 
and Mrs Ks account with Citi  totalling £40,700. £19,011.13 has since been  
recovered from receiving banks. So, the total loss for which  Mr and Mrs K seek 
compensation is £21,688.87.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr and Mrs K arent  liable 
for payments  they didnt authorise, unless  they failed with gross  negligence or intent 
to comply with the terms of the account or keep  their personalised security details 
safe. 
Ive considered whether Mrs K authorised these transactions  and so, in line with 
the PSRs, whether  she completed the agreed steps to make the payments or gave 
someone else permission  to complete these steps  on her behalf. 
Ive reviewed the accounts terms and conditions to see how it was agreed  for 
payments to be made online. These say that to make a payment, Mrs K needs to 
provide the information Citi asks for to identify the recipient  such  as the account 
number and sort code. They also say that before Citi acts on the instruction, itll 
check it was made  by Mrs K. And that itll be satisfied  an instruction was from her if it 
was made using the agreed Payment Instrument  which can be a set of procedures 
like her PIN, password  or security key.  
Here,  Mrs K has repeatedly  told us that she didnt enter in any of the recipients 
account information  shes pointed out how she doesnt  know who these people are, 
so she couldnt  have known their account  details. 
Citi have suggested  that Mrs K did make the payments, under the guise that she was 
transferring it to a safe account. Its referred  to calls she had with Citi after the scam, 
where she said the fraudsters were  starting  a dummy account and they needed to 
secure the account. From the calls weve been provided with, theres only one 
mention of a dummy  account  and in this call, Citi dont explore whats  meant by that 
and what sort of account she means.  Theres also no reference to a safe account or 
Ref: DRN14153892a dummy account in the other  cases Mrs K brought to us against  other  businesses  
about this same scam. Instead, she has been  consistent that BT said her IP address 
had been compromised,  and that theyd update  her security for the protection of her 
accounts. 
Were this to have  been a safe account  scam, Id have expected  to see the fraudsters 
pose as Mrs Ks bank or an organisation like the police. Id also expect to see fewer 
new payees and transactions  and the use of simpler references. Here,  the 
payments were set up in several  peoples names  with references such  as 
investment and building work. I also think its unusual that after presenting a 
situation which meant the fraudster had access to Mrs Ks online banking, theyd then 
ask her to knowingly make payments. 
I accept Citis suggestion  is possible, and I note its point that a fraudster couldve 
manipulated her screen so she didnt see all the details of the payments. But, in light 
of what Ive explained, I dont think its more likely than not that Mrs K set up these 
payments. It follows that Im not persuaded she completed the steps for a payment to 
be made or gave  someone else permission to make  the payments on her behalf.  The 
payments were,  therefore, unauthorised. 
I dont think Mrs K failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed  
what she was doing was necessary to protect her accounts. 
Im also not satisfied she failed with gross negligence. The fraudster said they were 
from BT. Given they are Mrs Ks genuine provider and they knew  some  of her details 
 like her name  and details of her address  I can see why Mrs K didnt question this. 
I accept she couldve have done  more to verify the caller,  but I think a lot of people 
wouldve acted in the same way when  they heard a familiar, trusted name.  
Mrs K was told her IP address had been  compromised and theyd need to secure  her 
online accounts. To do that, theyd need to access her computer. It seems Mrs K 
already had TeamViewer installed, so the fraudster used that. This type of software is 
legitimately used  by professionals to help with technical problems  indeed, the fact 
Mrs K already had it speaks to it genuine uses.  In this light,  I can see why their 
request for access didnt  seem  unusual and why Mrs K followed  their instructions. 
Mrs K hasnt  consistently recalled whether she logged on and whether she shared 
Citis one-time passcodes. Having listened  to one of the first calls where she reported  
the scam  (which  tend to be the most reliable account), Mrs K acknowledged logging 
on as well as providing one-time  passcodes that were sent to her. Thats  supported 
by Mrs Ks phone records  so Im satisfied thats  more  likely to have happened here. 
Ive reflected on the context under which Mrs K wouldve taken these steps. Shed 
been duped  into believing  her IP address had been compromised  and that their 
accounts needed to be secured. Like most people, Mrs K wasnt an expert in cyber 
security, so she trusted the advice of who she believed  was a trusted professional  
after all, without knowledge herself,  its difficult to question. And the fraudster played 
this role convincingly  theyd gone  to the lengths of manipulating  Mrs Ss screen so 
she either couldnt see what was happening  or she was presented with fake 
programmes that showed how they were fixing things.  
Ref: DRN14153893In these circumstances, I can understand how the reality  that the fraudster was 
making payments   wasnt  in Mrs Ks mind.  And I can see how Mrs K logged  on and 
shared passcodes, believing she was fixing a problem, not making  one. Im not 
persuaded that by doing so, her actions fell so far below what  a reasonable person 
wouldve done that she failed with gross  negligence. 
In saying this, Ive considered what the messages with the passcodes wouldve  likely  
said: Citi will never  ask you to share  this OTP. Your Citi OTP to add account number 
XXXXX as a new payee on Citi Online is XXXXXX. Im mindful  that when someone 
is expecting something for a certain purpose, like a passcode,  they tend to focus on 
the number, without taking in the rest of the message. Thats  heightened  when youre  
acting in the heat of the moment,  panicked about  the risks if you dont do as youve 
been instructed  to. 
Citi suggest that Mrs K shouldve  recognised  the risks here, as she had used one-
time passcodes to knowingly transfer money  from an account with another  bank. Mrs 
Ks recollections arent clear on this point,  so Im not convinced  that was the case   
after all, a passcode  is unlikely  to have been needed to transfer money to a known 
payee. But in any event, I wouldnt expect someone  to know an exhaustive  list of 
what one-time passcodes could  be used for  and indeed,  some banks use them  for 
more than just setting up payees  and sending payments. 
On this basis, I dont think Mrs K acted with a significant degree  of carelessness that 
she failed with gross negligence.  So I conclude  that she isnt liable for the 
transactions and Citi need to put things right  by refunding Mr and Mrs Ks losses  
from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate them  for the 
time theyve been out of pocket. 
Citi have questioned why its liable, as funds came in to this account from other 
accounts in Mr and Mrs Ks names  as part of the scam.  For the reasons Ive set out, 
Im satisfied  that under the PSRs, Citi can be held responsible for these unauthorised 
transactions. And I dont think that leads to an unfair outcome. Mr and Mrs K has 
raised a complaint for these transactions to a third party  (as opposed to the incoming 
transactions), and I note that Mr and Mrs K hasnt been reimbursed for these losses 
elsewhere (so they wont be unjustly enriched).
Citi ought to have refunded this much sooner  and thats meant Mr and Mrs K have 
had to pursue  a lengthy complaint and not been able to put this behind  them.  So I 
also award £100, which I think fairly reflects  their non-financial losses  here, such  as 
distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I order Citibank 
Europe plc to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs K the total of the unauthorised transactions (£40,700), less any 
amount already returned (which I understand  is £19,011.13)
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible)
Ref: DRN14153894Pay £100 compensation for Mr and Mrs Ks distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2021.
 
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1415389