K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy shortly after taking out a loan (over  a term of seven 
years) in 2004. They paid a monthly  premium for the PPI which protected their loan 
repayments if Mrs W wasnt working  due to disability or unemployment. The PPI also 
provided life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews  had to make  Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI. 
But Mr and Mrs W say they were  unaware the PPI had been added  and, if they were,  had 
probably been led to believe the PPI was compulsory, or formed  part of the loan.
St Andrews  has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws signed loan application form, which  
shows PPI wasnt selected  when the loan was first taken out. And St Andrews internal 
records show that the PPI was taken out (via a postal application) more than two months  
after the start of the loan.
St Andrews  has also provided  a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs W just after the PPI was 
taken out, which included a PPI schedule  and confirmation that their direct debit for the PPI 
had been set up.
Based on this, and from experience of St Andrews sales practices at the time, I think its 
likely Mr and Mrs W were  sent some documents about PPI some  time after the loan was 
taken out. And, as the loan has already been taken out, I dont think Mr and Mrs W can 
reasonably have thought  that they had to have  the PPI to get the loan or that the PPI formed  
part of the loan.
So I think its likely St Andrews made it clear to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice about 
the PPI. And that they chose to take it out, knowing they didnt have to.
Given how the PPI was sold, Im satisfied  St Andrews didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs W. This meant that, although St Andrews  didnt have  to make sure the PPI was right for 
them, it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to decide  for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Ref: DRN18582842Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like Mrs W was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  
so it would have  been useful for them if something  went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said, including what  they said about not 
needing the policy as they could have relied  on family for help if needed. As I mentioned 
previously, the PPI was sold to them through the post, so it was for them  to decide if it was 
suitable for them, based on what they knew about their personal circumstances. And the 
benefits of the policy  were  considerable in that it would have paid out for up to 12 months 
per unemployment  claim and for up to 60 months per disability  claim.  Plus the benefits were 
guaranteed whereas there was no way of know whether  their family would have been in a 
position to help when it was needed.  So this doesnt change my decision.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of how 
St Andrews  sold them  the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1858284