K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that Academy Insurance Services  Ltd (AIS) referred her to a solicitors 
firm rather than her insurer when she wanted  to claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
AIS sold Mrs D a policy  in March  2017.  In August 2017 Mrs D was involved in an accident 
that wasn't her fault. She says she rang AIS for help and it put her through to a solicitors  
firm, which  Ill refer to as W, to progress her claim. W referred her to another company, 
which Ill call O. It provided Mrs D with a like-for-like hire car and arranged for repairs  to her 
own car on whats known  as a credit  hire basis.
While W was dealing with Mrs Ds claim it asked her for some information.  Mrs D did provide 
some details but it appears W wanted further evidence which it says she didn't supply. In 
2019 O wrote to Mrs D. It said that as she wasn't  cooperating with Ws requests for 
information O would seek to recover its hire car and repair  costs  from her.
Mrs O complained to AIS that it had referred  her to W rather  than her insurance  company to 
deal with her claim. AIS didn't  think  it had done anything wrong. Mrs D brought her complaint 
to us. One of our investigators looked  into Mrs D's complaint. She didn't think  AIS had done 
anything wrong. Mrs D didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ds made  a number  of points. But in this decision I will focus 
on what I see as being the key outstanding issues which  AIS is responsible  for.
AIS is an insurance intermediary, so it sells policies and might  help with their administration 
but it doesn't provide  the cover which is underwritten by an insurer which  is a separate  
business. AIS isn't a claims handler for Mrs Ds insurer. But Mrs D said that the information  
AIS sent to her when  she took out her policy told her to contact AIS in the event of a claim. 
So thats what she did after shed had her accident.
I've looked  at the information AIS gave to Mrs D about its services when she took out her 
policy. And within that AIS provided a number to call to report non-fault claims. It says that 
calls to that number  provide  an accident management service administered  by W. It says 
that it would  notify  Mrs Ds insurer of the non-fault claim but doesn't  otherwise refer to her 
insurance policy.
Mrs D says she rang AIS and spoke with it before  it put her through to W. AIS says it didn't 
speak with Mrs D at that time but that she used its automated system which, by pressing a 
number on her phones  keypad put her through to W. AIS told us that it tried to find a 
recording of any call it had with Mrs D on the day of the accident. But no such  recording 
exists. Its explained  that it would only record a call where its customers have  actually 
spoken to one of its staff.  If a customer uses their phones keypad  to put them  through to W 
then AIS won't have  a recording  of the call. And as no call recording  exists  I think its likely  
that Mrs D was put straight through to W without speaking with AIS first.
Ref: DRN17815212It seems  that initially Mrs W didn't realise  that by being put through  to W she wouldn't be 
claiming on her policy. Having looked  at the information AIS gave to Mrs D it does say that 
the accident management service  W provides  isnt a contract  of insurance. But I can 
understand that, given AIS gave her the information about accident  management  services  
when it also gave her the details  about  her insurance policy, and to call that number in the 
event of a claim, that the two could be confused. 
It might help if I explain that, where  a drivers been  involved in a non-fault accident, accident 
management companies might offer to arrange  repairs and provide hire cars.  They  will then 
seek to recover their costs from the other drivers insurer. But such  companies are entirely 
separate from insurance companies. So accident  management  companies  don't pursue any 
such claims under the terms  of an insurance  policy. And the basis on which they provide hire 
cars is known as credit  hire. Thats  because  they essentially provide credit for the costs  of 
the hire car in the expectation that the third partys insurers will reimburse  that credit when 
the claim is settled. 
I accept that, initially  at least, Mrs D didn't realise  that she was dealing  with an accident 
management company  rather  than her own insurer. But I've seen evidence from W that, two 
days after her initial call with it, she asked W why she was dealing with solicitors. And at that 
point W again explained that it was an accident  management company dealing  with a non--
fault claim.  Mrs D accepted Ws service  on that basis. That wasn't something she had to do 
and she could have  told W she didn't want to proceed and either contacted  the insurer 
herself or asked W, or AIS, to make  that referral  for her. But she didn't  do so.
Further, I've seen that Mrs D signed  separate agreements with both W and O. Mrs Ds said 
she didn't realise  that O was providing  her with a hire car rather than the courtesy car her 
insurance policy entitled her to. But the agreement she signed with O is titled  credit hire 
rental agreement.  And I think its clear that it related  to a hire car provided  by O and not a 
courtesy car provided by her insurer.
Also AIS explained that Mrs Ds insurance policy didn't entitle her to a like-for-like courtesy 
car but would instead have only provided  her with a small hatchback  type car. And I've noted 
Mrs D said that, because  she was due to go away on holiday very soon after the accident,  
that she needed a car of a similar  size to her own. And thats not something that her insurer  
would have provided had she claimed on her own policy.
So while I accept that Mrs D might  not have realised  initially  that she wasn't claiming  directly  
from her insurers  I think its clear  that W took the time to explain to her that it was offering an 
accident management service. And Mrs D then signed separate agreements  with both W 
and O that related to accident  management and credit hire services. So I think  at that point 
she was aware that she wasn't claiming  on her insurance policy.  And if Mrs D had wanted to 
claim on her policy then she didn't  have  to sign those agreements  with W and O. Also it's 
clear that Mrs D wanted a replacement  car - while  hers was being repaired  of a similar size 
to her own. And thats not something her insurance policy would have  provided.  So I think  
that Mrs D would have  preferred  to use Ws service, which could  give her the replacement 
car she was looking  for, rather than claim on her policy, when given that option. It follows  
that I don't think she's in a worse  position  now than she would otherwise have been even if 
she didn't fully understand at the outset that in calling the number AIS provides for non-fault 
claims that she wasn't dealing with her insurer. 
For completeness Ill add that Mrs D has suggested that as AIS sold her policy then it would 
be responsible  for any complaint's she has about  the service W provided. But Mrs D didn't  
Ref: DRN17815213engage Ws or Os service under the terms of the motor insurance policy which  AIS sold to 
her. Instead she entered into separate  agreements with both W and O which  she signed. 
And as W is a law firm, regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, then if she remains  
unhappy with its service she should  complain  directly to it. And theres  a separate  
ombudsman scheme, managed by the legal  ombudsman, for dealing  with such  complaints if 
she's not satisfied  with Ws reply.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1781521