K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms complaint has been  brought by a claims management company (the CMC)  on her 
behalf. The CMC  says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) gave 
Mrs M unsuitable  advice  to make Free-Standing  Additional Voluntary Contributions 
(FSAVCs) into a pension  policy with it. The CMC says, given Mrs Ms circumstances, she 
should have been advised to use the money to buy added years  service in her occupational 
pension scheme, rather  make FSAVCs. 
background
Mrs M became employed full time in the NHS as a nurse in 1998.  Before that shed worked 
in the NHS as an employee and on temporary  contracts. She had a personal  pension with 
Prudential and had, in the past, accrued some years of service within the NHS occupational 
pension scheme. In 1998 she re-joined  the NHS scheme rather  than continue  to pay into her 
personal pension.  
Mrs M was given  the advice subject  to complaint in 1999. At this time she was 49 years  old, 
was married and had two financial dependants who she expected to be dependent  on her 
for another  five years. She was living in tied accommodation related to her husbands  job 
and was earning a total of around £22,000. She was recorded as having a very cautious 
attitude to risk, and her objective was to increase her retirement income.  Prudential  
recommend she make  FSAVCs into a policy with it to achieve  that objective.  
The FSAVC  was set up with monthly net contributions of £162.18. That was the maximum 
Mrs M could  contribute  under pension tax rules at the time. The contributions  were  to be 
used to buy units in Prudentials with-profits fund. In 2010, when she retired,  Mrs M 
transferred the money held in the fund (around  £30,000) to another provider.
Prudential did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said, in summary:  
The adviser gave  Mrs M a leaflet that went into a lot of detail about the relative  merits 
of the FSAVCs and in-house Additional Voluntary  Contributions (AVCs). 
Added years was a potential alternative way of saving for retirement. This might have 
been offered by Mrs Ms employer and was a very different type of arrangement. This 
type of retirement  planning is often more expensive,  provides family  benefits that are 
not always required and is quite inflexible, so it did not see it as a natural choice for 
Mrs M.
It cannot find any evidence to suggest  the FSAVC plan was mis-sold in any way. At 
the time this FSAVC  plan would have given  Mrs M a tax efficient means of saving 
towards her retirement. There  was tax relief on her contributions and the fund growth 
had tax benefits. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld. He said, in summary:
He was not sure if Prudential discussed  the added  years option with Mrs M in 1999,  
but he didnt think  she wouldve acted differently if she was aware of the added years  
option at this time.
Ref: DRN10956882Added years would likely have  been a much  more expensive option  for Mrs M than 
the FSAVC. He thought the cost would have seemed too high for Mrs M. 
It was fair to say Mrs M would have been a reasonably low risk investor.  Her 
contributions to the FSAVC were paid into a with profits  fund which  was considered 
a relatively low risk investment so he thought it met her circumstances at the time of 
the sale. 
With hindsight, added  years may look like the best option  but in 1999 investment 
returns and annuity rates  were much higher than they are now, and it wasnt  
generally anticipated that the economic climate would change in the way that it has. 
Prudential had provided him with a copy of a factsheet called Additional  Voluntary  
Contributions  Some Important Features  and a copy of the recommendation 
summary that was sent to Mrs M in January  1999.  That set out the features of the 
FSAVC, including  the difference between it and an in-house scheme. So he thought  
Mrs M was given  enough information to decide  whether  or not she felt one of the in-
house options would have  been  better  suited  to her needs. 
The CMC did not accept this view. It said,  in summary: 
When Mrs M was sold the FSAVC in 1999,  she was aged  49. With the normal  
retirement age of 60 in mind,  this meant she had 11 years to retirement. The cost of 
purchasing one added year would have been  approximately 1.85% of her salary.
It is totally implausible to say that added years were more  expensive. Mrs M was 
paying the maximum 9% of her salary into the FSAVC. So affordability  appears to be 
irrelevant in this case. 
Its calculations show that, given that Mrs M has contributed 9% of her salary for the 
remaining 11 years  of her employment, she could  have purchased in excess  of 4.5 
years additional  service. Had this option  been discussed, with a relatively short  
period to retirement, Mrs M would have undoubtedly seen the massive  benefit. 
We need to consider Mrs Ms age younger consumers are more likely  to be early  
leavers and so less likely to benefit from added years. Mrs M joined her occupational 
pension scheme  in 1998 when  she was 48 years old and she had previously been 
employed on temporary  and part time contracts, accruing 8 years  service. Mrs M 
was very clearly  happy in her job and did not have  any intention of leaving the NHS.  
Future job prospects  should also be taken into consideration within this case. Mrs M 
had trained to qualify  as a nurse. At age 49, it seems very unlikely that she would 
have a desire to change  her career. On the balance of probabilities, she would  have 
remained with the NHS  as a trained nurse.  In fact, this is exactly  what happened. 
Mrs M was not likely to see the large salary increases  that some  doctors  saw within  
the NHS,  but it should be noted  that she contributed  the maximum 9% of her salary  
to the FSAVC and continued to do this up until retirement. 
It has been recorded that Mrs Ms attitude  to risk was very cautious. Its 
understanding is that added years are normally more suitable for consumers who 
usually adopt  a risk averse approach to investing.  It follows  that for Mrs M, with only 
Ref: DRN1095688311 years  to retirement, she would not have wanted to take any risks with her 
retirement planning. 
In its recommendations Prudential has very simply  written  that the relative merits of 
FSAVCs and AVCs were covered. There is nothing to document how it covered this. 
It also documented that Mrs M chose the FSAVC  plan because of the choice of 
investment. But Mrs M was placed  within the with profits  fund and never  made any 
fund switches. It is sure we are aware it would not normally be considered  good  
advice to contribute to an FSAVC when there were clearly better options available.
first provisional decision
My first provisional  decision was, in summary: 
The available evidence showed  Prudential met the regulatory requirements  relating 
to the sale of AVCs  and FSAVCs. 
But Prudentials adviser  also had a general  duty of care to give suitable advice based 
on Mrs Ms circumstances at the time. And, in my view, the advice Prudential gave 
Mrs M was unsuitable. So I thought  it was fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
I did not think there was any justification  for recommending  FSAVCs  over the in-
house AVCs Mrs M was able to make into her occupational scheme. The AVCs  
would have had lower charges than the FSAVCs. And there  was no evidence  to 
show the FSAVCs were more suited  to Mrs M than AVCs. 
However, I did not think Mrs M would or should  have used her money to make  AVCs 
into her occupational scheme  either.  She should  have been  advised to use the 
money to buy added years of service. In her circumstances, that was the best thing 
for her to do. 
So Prudential should have recommended Mrs M use her additional contributions  to 
buy added years of service. And I was satisfied Mrs M would have accepted that 
advice. 
Prudential did not accept this view. It said, in summary: 
Because its representative was a tied agent  he was not able to provide advice on any 
other product  than the FSAVC.   It was not therefore possible for it to recommend 
added years. Its duty was to point out that other options were available and this is 
what it did. It was not required to carry out a detailed comparison of FSAVCs,  AVCs 
and added years.
The rules applicable  to independent  financial  advisors say such an advisor should 
have actively investigated the AVC and recommended  it, if it was better for the 
consumer. This does not, however, apply  to life assurance companies, such as it. 
The complaint  should therefore be reconsidered  under the LAUTRO  Code of 
Conduct for life assurance company representatives. 
Ref: DRN10956884Previous ombudsmans decisions have confirmed it met the regulatory requirements  
at the time. It is not clear  how this complaint  differs to the complaints those decisions 
related to. 
It would  like to challenge the figures  quoted  by the CMC in respect  of the cost of past 
added years. It has stated  that the cost of one added year would have been 
approximately 1.85% of Mrs M's salary. It would  like to see evidence of this as it 
believes this figure should  be higher.
It agrees it is likely that Mrs M would have  stayed in nursing.  However, it is possible 
that she could  have returned  to a temporary  part-time contract or even gone into the 
private sector of nursing.
Our own published guidance  suggests  that consumers that are likely to have 
relatively low salary  increases are less likely to benefit from added years. But I have 
still suggested Mrs M would have been  able to buy significant extra benefit through  
the added  years  route.  Again it would like to see evidence  that buying  added years 
would have been affordable.
my second  provisional decision 
The PIAs Regulatory Update in respect  of the sale of AVCs  and FSAVCs (RU20) 
was published  in 1996. The advice here, in 1999,  post-dates that update.  
I had noted  Prudentials reference to the LAUTRO Code of Conduct. However, it is 
my understanding that RU20 was intended  to be a clarification of the existing rules. 
So I am satisfied it is consistent with the requirements of the Code of Conduct. 
Prudentials letter of 15 January 1999, which set out its advice, said that the relative  
merits of FSAVCs and AVCs had been discussed  with Mrs M. It also referred  to a 
leaflet called AVCs  some important features which had been given to Mrs M. That 
leaflet set out the differences between the FSAVC and the AVC in generic terms, 
including the likely  lower  charges of in-house  AVC schemes.  It also explained that 
information about AVCs will be available from the employer  or pension  scheme 
trustees. So it was consistent with the requirements  set out in RU20. 
I acknowledged that the leaflet  and letter dont specifically mention added years. But 
Id not seen any evidence to show Mrs M made  any contact with her employer or 
occupational pension scheme  trustees for further information about the in-house AVC 
option despite the mention of AVCs possibly being cheaper.  And, at the time,  the 
projected benefits from added years  would not necessarily have looked any better 
than the money  purchase option. So I was not persuaded it would have made any 
difference had added years been  specifically mentioned. 
 
I remained of the view that there was general  duty of care to give suitable advice. But 
I appreciated this needed to be considered in the context  of the limits on what  a tied 
representative could  do at the time, and the regulatory rules  in place. 
Having reconsidered  things on this basis I accepted, on reflection, that it was unfair 
to say Prudential  should have actively recommended  added  years or have 
considered the suitability of FSAVCs by reference  to the suitability of the other  
options available to Mrs M. I did not think it fair to say Prudential  was required to give 
Ref: DRN10956885advice on these options  I accepted that is beyond  what it was allowed to do at the 
time and that RU20 did not require it to consider the suitability  of these options before 
giving a recommendation. 
With the above in mind, I was now of the view that it was not fair and reasonable to 
say Prudential should not have  recommended  FSAVCs, in the circumstances. As 
Prudential could  not give advice on any of the other options, it could  not comment on 
the suitability of those for Mrs M. It could only recommend its own product,  and 
ensure Mrs M was put in the position required by the regulations, to allow her to 
make an informed choice  as to whether to accept  its recommendation. 
Given the extent  of its obligations  at the time, and Mrs Ms recorded objectives, I was 
satisfied, on reflection, that it was fair and reasonable  for Prudential to recommend 
FSAVCs, having met its obligation  to make Mrs M aware  of the other  options 
available to her. 
Prudentials recommendation letter says I have discussed with you the features of a 
with-profits fund and we established  that this is consistent with a very cautious 
attitude to risk.  Very cautious was the second of four options for attitude to risk, 
which began with Capital Security. It, and the following two options, were defined  as 
follows: 
Very cautious:  
In saving or investing to achieve  my financial objective over a pre-determined period 
of time I want the potential of some real capital growth. I understand that to have this 
potential I need  to take a small risk with the capital I invest. 
Cautious:
In saving or investing to achieve  my financial objective over a pre-determined period 
of time I want the potential of greater real capital  growth. I understand that to have 
this potential I need to take moderate  risk with the capital I invest. 
Adventurous:
In saving or investing to achieve  my financial objective over a pre-determined period 
of time I want the potential of significant real capital growth. I understand that to have 
this potential I need to take a higher risk with the capital I invest. 
I thought, despite their titles, these attitudes  to risk broadly equated to what might 
reasonably be described in common  terms as low, medium and high  attitudes to 
risk. And it was important  to consider the definition itself as much as the title given to 
that definition.  So I thought it fair to say that Mrs M was, broadly speaking, a low risk 
investor. 
The recommendation of the with-profits fund, in my view,  aligned with such an 
attitude to risk. It was a lower risk fund,  to which Mrs M would be making regular 
contributions. 
Mrs Ms recorded objective was to make further retirement  provision,  with the aim of 
achieving an annual  income of £15,000 a year in retirement. The recommendation to 
Ref: DRN10956886invest the maximum amount allowed by HMRC into the FSAVC was not inconsistent  
with this objective  and of the options  that Prudential was able to recommend, it 
gave her the best chance of achieving  this aim, given her attitude to risk. 
Prudential accepted my revised findings. The CMC  did not. It said, in summary:
It seems  Prudential  has persuaded me that any tied representative of any FSAVC 
provider had no responsibility or duty of care to ensure that the advice they were 
giving was the most suitable. My findings  imply that tied representatives should not 
discuss added years. 
There are only 3 things to consider.  A representative should not recommend his/her 
own companys FSAVC until he has:
1.Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme  alternative.
2.Discussed the difference between the two routes  in generic terms.
3.Directed the client to his/her employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option.
It appears Prudential has complied with points 1 and 2 on this occasion but has not 
complied with point  3. It is impossible for it to have done so as the advice and direct  
debit mandate  was all signed on the same  day. It follows  that it was impossible for 
the consumer  to make an informed  decision. 
It may well be correct  in that Prudential  could not advise on added years, but it very 
clearly did have  a duty of care (as I previously said) to ensure that the advice they 
were given  was the best advice for the consumer.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my second  provisional  decision. 
As I set on in my second provisional  decision, the PIAs Regulatory Update  in respect of the 
sale of AVCs and FSAVCs (RU20) was published in 1996. The advice here, in 1999, post-
dates that update. So at the time of the advice, in accordance with RU20,  the Prudentials 
adviser was required  to:
draw Mrs Ms attention to the in-house  AVC scheme
discuss the differences  between the FSAVC  plan and the in-house AVC in generic
terms, including the likely  lower charges of in-house  AVC schemes
direct  Mrs M to her employer or occupational pension scheme trustees for further
information about the in-house AVC option
It is my understanding that RU20 was intended  to be a clarification of the existing rules. So I 
am satisfied  it is consistent  with the requirements  of the LAUTRO Code of Conduct  
Prudential has referred to. 
I think the points  1 to 3 listed  by the CMC  essentially paraphrase RU20. I therefore think  it is 
common ground that RU20 sets out the requirements that were relevant to the advice given 
here.
Ref: DRN10956887I remain satisfied that the available  evidence  shows Prudential  met these requirements. It 
provided Mrs M with a leaflet called  AVCs  some  important features which  had been  given  
to Mrs M. That leaflet  sets out the differences between the FSAVC and the AVC in generic 
terms, including the likely  lower charges of in-house  AVC schemes.  It also explains that 
information about AVCs will be available from the employer or pension  scheme trustees.  The 
correspondence from Prudential to Mrs M records that the contents  of this leaflet was 
discussed with Mrs M. 
The CMC says the third requirement  described  by it as point 3  was not met by 
Prudential. But that is not supported by the available evidence. The leaflet  Prudential  gave to 
Mrs M included the following:  
Since 1989 any employer  who offers  an 'in-house'  occupational pension scheme also has
to provide an AVC facility,  so if you are a member  of your employer's pension  scheme, you
will also be eligible to make contributions to the in-house AVC facility. Information on
any in-house scheme  will be available from your employer or pension  scheme  trustees.
So I am satisfied Mrs M was directed to her employer or scheme trustees. 
The CMC says that Mrs M was given  insufficient  time to complete any enquiries she wished 
to make.  I appreciate the letter I referred  to in my last provisional  decision was sent a few 
days after Mrs M applied for the FSAVC.  But the available evidence shows  this was the 
second occasion on which FSAVCs had been discussed with Mrs M. Prudentials  file shows  
that on 1 October  1998 a meeting at Mrs Ms home took place, and a form recording the 
details of the review  of her finances  which had taken place  at that meeting was signed. A 
letter similar to the 15 January 1999  letter referred  to in my last provisional  decision was 
then sent to Mrs M on 2 October 1998.  That  letter said I have given  you a copy of the 
leaflet AVCs  some important features  and have explained the contents  to you. So it 
seems Mrs M was given the leaflet,  and had the contents explained to her, a few months 
before she finally  applied for the FSAVC. So I do not think  it would be fair and reasonable to 
say Mrs M was not given  sufficient time to consider  things.
I acknowledged in my last provisional decision that Prudentials leaflet did not refer 
specifically to added years.  But, as mentioned, it did direct  Mrs M to her employer or scheme  
trustees. And I dont think a specific mention of added years would have led her to contact 
her employer or scheme trustees when  the mention of AVCs potentially  being cheaper did 
not. So I remain of the view that a specific reference to added  years is unlikely to have had 
an impact of Mrs Ms actions. 
I remain of the view that Prudentials advisor  did have a duty to make  a suitable 
recommendation. But, as I explained  in my second provisional decision,  I think  it is important 
to consider that in the context of the limitations on a tied advisor. Beyond  meeting the above  
requirements, Prudentials  advisor  could only consider the suitability of Prudentials FSAVC  
for Mrs M. For the reasons given in my provisional  decision, I do think  it was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for Prudential to recommend the FSAVC to Mrs M. 
In summary,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, for the 
reasons given here and in my second provisional  decision. I appreciate  this will disappoint 
Mrs M and the CMC.  
Ref: DRN10956888my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1095688