K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Miss B. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss B was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account  in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Ive considered  what  Miss B has said,  but 
Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. This is because:
 The form, which Miss B filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  
you make  by signing in a box to confirm you want account cover.  I can see that she 
has signed her name  there. This did all happen about 21 years ago, so its not 
surprising if she doesnt now remember this. 
 AXA didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable for Miss Bs individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would 
have been for Miss B to decide whether it was suitable.
 However AXA did need to give Miss B clear and fair information,  so she could make  an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Miss B, if any. So Ive thought  about whether  better 
information is likely to have  made  a difference.  But in Miss Bs circumstances at the 
time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think  its likely to 
have made a difference to her decision.  I say this because  its fairly  likely that the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have 
been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy  pay. Also its not clear  she 
had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit  account for long, if 
she lost her income; and even  if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. 
Also it doesnt look like shed have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions in 
the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely  still to have seemed potentially  useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN13149372Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314937