K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say The Co-operative Bank Plc, Britannia Building Society at the time, 
(Co-op) mis-sold  them  payment protection insurance (PPI).
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the PPI at a meeting in 2003  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The cover later transferred to subsequent  mortgages taken by Mr and Mrs L.
Mr L was employed at the time as a senior  teacher and had been there for two years.  He 
has told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months full sick pay and 
redundancy pay. Mrs L was also in work at the time, from what Mr and Mrs L have told us. 
Only Mr Ls employer and salary details were  put on the mortgage application, so it looks  like 
the application was mainly based  on Mr Ls income.  Mr and Mrs L have told us they also had 
savings they couldve used to make mortgage  payments.
The PPI provided  cover for Mr L for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. The PPI application  form Mr L signed  says the monthly  benefit  to 
be paid towards Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim was 
around £428 and from what Ive seen it cost around  £26 per month.
Mr L has told us he had, 19 years  before the sale, at least  a week  off work due to a health 
issue and its treatment.  He hasnt told us of having had, before the sale,  any other  or more 
recent health issues or any further work absences or problems due to his past health issue. 
Co-op has sent us evidence  to show that the mortgage account  was repaid and rearranged 
in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Co-op failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L wouldnt  have  
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ls representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Co-op  should have told Mr and Mrs L 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN15549132The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Co-op should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L and the impact  
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim; and
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs L repaid and rearranged the mortgage account after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for 
private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN15549133The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Co-op, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Co-op  at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Co-op was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Co-op gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for them,  given their needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Co-op gave  Mr and Mrs L sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN15549134-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ls 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs L suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Co-op had to make it clear that the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs L have said it was just 
included as part of the package with the mortgage. Ive thought  about this carefully. 
To take the cover, Mr L signed a separate PPI application form. The use of a separate form, 
and the requirement  for a separate signature to apply, I think wouldve tended to suggest the 
PPI was separate from the mortgage rather than something that automatically came with it. 
Also, what  the PPI application form said included: You have selected  the following cover:-  
Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment. I think this wouldve suggested that the PPI was 
being added as a result of a selection Mr L (the forms  signatory) had made, rather than 
coming automatically as part of a package with Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage.
There was also, on a form Mr and Mrs L signed to apply for the mortgage, a PPI section. It 
was headed: Protecting  Your  Mortgage Payments  and had a box next to which it said:  If 
you would  you (sic) like Payment Protection, please state type of cover required I think 
this wording suggests that if PPI were to be added, it would be because Mr and Mrs L liked 
to have it and so any cover stated  in the box would  be cover  they wanted.  On Mr and Mrs Ls 
form, this box says Accident, Sickness and Unemployment.
Also the form, below this box, says: If cover is NOT required, please sign the Declaration 
below - which I think wouldve suggested  there was an option to not take the cover.
With all of the above in mind,  taking everything  into account I think  its more likely 
Mr and Mrs L knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Co-op provide  advice?
Co-op says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs L have said advice wasnt 
given. Theyve also said they cant recall  whether  advice was given  or not. Taking all this into 
account, Im persuaded that Co-op  didnt give advice at this sale. This means Co-op didnt 
have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
Instead, Co-op had to give Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the PPI was intended to cover and of the approximate costs. Ive reached this 
Ref: DRN15549135conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs L wouldve taken the PPI without any 
sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be. 
Also the PPI application  form Mr L signed  referred to the PPI as Payment Protection, said 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover had been selected, stated the amount of the 
monthly mortgage payment as the amount of the monthly benefit and said Mr L had 100% of 
the cover. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs L knew the PPI was to protect their mortgage  
payments in case Mr L couldnt work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment  - and I 
think they knew what benefit it would pay and had a good idea of the amount of this benefit.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Co-op  gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs L 
agreed to take the PPI. So, I dont think Co-op gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable them  to make an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
 the main provisions  and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Co-op ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Co-ops  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Co-op didnt do all it shouldve done  when it sold this cover to Mr and Mrs L. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would still have taken  the PPI, had Co-op  done  things  properly.  
Ref: DRN15549136Mr and Mrs L say they would not have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs L had to weigh  up in their own minds  the cost of 
the PPI against  the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr L being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs L chose to take this cover.  So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs L thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs L have suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs L were  given about the benefit was clear.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the PPI, such as the limitations, exclusions and costs, wasnt as clear 
as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, it doesnt  appear Co-op  told them the exact premium  at the point Mr L 
applied for it. Having said that, as Ive said above, I dont think it likely Mr and Mrs L wouldve 
taken the PPI without  an idea of the approximate cost. Also, if the cost when they started 
paying for it had been significantly at odds with Mr and Mrs Ls expectations at the point of 
sale, its possible they might have raised this with Co-op or reconsidered their decision. 
Instead they paid for the PPI for a number of years.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the PPI.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded disability claims caused  or contributed  to by any health issue Mr L 
had needed medical  advice or treatment for in the 12 months before the policy  start, or 
resulting from any health issue of which  he was aware at the policy  start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr L wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr L be stopped  from doing his 
own job and any similar  job his knowledge, training and ability  reasonably qualified him 
to do; and
The first 60 days  of any disability or unemployment wasnt covered and the PPI 
protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the cover  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  the PPI. 
Ref: DRN15549137But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr L was eligible  for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to Mr and Mrs L should  
the insured risks have become a reality. 
The PPI wouldnt have  covered Mr L for time off work related to the health issue  hed had 
treated 19 years earlier. But taking into account  all he has told us about it, and the absence 
of anything to suggest he had further  problems after the work absence and treatment hes 
told us of, Im not persuaded Mr L wouldve  thought he was at much risk 19 years  later of 
missing work in future  due to that past issue. So I dont think  he wouldve put much weight 
on it in his decision. Also, I havent  seen  any evidence to suggest Mr L wouldve been caught 
by any of the other significant exclusions  he was in permanent employment for example.  
So, with all this in mind,  I think  Mr and Mrs L still had good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs L mightve 
reasonably expected. But its unlikely  they wouldve expected to be able to make  a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support it. This limitation might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking 
the PPI but Mr and Mrs L, in their circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs L had known  they could only claim for disability if Mr L were  not only unable to 
do his own job but also unable to do any similar job his knowledge,  training  and ability 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what  to do. And 
I accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr L were  unable  (through disability) to do his own job, 
the chances that he would be able to do a similar  job would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Co-op may not have told Mr and Mrs L that the first 60 days  of disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and it may not have  told them  that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 12 month period. All this may have differed from what  Mr and Mrs L expected 
and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was longer  than Mr L wouldve received full sick pay for, and his redundancy 
entitlement was less than 12 months  income. So, given the loss or income  Mr and Mrs L 
could suffer if Mr L lost his job or was too sick to work, I consider it likely they wouldve  still 
thought cover that after 60 days  paid the mortgage payments for up to 12 months,  would be 
of benefit to them and would help them  manage the consequences if Mr L couldnt work in 
the circumstances covered  by the PPI. It allowed multiple claims and could help reduce 
Mr and Mrs Ls outgoings at a difficult and uncertain  time, making it less likely their home 
would be placed  at risk and helping  keep their savings intact or free for other purposes.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr L were made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident or sickness. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L would have taken 
the PPI in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN15549138Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Taking into account  
their circumstances as detailed above,  I consider  it reasonable to conclude the position they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the cover  they were  
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Co-op  should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation,  as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Co-op  misrepresented the terms of the cover in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Co-ops statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Co-op failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Co-op gave Mr and Mrs L, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2003  when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Co-op negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find Co-op  had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
Ref: DRN15549139compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1554913