K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter, is holding him liable for a 
loan which  he did not apply for.
He brings this complaint with the assistance of Ms A, but for ease I will refer to all 
submissions as if made by Mr S.
background
On 5th October  2018, a loan from RateSetter  was applied for online.  The  name of the 
applicant was given  as Mr S  with his correct address  and bank details along with an email  
address and mobile number.  On 6th October, the loan agreement  was signed electronically  
and £3600 was paid into Mr Ss bank account on 8th October.
The following  day, £3000 was paid to a JL via telephone banking and then a further £200 
paid to JL on 17th October.
Mr S says he was on holiday between 6th and 13th October 2018  and noticed  the activity  on 
his account when he returned.   He raised  this with RateSetter and said he hadnt  applied for 
this loan.
RateSetter carried out an investigation but said it was holding  him liable for the loan  so he 
brought his complaint to this service.  He told us that someone known to him had applied for 
the loan, transferred it into his account under the pretence of money owed to Mr S and then 
transferred it back out again.
Our investigator thought RateSetter  had not acted fairly in dealing  with Mr Ss complaint.  He 
thought Mr S should not be held liable for the loan for the following  reasons:
-Mr S had provided evidence to show he was on holiday  between 6th and 13th 
October;
-the location of the IP address for the loan application on 5th October was some  miles 
from Mr Ss home address;
-the email address  and mobile number  provided for the loan was different to the one 
this service was provided with by Mr S;
-the mobile number  provided was an old number which  Mr S had held until August 
2018 but that contract had since ended.  This indicated someone known to Mr S had 
made the application;
-the first transfer of money was made  by telephone banking.  Mr S was registered 
deaf so did not use telephone banking;
-Mr S had reported the matter to the police. Our investigator didnt think he would 
have done this if he himself had taken out the loan;
Mr S agreed with the investigator but RateSetter  did not.  It made  further submissions and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN12227982Having done so, I arrive at broadly the same  conclusion  as the investigator.- and for very 
much the same reasons.  I am, however, asking that Mr S pays  back  £400 of the loan.   Ive  
already invited submissions from both parties  on this point and have nothing further from 
either  save for a query  from Mr S as to the reason why I am saying he is liable for this 
sum.
As the investigator  has explained, we cannot be sure what has happened here so we make 
a decision based  on what we think is more likely to have happened.   And to arrive at an 
outcome, we take into account the documentary evidence  but also the account  from Mr S.  
We then need  to assess the credibility  of what he says.
I find Mr S to be a credible witness and find his account plausible. I think  he is someone  who 
has allowed his bank  account to be used by another  but the decision about whether this 
was right or wrong is not what I am considering here.
I think its likely that Mr S did not take out this loan for the same reasons  as the investigator 
gave above.  Therefore,  I dont think its fair for RateSetter to hold him liable for the money 
save for the £400  which was not transferred out of his account.
RateSetter has no contractual  relationship  with Mr S as he did not take out this loan.  Neither 
did he know of the funds crediting his account  or subsequently debiting his account.   If it 
wants to recover its money, it needs  to pursue  the person who applied  for the loan  not 
Mr S.
That said,  the transactions surrounding the loan do appear to have left a surplus of £400  in 
Mr Ss account.  He thought that was the money  owed to him by the fraudster who took out 
the loan.  That may well be his thinking   but Im afraid that money belongs to RateSetter  
and so needs to be returned.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Retail Money Market Ltd should:
-stop pursuing Mr S for the loan which he did not apply for  save  for the £400 which 
he must repay;
-treat Mr S positively  and sympathetically  in arranging a repayment plan for the £400;
-repay any payments  taken from Mr Ss bank account in relation  to the loan;
-add 8% interest to those amounts from the date they were made to RateSetter to the 
date they are repaid;
-remove any data about this loan from Mr Ss credit  record
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222798