K820x#14complaint
Miss Ws unhappy that she couldnt  make a free transfer of money from her Nationwide  
Building Society Single Access ISA into a non-Nationwide account. 
background
Miss W had an online  ISA with Nationwide. She says she wanted to transfer £8,000 from her 
Nationwide ISA into her current account  elsewhere.  But she was told she was only allowed 
to transfer money  online from the ISA if she had a Nationwide current  account. And as she 
didnt, her options were  to collect a cheque from a branch or pay £20 for a CHAPS transfer 
or collect the money in cash from a specific branch. She wasnt willing to pay a CHAPS fee 
and says she had no choice other  than to take out cash to fulfil her purchase of the car in 
time. Shes unhappy  that the terms and conditions of the account didnt make clear transfers 
were only allowed if she had a Nationwide current account. She says carrying so much cash  
was a danger and caused  her stress. She wants compensation for that.
Nationwide said in its final response that its cash ISA products do not have the option of 
transferring funds online to an external account. The terms and conditions of the account 
provide full details  of how the ISA can be managed. Itd provided  Miss W with alternative  
ways to carry out a withdrawal from the account.  And the £20 fee for a CHAPS  payment is 
part of the condition of that payment method.   
 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
The account terms and conditions dont specifically state the money cannot be 
transferred to another bank without  charge. But they do say the cash ISA isnt 
intended for making day to day transactions and there are limits to how money can 
be taken out of it. 
We wouldnt expect a bank to set out all the ways a customer  couldnt make 
payments or transfers but it should say how they can be made.  Nationwide has done  
so. And one way is to make a transfer to another Nationwide  account.  This suggests 
transfers cannot be made to external accounts in the same way. 
Miss W says she was left with no choice but to make a cash withdrawal which was 
dangerous given the amount she was taking out. But this wasnt  the only option. She 
couldve made a CHAPS transfer for which the terms  and conditions state there  
would be a £20 fee. 
The terms and conditions were  clearly set out and it was Miss Ws responsibility  to 
ensure the account  met her needs. 
Taking everything into account  Nationwide hasnt done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN18238602Miss W remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says the terms and 
conditions say there may be a number of ways  she can manage the ISA and withdraw 
money. And they refer her to the Key Product Information. That document says the only 
account restriction is the requirement not to make  more  than one withdrawal a year to get 
the higher interest rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss W took out the cash ISA online she wouldve been made aware  of, and have  had 
to accept, the accounts terms and conditions. And it was for her to determine  the account  
was suitable for her needs. 
The Key Product Information says under the heading Managing your account that Miss W 
can access her account via the Internet Bank  or Banking app (if you are registered  to use 
the Internet  Bank)   or in branch. 
In addition the accounts terms and conditions say in the section  titled  Withdrawing money  
from your account  that the permitted free withdrawal types for a cash ISA are by cash, a 
guaranteed corporate cheque or by internal transfer  to another Nationwide  account. 
Alternatively a CHAPS transfer  with a £20 fee can be arranged.
Nationwide also correctly  told Miss W of her options on the phone.
Nationwide didnt say anywhere that a transfer from a cash  ISA to an external account is 
permitted. 
It also did nothing wrong saying a £20 fee would be applicable for a CHAPS transfer as it 
was clearly set out in the accounts terms and conditions.
Miss W was unwilling to pay the £20 fee for a CHAPS transfer service and chose to collect  
£8,000 cash from a branch. I understand she felt uncomfortable and fearful transporting this 
large amount of cash from the branch. But I cannot agree that it was her only option.  She 
couldve avoided having to do so by arranging a CHAPS transfer which wouldve meant  the 
funds arrived with the cars seller the same  day.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Nationwide has done anything  wrong  and I dont 
think I can reasonably ask it to do anything more,  including paying Miss W compensation as 
shed like.
I recognise Miss Ws strength  of feeling  and frustration. Even so I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
Ref: DRN18238603my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1823860