K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK plc removed the £100 overdraft facility  on her current 
account.
background
Mrs H had a Santander  123 current account  with a £100 overdraft facility.  Santander  wrote  
to Mrs H on 11 March 2019  to let her know her overdraft facility  would be withdrawn on 
1 May 2019.  Mrs H was very unhappy with this decision  as, due to being out of work whilst 
waiting for an operation,  she had no income and was relying on the overdraft to help her 
financial position until she could return  to work.
Santander issued  its final response letter on 26 March 2019.  It did not uphold her complaint. 
But it did give her contact  details of the Santander  Financial Assist  team.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He was satisfied that Santander 
acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the account when  it removed the overdraft with 
notice. Whilst sympathetic to Mrs H, he didnt think Santander took the action it did without 
good reason or to cause  Mrs H further financial problems.
Mrs H has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  She feels  she hasnt been listened  to and 
her circumstances considered. She doesnt understand why a bank would offer an overdraft 
and then remove it when  someone has stopped having a salary  being paid in because they 
have had an accident and are unable  to work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H feels let down  by the bank. She has been  with the bank some 
time and deposited  a lot of money  and now she is in a difficult situation because  of her 
health Santander  she feels - wont  help.  An overdraft isnt, however,  a reliable form of 
borrowing as it can be taken away at any time.  And as the investigator explained Santander  
was entitled under - the terms  and conditions of the account - to remove  the overdraft 
provided it gave notice which it did. 
Even though  a bank can remove an overdraft we do expect businesses to treat customers in 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Here I can see that Santander let Mrs H 
know about the help it could offer through its financial assist  team.  I think this was a positive 
response. It wasnt what Mrs H wanted  but it did show it understood that she might  be 
struggling and was willing to help.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  whilst I have a great  deal of sympathy  for Mrs Hs 
situation, I cant agree with her that Santander did anything wrong when it withdrew  her 
overdraft.
Ref: DRN11111222my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1111122