K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc wont remove the other  party from his joint 
mortgage.
Hes said that the other  party  who Ill call A  has been through an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) in which they signed  over the rights to the property, so Bank of Ireland 
should remove them from the mortgage.
background
Mr W complained  to Bank of Ireland as it would not remove A from the mortgage. Bank of 
Ireland responded to say that it wouldnt do this as the IVA didnt satisfy the requirements it 
needs to do so. It explained  that A had not been made bankrupt but is subject to an IVA and 
that it would  maintain its security and not release  them from the mortgage. Bank of Ireland 
also said that Mr W could go through a transfer of equity process to have the mortgage in his 
sole name.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought that Bank of Ireland should remove  A 
from the mortgage.
Bank of Ireland  disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 23 March 2020.  In it, I explained that I wasnt  minded to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the information provided in this complaint, I dont think  that Bank 
of Ireland has acted  unfairly. I understand that this will be very disappointing to Mr W 
and appreciate that hes in a really difficult situation  here. But having considered 
everything, I dont think that Bank  of Ireland has done anything  wrong.
I say this as, having seen  the IVA in question,  Bank of Ireland has not submitted a 
claim and is entitled  to rely on its security in the event  of non-payment of the 
mortgage. I understand that Mr W has been paying the mortgage and maintaining the 
property himself and that this must  be a very frustrating situation  for him.
Bank of Ireland  agreed  to lend on the basis of a joint mortgage in 2004.  Mr W and A 
agreed to be jointly  and separately  liable to repay the money they borrowed. The 
circumstances have  changed over this time and Mr W has said that A has all but 
given up their right to the property and moved  abroad. Be that as it may, in terms of 
liability under  the mortgage agreement,  nothing  has changed as a result of As entry  
into the IVA. In time, As share of any equity he holds in the property might  pass to 
the supervisor  of his IVA. But that doesnt  affect As obligation to repay the mortgage 
borrowing.
Bank of Ireland  did state in its final response  letter to Mr W that he could complete a 
transfer of equity process and that it will then consider removing A. That, of course, 
Ref: DRN13778272will be subject  to Mr W satisfying Bank  of Ireland  that hes able to sustain the 
mortgage on his own.
To date, Mr W hasnt  gone through the transfer  of equity  process  to have the 
mortgage changed to his sole name with Bank of Ireland. I do appreciate that this 
might not be easy for Mr W as he may need As consent and hes said they are no 
longer in touch.  Ive also noted that Mr W was hesitant to go through  the application 
to have the mortgage transferred into his sole name  as this would require a new 
credit application  and he would need  to pay for the legal fees. I understand he has 
concerns about  his credit report due to his financial association  with A. But I do think 
this is something he could consider further if he would he would like the mortgage to 
be in his sole name. It isnt something Ive got any basis on which  I could require the 
bank simply to agree.
I appreciate that this matter has been ongoing  for some time for Mr W and have  
considered the points  hes raised.  I would like to be able to help Mr W but having  
considered everything, there  isnt anything I feel that I can fairly do here. I would 
suggest that Mr W seeks independent legal advice  to see if there are any other  
options for him regarding this matter.
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think that Bank  of Ireland has acted unfairly  and so 
I wont be recommending  that it do anything further in this case.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W replied to say that he believes that Bank of Ireland should remove  As name from the 
mortgage as he gave up his right to equity in the property  in the IVA, along with the debt. So 
hes said that the asset (the property)  was pledged  and included in his proposal, which  he 
says was approved  by 75% of creditors. 
He also said that he is happy to continue  the existing mortgage  in his sole name and that he 
doesnt think he needs to go through a new application, or credit check, to do this.  
Bank of Ireland  replied to say that it accepted the provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  my provisional decision  in light of these comments. Having done so, Im 
not changing my opinion  that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I understand that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr W but I will explain why. 
I appreciate that this is a difficult situation for Mr W but as I already explained in my 
provisional decision, Bank of Ireland can rely on its security in event  of non-payment of the 
mortgage  irrespective of the IVA. As this was a joint mortgage, both Mr W and A are jointly  
and severally liable for the debt and therefore  Bank of Ireland can pursue both parties if the 
mortgage isnt paid. I understand that Mr W has been paying  the mortgage  and maintaining 
the property by himself.  He can ask Bank  of Ireland to remove A, but the bank isnt obliged  
to do so.
I can appreciate why Mr W would like A to be removed and hes said he would be happy to 
proceed with the current mortgage in his sole name and doesnt view it to be a new 
Ref: DRN13778273application. Bank of Ireland has said that Mr W could complete a transfer of equity process 
and that they would consider the borrowing based  on Mr W taking the mortgage on his own. 
I understand why Mr W has said he doesnt  think this is a new application, but Bank  of 
Ireland need to assess his ability to afford the mortgage on his own without  the joint party.  I 
know in this case that Mr W has said hes been  paying the mortgage himself for some  time, 
but that still presents a different risk to Bank  of Ireland from the original lending proposal.  So 
I dont think theyve acted  unfairly by asking Mr W to complete the transfer  of equity process.  
Having considered everything, I dont think that Bank of Ireland has acted unfairly  and so I 
wont be recommending  that it do anything further in this case. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1377827