K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that the workmanship of an engineer  sent by Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA)  when he called on it under his home  emergency  insurance policy  was 
poor, resulting in damage to his property. He is represented in bringing this complaint by his 
wife, Mrs H.
background
Mr H had a home emergency insurance policy with RSA. In June 2018 he found  that water  
was escaping constantly through an overflow  from a water tank in his loft to outside his 
property. So he called  on RSA under  his policy for assistance.
RSA sent an engineer  who identified that the ball valve in the water tank had split. He 
replaced this, which  stopped  the leaking. Mr and Mrs H went away for a few days. When 
they returned they found that water was leaking through the ceiling on to their stairway 
damaging the ceiling,  carpets and wallpaper.
They called RSA who sent a second  engineer.  He found the joint between  the replacement  
ball valve and the water tank was leaking.  He fitted  a fibre washer and tightened the joint.
Mr H complained to RSA. He said there wasnt any damage to his property  before  the first 
engineer replaced  the ball valve. So he thought  RSA should meet the cost of repairing the 
damage. He obtained estimates  for this ranging from £2,860 to £4,420.
In support,  he sent RSA a report he had commissioned from an independent firm of 
plumbing and heating engineers, which said as follows:
From my inspection, I can see no previous signs of a leak from the ballvalve/service valve.  
There is no staining/scale on outside  of tank and no staining on the tank base or signs  of 
water saturation. 
Looking at the two [engineers] reports and evidence of leak, I believe it's fair to conclude 
that the first engineer,  either did not renew  the service valve  washer, did not tighten the 
connection or renewed the washer  but did not tighten connection.
I can only assume/highly  suspect that the first engineer  did not check/test the work before  
leaving the job.
As previously stated, there are no signs commonly associated with there having been  a 
previous leak on these components.
My conclusion is that first engineers work is responsible for the leak and the damage it 
caused to the ceiling and wall.
RSA didnt accept  responsibility for rectifying  the damage. It said its first engineer  had tested 
everything before he left the property, and there  wasnt a leak then. RSA said the tank filling 
could have disturbed the ball valve and caused the leak. It pointed  to the following term in 
the policy booklet:
Claims Settlement Exclusions
Ref: DRN15431112We will not pay for any losses which  are indirectly associated with the incident  that caused  
you to claim unless caused by our negligence or that of our agents  or loss of earnings  due to 
time taken  off work  to deal with the incident
RSA advised Mr H to claim on his household insurance policy.  It offered to pay him £150, 
being half the excess he would have to pay on any claim on that policy. It offered a further 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience  he had suffered. Mr H didnt accept this offer and 
complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  it more  
likely than not that RSAs first engineer  did cause  the leak to the connection between the 
water tank and the ball valve.  He said that in these situations we would expect an insurer to 
arrange to repair the damage that was caused.  
He didnt think the £300 RSA had offered was enough to put Mr H back in the position he 
would have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. He recommended  that RSA should:
contact Mr Hs home insurance provider and explain RSA was responsible for the 
claim for the water damage to Mr Hs house;
arrange to reimburse  Mr Hs home insurance provider for its outlay relating to the 
claim for the water damage;
ask Mr Hs home insurance provider to remove any record of the claim;
reimburse the £300 excess Mr H paid to make a claim on his home  insurance  policy;
pay 8% simple interest on the excess payment from the date Mr H made a claim on 
his home  insurance until the date of settlement; and
pay Mr H £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr H accepted the investigators recommendation. RSA responded to say, in summary, that:
there was a strong possibility that the leak which Mr H first reported had already 
caused water damage to his property;
the first engineer  said he hadnt  been  working  in the area where the second engineer 
found the leak; and
it couldnt be determined what damage was caused by the first leak,  and what  
damage was caused by the second leak.
It didnt agree to do what the investigator  had suggested in relation to Mr Hs home 
insurance provider.  It thought the offer it had made previously was fair, but it did agree to 
add 8% interest to the half of the excess it had said it would  refund.
The investigator said his view remained unchanged. Mr H had said he first called RSA 
because the water tank in his loft was overfilling causing water to escape constantly through 
a correctly operating  external overflow. This was evidenced by the first engineers contact 
notes which  said:
engineer- ball valve split due to wear and tear causing to overflow  outside
So he didnt think the initial leak caused  any damage inside Mr Hs home.
The investigator also thought that as the first engineer replaced the ball valve  mechanism, 
he was responsible for ensuring the connection  to the water tank was sound. The second 
Ref: DRN15431113engineer had said that if he had replaced  the ball valve, he would have  fitted a fibre washer 
on the connection, which he later did to resolve the second leak.
Finally, the independent  report  which is set out above said there  was no evidence  of any 
previous leak from the ball valve connection. It concluded the first engineer was responsible 
for the second  leak and the damage  it caused for the reasons set out in the report.
As RSA didnt accept  the investigators  recommendation, this complaint has been  passed  to 
me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come  to the same  conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.  In circumstances such as these, we find evidence  from an 
independent source to be particularly persuasive.
Until the first engineer  attended Mr Hs home,  there is no evidence that any water  was 
escaping inside the house.  The independent  report supports this, and concludes  that the first 
engineers work was responsible for the second leak and the damage it caused  to the ceiling 
and wall of Mr Hs home.
So I agree that its fair and reasonable that RSA should compensate  Mr H as the investigator 
suggested and as I have set out more fully below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
1.contact Mr Hs home insurance provider and explain RSA was responsible for the 
claim for the water damage to Mr Hs house;
2.arrange to reimburse  Mr Hs home insurance provider for its outlay relating to the 
claim for the water damage;
3.ask Mr Hs home insurance provider to remove any record of the claim;
4.reimburse the £300 excess Mr H paid to make a claim on his home  insurance  policy;
5.pay 8% simple interest on the excess payment from the date Mr H made a claim on 
his home  insurance until the date of settlement; (1) and
6.pay Mr H £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Ref: DRN15431114Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1) If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1543111