K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard  (trading at the time as Egg)      
mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as 
Barclays in my decision.
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr H has said that he thinks he took this PPI policy out during a phone  call and a 
recommendation was made by the business  to take PPI. Based on what Ive seen, I think its 
more likely than not that this sale took place online and no recommendation was made to 
take PPI. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
Barclays have shown  us screenshots that they say are representative of what  Mr H 
would have seen  when applying online.  They show that there would have been an 
option to add PPI or decline PPI. Ive considered these alongside what we know  
more widely about how Barclays  sold PPI online around the time this policy  was sold. 
Ive not seen any supporting evidence to suggest that they didnt follow their normal 
sales process during  this sale.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about  being  pressured into taking PPI. But it 
seems that this sale was completed online without anyone from Barclays  present. 
Ive also not seen anything from the example online  screenshots that could 
reasonably be interpreted as the PPI being  presented as a condition of the 
borrowing. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Barclays  made  Mr H aware that he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr H doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ref: DRN11054752  Which means Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about having to wait 
six months before being able to make  a claim on the policy.  I can confirm  that this is 
incorrect and the waiting period was 30 days. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard does have to pay back  to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1105475