K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that The Plan Group Limited sold him an unsuitable commercial motor  
insurance policy and this led to his theft claim being declined  by the policys underwriter. 
background
Mr H held a policy with the same underwriter  and arranged by The Plan Group  for ten years. 
After his last renewal, his car was stolen. But the underwriter declined  the claim due to a 
policy term. Mr H said he hadnt been  told of this term and he wouldnt have taken out the 
policy if The Plan Group had told him about  it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Mr H had 
been provided with a commercial policy based  on what hed told The Plan Group about his 
profession ten years earlier. He couldnt  see that Mr H had questioned the term in this time. 
And he thought  the term wasnt unusual in motor  trade policies and was brought to Mr Hs 
attention in the policy documents.  So he didnt  think the policy  had been  mis-sold. 
Mr H replied that the sale of the policy was advised but The Plan Group hadnt discussed  
his demands and needs with him. He thought  it should have  discussed  his requirements and 
business with him and then it would have realised that the policy  was unsuitable.  Mr H asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy term that Mr H told us the underwriter relied on to decline  his claim was that theft 
was covered only at the permanent residence  of the insured or partner or in the course of a 
journey. Mr H disputed the insurers interpretation of this term. But thats not something I can 
consider here as The Plan Group wasnt responsible  for declining  the claim. Mr H needs  to 
raise that with the underwriter directly.  
However, I think this is a common exclusion in motor trade insurance policies, and I dont 
think its unusual or unreasonable. But it is significant and I would expect it to be set out in 
the policy wording  and in the summary  or Key Facts document.  Ive seen the Key Facts 
document and I can see that the exclusion is clearly  stated. Its also stated  in the policy  
document. So I think it was sufficiently brought to Mr Hs attention. 
Mr H said The Plan Group  hadnt  discussed  his demands and needs with him in the renewal 
call. He said his personal circumstances had changed when he last renewed his policy.  And 
so he thought The Plan Group should  have discussed his requirements  with him. 
Due to the passage of time, I cant say what was discussed with Mr H when  he first took out 
his policy  ten years earlier. Unfortunately, theres no record of the last renewal call so I cant  
safely say what was discussed at the time.  The Plan Group  said it wouldnt have discussed 
specific details of the cover unless  Mr H had told it of changes  to his business  activities.
Ref: DRN13126352The Plan Group has provided  us with a copy of the script used  by its agents at renewal.  The 
script prompts the agent to confirm that the policy is suitable only for people  actively  
engaged in the motor  trade. It also prompts the agent to say that the motor trade policy  
doesnt cover every  eventuality. 
Mr H said the script  didnt match his recollections of the call or that hed told the agent  about 
his changed circumstances. I cant see that Mr H raised these changes in his complaint 
letters to The Plan Group.  Rather,  I think he made  it clear that he was still engaged in the 
motor trade.  So I think, on balance, it would have been noted  if Mr H had raised his changed 
circumstances at the time of the call and I also think Mr H could have queried this when he 
received his policy documents. 
Mr H also thought The Plan Group should have brought the exclusion to his attention  at his 
last renewal. But I wouldnt expect The Plan Group  to go through every  term and condition  in 
the sales call. Mr H had renewed his policy through  The Plan Group with the same insurer  
for ten years. So I think he reasonably had time to review the policy terms and conditions to 
ensure that it met his needs. But I cant see that he raised any concerns with The Plan 
Group during  this time.  
So, I think Mr H had his cover arranged  by The Plan Group with the same insurer for ten 
years. I think the exclusion from cover  is clearly set out in the Key Facts and policy 
document. So I think Mr H was made aware of the scope of the cover provided  by the policy. 
I cant see that Mr H questioned the extent  of his cover.  I cant see evidence  that Mr H told 
The Plan Group of changes to his circumstances or that his requirements had changed at 
the last renewal. So I cant say that The Plan Group  mis-sold  the policy to Mr H. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1312635