K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained  about her home insurer, Acromas Insurance Company Limited. She 
thinks it handled her fire claim badly.
background
There was a fire on 22 January 2016. When Mrs P contacted Acromas it said it wanted to 
investigate the matter. It was April before  Acromas  said it would accept the claim. By June 
little progress had been made on the claim and in July 2016 Mrs P appointed  a loss 
assessor.
Acromas had arranged  for its specialist company to remove, list and dispose of damaged 
items. And to clear  salvageable  items  from the property.  During  this process,  in June 2016, 
cracks were found. Acromas investigated whether there was subsidence. Its expert  went out 
in August 2016 and its report was dated  31 August  2016. On 13 September  2016 Mrs Ps 
loss assessor wrote  to her explaining  the results of the subsidence  investigations and that 
shed have to get the related repairs resolved separately to the fire damage  and outside of 
the insurance cover.
The loss assessor  also advised that it had received the tenders  for reinstatement work and it 
would assess them before sending to Acromas. When  Acromas loss adjuster received  them  
he felt there were some  issues but Acromas directed they be authorised. It wanted  its 
specialist to finish clearing the property so work could  begin. Its specialist  couldnt  do that so 
Mrs P and her husband did.
As work  progressed it was noted  work  likely wouldnt complete in the original time allowed 
due to delays with clearing the property. It was agreed that the funding for alternative living  
accommodation would continue for a further  month  to 13 April 2017.
Prior to the family returning home  Mrs P had already complained to Acromas  and this 
service. On 27 March  2017 Mrs P advised  that flooring was still to be laid. We got in touch  
with Acromas and in October  2017 it issued a further final response.
Acromas noted it had offered a total of £400 in its previous final responses.  Those 
responses had noted  delays  regarding  initial claim investigations but felt that no other errors 
had been made. In its current response  it said that the involvement  of Mrs Ps loss assessor 
meant its control and influence over the claim  since  had been limited.  It wasnt  minded to 
offer any further compensation.
Mrs P remained unhappy and provided a list of outstanding issues. Our investigator 
considered everything  and said that whilst many points werent for Acromas to answer,  it had 
caused delays.  Our investigator said Acromas should pay a total of £1,000 compensation.
Acromas indicated it wasnt  entirely happy with our investigators findings but said it would 
pay the compensation suggested. Mrs P disagreed  with our investigators findings.
The complaint was passed  to me for consideration. I felt there wasnt enough information on 
file for me to make a decision so I asked Acromas for some  more detail. It took a while for 
this to be provided. When I received its responses it was apparent to me that some of my 
questions still remained unanswered. But I did feel able to make a provisional decision based 
Ref: DRN14252332on the evidence  that was available.  The parties have now responded to that. My provisional  
findings are below, along with details of the parties responses and my replies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision I explained:
Ive kept the background brief and Ill do the same, as far as possible, with my findings  
below. But I can assure both parties that I have taken into account everything thats 
happened.
I went on to say:
initial investigations
I understand why Acromas felt it was necessary to look into this incident in more  detail. And 
interviewing both Mrs P and her husband  was reasonable in my view. It maybe  shouldnt  
have been done at the insured address, given the state of the property, and the process 
shouldnt have been so protracted, but Im not going  to criticise Acromas for putting a hold 
on the claim whilst it carried out these investigations.
Mrs P said she understood the need to investigate,  but the length  and manner of the 
interrogation was unacceptable and unnecessary. Mrs P said she was particularly unhappy 
that the possibility of the interviews being  used during  court proceedings wasnt fully 
explained at the outset.
Outside of the statements that were  taken, I cant know what was said between  the parties  
during the course of the interviews,  or how the interviewer conducted  himself.  But it is 
sometimes the case that insurers dont say very much about this type of interview;  exactly 
why it feels such is needed or what is going to be discussed. Thats because they are 
investigating the claim and often want to achieve  unrehearsed answers  to their questions. 
I appreciated that it was upsetting for Mrs P to learn  these  interviews  might  be used in court 
proceedings  but, regardless of how the answers  were to be used, Mrs P had to provide 
honest answers to the best of her ability. So knowing how they might be used shouldnt have 
changed how she viewed  or participated in the process.
My provisional findings continued:
talking to neighbours
I cant know what was said during such conversations. And concerns over personal data 
being breached are dealt with by the Information Commissioner. But I think  it was 
reasonable for enquiries with the neighbours to be made.
Mrs P said that it was the content of the conversation, as confirmed by the neighbour, that 
concerns her. She thinks the content and thrust  of the enquiries  was inappropriate and is 
concerned that her neighbours  found it worrying too. 
Ref: DRN14252333I understand that Mrs P is upset by this. However, this service  is an informal one  we cant 
compel witnesses or hear testimony under  oath in the way that a court  can. And I cant take 
any worry caused to or suffered by the neighbours interviewed by Acromas into account 
either. I remain  of the view that it was reasonable for Acromas to make  enquiries with 
Mrs Ps neighbours.
My provisional findings continued:
after the claim was accepted
Little activity seemed to occur in the months  immediately after the claim was accepted. It 
was accepted on 21 April 2016 but a loss adjuster wasnt appointed until May and then by 
June little had happened. Some clearance  work began in June and that was when cracks 
were found.  There was then a delay with the crack  damage being assessed.  That shouldnt 
have taken until August.  I can understand why Mrs P sought assistance from a loss 
assessor. In declining  that the cracks were caused by subsidence,  Acromas  relied  upon  its 
experts consideration. I think that was reasonable.
Mrs P said it took too long for Acromas  to look into the crack  damage. She also said its 
findings were wrong and she spent £800 on getting  a report from her own surveyor  in 
respect of the cracks. 
I think Acromas  did cause  delays during this process. But it did need  to check the cracks. 
However, that was only ever in respect  of whether they were caused  by subsidence. Beyond  
that it didnt need to give any idea as to cause and it would always  have been up to Mrs P to 
investigate further.  Whilst its unfortunate that here that resulted in her incurring a cost in the 
midst of everything else that was going  on, that isnt something I can lay at Acromas door.
I also provisionally commented on Mr and Mrs P clearing the property, as well as laundry 
and boxed contents items, and the carpets.
Acromas, for example,  was unable to get its specialist in to complete the work of emptying 
the property. Mrs P had to arrange and do this herselfAcromas to date hasnt provided 
compensation for this. I think £750 seems  like a fair sum but Ill hear comments  from both 
parties in response.
Mrs P had to clean and/or replace smoke damaged clothes, and there were a number of 
boxes of contents items that were  considered  beyond repair.  Mrs Ps loss assessor 
submitted costs for settlement to Acromas but when I asked it what had happened in these 
respects it didnt answer my question. If these issues remain outstanding Ill need Mrs P, in 
response to this decision, to give me details of what settlement she is looking for. Ill then 
consider what I think Acromas should pay.
Mrs P says the settlement in this respect  was too little and Acromas had said that the 
original carpet grippers had to be re-used. Mrs P said these had been  disposed of. I havent 
seen detail about the settlement. If Mrs P wants me to look at this shell have to provide 
detail and evidence  in response to this decision.  Acromas will also need  to do the same.  But 
it may be that if the loss assessor agreed the settlement for the carpets, I wont  be able to 
consider this aspect  further.
However, following  my provisional findings being  issued I was provided with information  that 
showed that all of these issues had been subject to the negotiated settlement agreement  
Ref: DRN14252334achieved by Mrs Ps loss assessor.  I explained  to both parties  that, in light of this new 
evidence I couldnt  fairly  or reasonably require Acromas to do anything more  in these 
respects; a  full and final settlement had been negotiated and agreed which I couldnt ignore. 
Mrs P said the house wasnt completely reinstated when they returned, that this was largely  
because Acromas had refused five different quotes  and theyd had to put their own money in 
to replace carpets. Whilst I understand how frustrated Mr and Mrs P are at this whole 
situation I cant reasonably blame Acromas for everything. It wasnt responsible  for 
completing repairs and if the loss assessor  failed to obtain a good  enough  settlement to be 
able to carry out all of the works effectively, and/or carried out poor repairs, that isnt 
something I can reasonably blame Acromas for. If settlement hadnt been agreed I could 
have looked at whether Acromas had made fair offers  but the settlement, agreed between  
Acromas loss adjuster  and Mrs Ps professional loss assessor, takes the situation beyond 
that point. I know Mrs P only acted in the best way she could in the awful situation she was 
in but the loss assessors acceptance  of offers and settlements made  by Acromas cant  fairly  
be overlooked  or overturned. Im not going to make Acromas do anything  more in these 
respects.
My provisional findings also looked at a similar  issue regarding  the rooms  Mrs P expected to 
be repaired:
The repair  settlement was negotiated between Acromas and the loss assessor. So there is 
little I can reasonably review  in this respect.  And I dont  have a working summary of what  
was agreed and what wasnt which, if I was able to look at this, Id need to see. What I do 
note though is that during the first assessment of the property, and the reports  given by both 
Mr and Mrs P, most doors in the property were closed at the time of the fire and two of the 
bedrooms were noted to have no visible signs of damage. So if the settlement has been 
reduced this may account for that. Ultimately though the loss assessor submitted tenders 
which he felt covered  the reinstatement work necessary as a result of the fire and Acromas  
accepted those.
Mrs P said rooms had disappeared from the schedule and whilst the attic room was agreed it 
was never  cleaned. 
I appreciate Mrs Ps frustration but my response is similar to that in respect of the section 
above; Mrs Ps loss assessor handled the reinstatement process, including  negotiating  and 
agreeing the works and settlement for them. I cant fairly and reasonably  go beyond that in 
respect of a complaint against Acromas.
I made  other  provisional findings:
loss assessors involvement
Just because  a loss assessor becomes involved doesnt necessarily mean an insurer has no 
further liability for claim handling.  In this case the loss assessor  took over the repairs  so any 
poor work reasonably doesnt fall at Acromas  door.  But its still possible for Acromas to be 
responsible for delays.
Acromas, for example,  was unable to get its specialist in to complete the work of emptying 
the property. Mrs P had to arrange and do this herself. I understand this took longer than it 
would have for a team of specialists.
Ref: DRN14252335It is also apparent that on more than one occasion there were  delays with claim payments 
being made to the loss assessor. And Mrs P points  out that there  was also a delay in costs 
for flooring being authorised, which meant the flooring  was only just being laid at the end of 
March 2017.
So I think Acromas  did contribute to works not completing on time. I havent seen any 
evidence though that family were unable to return home in April. Or that they did but to 
unsuitable living conditions. If that were the case Id need to consider how much  of a role 
Acromas played in that, given that most of the control for the works was with the loss 
assessor.
Acromas said that once Mrs P instructed her own loss assessor,  it was no longer in control  
of the claim. It said it hadnt caused  any delays  during the period Mrs Ps loss assessor was 
involved.
Mrs P confirmed that every action  her loss assessor wanted to make had to be checked and 
verified by Acromas loss adjuster  the latter remained very much involved. Mrs P said she 
and her family did face the prospect of being homeless when Acromas confirmed that the 
rental property wouldnt  be renewed  again  and works at their home werent complete.
Whilst I understand that it was upsetting for Mrs P to face this prospect, I havent seen 
evidence that she and the family actually ended up being unable to move  back  home, or that 
the home was, at that time, uninhabitable. Mrs P references curtains and carpets not being 
able to be installed, and parts of the house not being usable. But, whilst its uncomfortable to 
live in a home in that state, it doesnt  mean  its unsuitable to live in (uninhabitable). Moving 
furniture and belongings back would make completion more difficult. But its quite normal for 
a family  to move home before all the final finishing reinstatement work completes, and 
sometimes even with not all the rooms complete. I remain  of the view though  that 
reinstatement would  have run more  smoothly, and likely concluded quicker,  if Acromas  had 
handled things  better.  
My provisional findings continued:
alternative accommodation
Mrs P says she was given  no help in finding  suitable  accommodation  but was told the price 
per month was capped  at £1,000. Acromas says it never gave that advice. I think  its likely 
that Acromas was responsible for suggesting a suitable price  to Mrs P as its loss adjusters 
report notes a discussion whereby Mr P was told suitable accommodation had been found at
£850 per month.
That being said an insurer doesnt have to assist  with finding accommodation and I havent  
seen that Mrs P, when  she felt nothing  like her own home could be found  for £1,000 per 
month, sought to challenge Acromas. Im also mindful that whilst the policy  gives  cover for 
staying somewhere like your home, sometimes compromises have to be made as there isnt 
always an availability of properties in a desired area that are exactly  like your home.  So 
whilst I understand it wasnt desirable  for Mr and Mrs P to live in a property with fewer 
bedrooms than their home, I havent seen  that this was unreasonable  in the circumstances 
or something  I can reasonably say occurred  due to a fault of Acromas.
Mrs P said they did challenge  the cap but Acromas  insisted  it applied and they had no 
reason not to believe that. She said itd only book the hotel for a week  at a time and kept 
Ref: DRN14252336chasing her to see if a rental property had been  found. She took the smaller property 
because of the pressure she was put under by Acromas. This turned out to be damp, cold 
and dirty.  In addition they had to fund the deposit  themselves and when they asked for it 
back, this took some  time.  
I dont have details  of phone calls made  where the cap was discussed  or any sign that 
Mrs P provided proof to Acromas  such as rental  listings  to show  that something similar 
couldnt be found. But my point remains that Acromas didnt need to assist  Mrs P with finding 
somewhere suitable and I can understand why it would have wanted the family to move  out 
of costly hotel accommodation.  Whilst I accept that Mrs P felt pressured in this respect 
I cant reasonably blame Acromas for the state of the house that Mrs P chose to agree to 
move into. 
Its also not unusual  for the policyholder to have to fund the deposit  themselves. Thats  
because the deposit is paid against  ensuring the house is looked after during the tenancy,  
which is something the insurer has no control over.  If the deposit wasnt  returned in a timely 
manner by the landlord or letting agent,  I cant reasonably blame  Acromas  for that as it 
wasnt a party to the letting agreement.
My provisional findings continued:
compensation
Im satisfied that Acromas  has caused delays throughout this claim.  I understand that its 
apparent lack of support  was, at times,  distressing for Mrs P. I know though a lot of 
frustration has stemmed from the poor work that was completed at Mrs Ps home and, 
because of the involvement of the loss assessor,  Acromas wasnt  responsible for that. For 
the upset I think Acromas  did cause I think £1,000  compensation is fairly and reasonably  
due.
Acromas initially suggested that some  compensation  payments had already been received 
by Mrs P. But when pushed for confirmation  of the payments it noted that these  had been  
sent in the form of cheques which hadnt  been  cashed and were now out of date. It reiterated 
its point about  not being  wholly  responsible  for the delays because  of the involvement of 
Mrs Ps loss assessor. Mrs P made  no further  comment.
Im satisfied by what Ive said provisionally,  as well as what Ive seen during my final review 
 Acromas did fail Mrs P in some  respects and distress and inconvenience was caused. 
I accepted provisionally,  and still do, that Acromas wasnt responsible for everything that 
went on and that Mrs Ps loss assessor  carried out and was in control of the reinstatement 
works to her home. Im satisfied that £1,000 compensation is fairly and reasonably  due by 
Acromas to make up for its part in the upset  suffered.
council tax
In response to my provisional findings  Mrs P mentioned a concern regarding  council  tax. 
This wasnt mentioned  earlier in her complaint and I havent seen that shes  addressed it 
with Acromas before.  Ill not make any findings  about it here; if Mrs P wants  to follow this up 
with Acromas shes free to do so. 
Ref: DRN14252337my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mrs P £1,000  
compensation for the upset caused by its delays and poor claims handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1425233