K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2003  a few months after taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage in branch in August 2003. The PPI policy  started at the end of 
October 2003. Due to the time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs H applied for 
their PPI policy  Mr and Mrs H think they applied for the policy in branch; St Andrews says 
it cant say for sure but has assumed the policy was arranged over the phone.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs H for disability and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay up to £164.06  the benefit  was split equally 
between Mr and Mrs H  in the event of a successful  claim. Claims would be paid into the 
account from which they paid for the policy. At the time, it cost £9.95  a month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as an engineer.  He has told us told us he was entitled  to full 
pay for a couple of weeks, followed  by statutory sick pay. He says hed had recurring 
migraines since the 1970s which sometimes meant he had to take one or two days off work. 
Mrs H was employed in care support. She has told us she was entitled to full pay for six 
months and half pay for a further six months  if she was off work sick. She was also entitled 
to redundancy  pay. Mrs H has said shed taken a week of work in around  1992 with a back  
problem. 
St Andrews  has sent us screenshots to show that Mr and Mrs H took out a new mortgage  
contract in June 2006.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN13232362The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The mortgage was with a third party and not St Andrews   and I understand that Mr and Mrs 
H arranged a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became regulated in 
October 2004 which led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA regulated mortgage. That 
means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN13232363This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like St 
Andrews, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN13232364Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Based on the information Ive seen, the PPI didnt start at the same time as the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the mortgage  in August 2003, and the mortgage began  in 
September 2003. The PPI didnt begin until the end of October, and St Andrews sent 
Mr and Mrs H confirmation that it had set up the direct debit for the insurance on 3 
November. I also note St Andrews records show that the policy  was cancelled in 2007, but 
the mortgage account kept running. So I think its likely  Mr and Mrs H knew  that the policy  
was separate  from their mortgage and that they didnt have to have it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs H. This means St Andrews had 
to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps St Andrews  took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. 
There is no specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps to establish whether Mr and 
Mrs H would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations which might  
have meant  the policy did not fully meet their needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded St Andrews advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either of them  werent for an extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay 
they both say they would  have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which  would 
Ref: DRN13232365have made  it difficult for them to claim.  Although Mr and Mrs H have mentioned 
medical conditions  theyd had before the PPI was taken out, the policy  didnt exclude 
cover for pre-existing conditions. And I havent seen anything to suggest they would  
have been caught by the other significant  exclusions.
-
-While  there were  other limits  to the cover  provided by the policy,  including  a condition 
that to claim for accident and sickness Mr and Mrs H be unable to do not just their 
own job but any paid work which their experience, education or training qualified 
them to do, a requirement that they be disabled or unemployed for 30 days  before 
they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 24 months for each claim,  the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
-
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs H be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Mr and Mrs H say that Mrs H was approaching  state pension  age, and so wouldnt be 
covered beyond that point. But based on what Ive seen, Mrs H was at least  nine years from 
retirement, and so the policy  would have provided cover  until then. I think that the policy  
offered a reasonable period of cover  - and note that Mr and Mrs H in fact cancelled  the 
policy before  then.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs H 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what St Andrews was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs H were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded St 
Andrews did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs H all 
of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN13232366Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrewss shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policy,  had St Andrews done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded St Andrews took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if St Andrews had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN13232367weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when St Andrews advised them that there 
was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the 
event they were unable to work  because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, the information  Ive seen doesnt show whether St Andrews told 
them the exact premium at the point Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having said that, it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs H would have been  told the cost before the policy started  and they 
paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly  at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with St Andrews at 
the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the conversation in which they agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  St Andrews made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs H would  get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Hs expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs H werent  permanent  employees.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs H be 
unable to do their own job, or any paid work  which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN13232368But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs H were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs H wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 the policy  didnt exclude pre-existing medical  conditions and both Mr and Mrs H were in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
H might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs H from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs H, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any other paid work which in the insurers view they might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would have  done.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr and Mrs H were unable  (through disability) to carry on 
their own occupation  the chances that they would be able to take up another  occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 24 months  was a longer period than Mr and Mrs H would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if either Mr or Mrs H were  made redundant,  
or unable  to work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  
than not Mr and Mrs H would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN13232369That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of St Andrews statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs H, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN132323610my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 February  2021.
Rebecca Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1323236