K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr B says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
HSBC hasnt got any of the original paperwork completed at the time of the sale. And it cant  
confirm to us how Mr B took out the credit card and was sold the PPI. It couldve been in a 
branch, over the telephone or by post using a postal  application.
Mr B told us in the questionnaire that he could recall nothing  about the sale of the credit  card 
and PPI. He also wasnt sure of his circumstances at the time. 
But however  it was sold, I note Mr B took out the credit card in 2006  and the PPI remained 
on his account  for many  years.  The PPI premiums would have appeared on his statements 
as purchases.  So if it was something he didnt want, know  about or agree to, Id expect him 
to have questioned the premiums at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that he 
did so.
Overall I think  HSBC  likely made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Ive assumed HSBC  recommended  the PPI to Mr B as this places more  responsibility on the 
business. It means HSBC  had to check that the PPI was right for him.
Mr B has not been able to give us any details of his circumstances. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover.  He has told us for example that he didnt have any medical conditions  that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr B could not recall  if hed get any sick pay from his employer. But the PPI sold to Mr B 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work.  Itd also pay a 
monthly benefit if he lost his job. And this benefit is likely to have  been  of use to Mr B if he 
lost his job or couldnt work.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN13865452But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1386545