K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1996 Mr B took out a mortgage during a branch visit. At the same time he also took out 
PPI designed  to protect his mortgage payments in the event he was made  unemployed (he 
didnt take out accident  and sickness cover.)
The policy cost around £4 a month and it provided  a monthly  benefit  of around £130.  And it 
would do so for up to nine months  per claim.
CBSs records show the mortgage account  ended in 2008.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought the evidence  showed Mr 
B was given  a choice  about PPI and he chose and agreed to take it out. And there was 
nothing to indicate the policy was mis-sold.
They also said CBSs offer to refund part of the commission and profit share  Mr B paid as 
part of his premiums  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B disagrees. He says he was told he had to have PPI to get the mortgage but that he 
didnt need it because of his existing  means and wider circumstances at the time. He also 
says the commission  refund  isnt fair  he says he wants more back.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Firstly  I can see Mr B says CBS advised or recommended  he take out PPI. CBS has not 
been so definite about things  it cant be certain whether it did or not. This was a branch 
sale where Mr B would have had a meeting with a business representative. So in light of this 
and to be fair to Mr B - in some ways it puts him in a more favourable position  Im going to 
decide this complaint on the basis CBS recommended PPI to Mr B. 
This means  CBS had to ensure the policy was suitable  for him and it had to give him enough  
clear and timely information  about the recommended cover  so he could decide  if he wanted 
to go ahead or not.
did CBS make it clear to Mr B that PPI was optional  did he have a choice  about 
things? 
Ref: DRN12785352I can see that this is Mr Bs primary complaint point  he says he was effectively told PPI 
was compulsory. Ive therefore considered this point carefully.
CBS says PPIs never been a condition of its lending  and its provided some paperwork from 
the time  this includes Mr Bs mortgage application  form from 1996.
Looking at this I can see the application  contained  a separate  section titled Payment 
Protection Insurance and it provided  a number of tick boxes for completion.  The first box 
said: I wish to apply  for CBS Mortgage  Payment Protection and have  completed  the 
application form overleaf
There was then a choice of level of cover  from unemployment only to unemployment and 
accident and sickness.
The final box said: I do not require CBS Mortgage  Payment  Protection
Mr B  or the representative if he completed  the form on behalf of Mr B  has ticked the first 
box to apply for cover and the unemployment  only cover  option is ticked too. Mr B signed the 
overall mortgage application.
While a copy of Mr Bs separate  PPI application form is no longer available,  Mr B wouldve 
been required to complete  one  this wouldve been  sent to the insurer along with a signed 
direct debit mandate so the policy was set up and the premiums  taken.
So in carefully weighing  up what both parties  have said and provided, while I hear what  Mr B 
says happened, Im not persuaded that the evidence supports what he says.  I think the 
evidence shows more  likely than not that Mr B was given a choice whether to take out the 
cover  there were  Yes and No options - as well as being given a choice about the level of 
cover required.
If PPI was compulsory  or the adviser  said that it was  then I mightve expected the higher 
level of cover to have been  selected on the application. By selecting the unemployment only 
cover, this suggests  to me there  was some   level of discussion about Mr Bs needs  
particularly as Mr B has told us he had a good  level of sick pay (I will expand  on this 
particular point later on.)
So overall I think Mr B chose to take out PPI and he did so without undue pressure.
was PPI suitable?
While I dont know what, or if CBS took reasonable steps to ensure PPI was suitable  for 
Mr B, in light of his circumstances and needs  at the time I think it was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the cover.
he was employed, so there were no unusual employment circumstances at play,  
which might  have  made the policy unsuitable.
Mr B says he had generous sick pay  12 months. And this is likely why Mr B didnt 
choose or was recommended  to not have the accident and sickness  element of cover  
- only the unemployment cover.
Ref: DRN12785353Mr B has said he had savings and a member  of his family ran a business,  so 
employment was always available  to him. But neither of these things in my view 
made the policy unsuitable. The policy wouldve paid out alongside  any existing 
means, which wouldve  allowed Mr B to hold back any savings or allow him to use 
them to meet other ongoing household expenditure. And I dont think a reliance  on 
family for employment  can reasonably  be described  as guaranteed or be sufficient 
reason not to recommend  protection.
the policy at £4 a month was not a significant cost and it appears to have been 
affordable.
the policy was a regular premium policy, so it couldve been cancelled  at any time 
and without penalty.
the information
I accept that its possible  CBS didnt do all that it should fairly and reasonably  have done and 
provided Mr B with enough clear and timely information about the policy  - including the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover. The evidence isnt sufficient for me to 
conclude otherwise. But for the reasons Ive given above as to why I think  the policy  was 
right or suitable for Mr B, I dont think Mr B wouldve changed his mind about  taking out PPI 
if CBS had done anything more.
So in light of my findings  above, I find it wasnt wrong for CBS to have recommended PPI to 
Mr B - this means that CBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
commission and profit  share
But CBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because : 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  CBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, CBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Mr B says he should receive  the entire commission and profit  share back because  only 
being offered  half is an insult. But CBS has done  what the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Bs particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means CBS should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling CBS to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
CBS has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  CBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
Ref: DRN12785354So in Mr Bs particular  case CBS should pay back to Mr B the extra  he paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. CBS 
should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs PPI mis-sale complaint  
so Coventry Building  Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium as Ive detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1278535