K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of a single premium payment protection  insurance 
policy (PPI) taken out with a £5,000 personal  loan in 2003. The loan was intended to run for 
36 months.
Mrs H and Mr E say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them PPI with the loan because  
they dont recall ever agreeing to it and they didnt need PPI.
background
Nationwide sold Mrs H and Mr E a single premium PPI policy alongside their joint loan. It 
offered protection against Mr E losing his job or being unable to work.  Mrs  H wasnt 
covered.
The policy cost £450 and Mrs H and Mr E had to pay the full cost of the PPI up front. They  
also borrowed the money to pay for the PPI premium from Nationwide.  
Our adjudicator recommended  we shouldnt  uphold this complaint but Mrs H and Mr E 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mrs H and Mr Es complaint.
These events obviously  took place a long time ago and so I can understand how difficult it 
might be for Mrs H and Mr E to remember exactly what happened. However,  my experience 
of these types of loan is that they were first discussed over the phone  or at a branch,  with a 
credit agreement then sent out or given  to the consumer(s), based on that discussion.  The 
consumer was invited  to check and sign the agreement  and return it to Nationwide.  
Nationwide says this was a telephone sale.
Ive looked carefully  at the original credit  agreement in this case. In relation to the PPI, it has 
Optional Credit Insurance clearly  written on it. So I think Mrs H and Mr E would have been 
able to understand the PPI wasnt something they needed to buy if they didnt want  to. 
Mrs H and Mr E both signed the agreement so I think they consented to the PPI.
Nationwide had a responsibility to give Mrs H and Mr E enough information so they could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to buy PPI cover  with their loan. But this 
wasnt an advised sale so it was for Mrs H and Mr E to decide for themselves what they 
wanted to do. And overall, I think Nationwide  provided enough information. 
I say this because  the amount (including interest) of both the loan and PPI part of the loan 
was set out on the agreement, as was the amount theyd have to pay each  month. In my 
view, this was done  prominently.  The agreement also showed who was covered and for 
what. So I think Mrs H and Mr E had enough information to decide  what they wanted to do.
Ref: DRN11716822Even if I accept that Nationwide  could have probably  set things out more clearly, I dont think  
this would have  mattered to whether or not Mrs H and Mr E wouldve still bought  the policy.  
This is because the evidence  points to them wanting the cover.  Mr E also appears  to have 
been eligible for the PPI and I dont think that hed have been  caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. We do sometimes see cases  where self-
employed people  can have some difficulties in making a claim for unemployment. But having 
looked carefully at the particular PPI policy Mr E was sold,  I think  hed have been eligible to 
make such  a claim.
So in the event of a successful claim for accident  / sickness, the policy  could have met the 
loan repayments  until the loan was repaid.  And if hed become unemployed, he could have 
claimed for up to 12 months. I think all these things show the cover was of use. 
In summary,  I think the evidence shows Mrs H and Mr E agreed to have this PPI policy when 
they were asking for the loan. I think the way the cover was then described for them and how 
the costs were disclosed wouldve allowed them to see they had options and what  they were 
required to pay. The PPI policy ran for the same  length of time as the loan and if cashed in 
early, a proportionate  refund was applied.  
Im afraid I dont think this PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Es complaint or direct 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H and Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1171682