K820x#14complaint
H CIC (a community  interest company) represented by Ms C, a director and signatory on the 
account, complains about  the way she has been treated in a National Westminster Bank Plc 
branch and says its discriminated  against  her on account of her disability.
background
Ms C says that the staff in a NatWest branch treated her unfairly  and without consideration 
when she was conducting business on behalf  of H CIC. She says, for example, that theyve 
harassed her by repeatedly telling her to use online banking which she doesnt want  to do. 
Shes been told to use the phone or to go into a room when its known she cannot do so 
because of her disability. And NatWest hasnt made reasonable  adjustments  for her needs. 
She wants compensation for this, the emotional  upset  shes been caused  and time spent 
complaining. 
NatWest apologised  in its final response  for some elements of the service Ms C had been 
given in branch.  It said it hadnt intended to cause any offence. Ms C was given some wrong 
information about the branch being  cash only. A transaction amount had been incorrectly  
keyed in but this was identified at the time. It had credited  the account with £150 
compensation as an apology  for what had happened. And the branch manager had been 
told of her particular needs.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
We cant make a finding on whether discrimination and a breach of the Equality Act 
2010 have occurred. Thats a matter for the courts.
NatWest has explained why it asks a customer to go into a private room to make  
transactions. And it doesnt appear  to have treated Ms C any differently to anyone 
else by asking her to do so. There werent  notes at the time saying she wasnt able to 
do this. It also made a reasonable adjustment by allowing her to remain  at the 
counter.
NatWest has paid £150 compensation for the customer  service  Ms C received in 
branch which  mightve made  her feel upset including the welcome she received, 
incorrectly keying a transaction and incorrectly saying  the branch was cash  only. 
NatWest has also updated its notes about  Ms C not being able to go into a closed 
room and not being asked about  online banking again.
She cant agree NatWest has treated Ms C unreasonably. The compensation paid is 
fair and she cant ask NatWest to do any more including paying more  compensation.
Ms C remains unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary she says she 
wasnt asked to go into another room. She was told to. What she said was repeated back  to 
her in a loud and accusatory way. The whole tone of the transactions  was not what she 
expected. She wants to know  if NatWest staff receive any equalities or diversity  training. She 
just wants to be able to feel safe when  she visits the bank and to be able to conduct  her 
business without  being bullied.
Ref: DRN11066032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is brought by H CIC and concerns the way NatWest  has dealt with its 
representative and director Ms C when she was in a branch conducting  business  on its 
behalf.
I have no doubt  that Ms C was upset by some  aspects of the way she was dealt with in the 
branch. But it is H CIC which is the consumer and NatWests customer  here.  And I can only 
award compensation, if Im minded to do so, to the eligible complainant who in this case is H 
CIC and not its representative  Ms C.
As its not possible for a community interest  company to suffer distress,  trouble or upset  I 
cannot require  NatWest to pay compensation to the company for something it cannot 
experience. 
Ive also no doubt  dealing with this matter  has taken time and effort  on the part of Ms C as 
the representative of H CIC. But I dont agree that I can award  Ms C, its representative, any 
compensation for this.
Furthermore all consumers and their representatives spend some  time and experience  some  
additional inconvenience  in dealing with a complaint  and putting things right.  We wouldnt 
generally recommend  theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably depart from this approach. 
Ms C says NatWest has discriminated against  her because of her disability. But as the 
investigator has said we cannot make  a finding on this. That is a matter for the courts.
Ms C has also questioned what equality and diversity training NatWest staff are given. But 
that isnt something  I can consider as it relates to NatWests relationship  with its employees.
We also arent a regulator and we cant require a business to change its practices and 
procedures. General issues about  how the banking industry works are a matter for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Even so NatWest has accepted it couldve dealt with Ms C better  and apologised for some  
poor customer service. And its already  credited £150 compensation to H CICs account.
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I cant fairly or reasonably now require it to do or pay 
anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H CIC, through its 
director and representative, Ms C, to accept  or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1106603