K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of D, a limited company, about numerous customer service  
problems involving Bank of Scotland plc.
background
Mr H is the sole director of D. D has a business account and two loan accounts  with Bank of 
Scotland. Over  the years,  but particularly recently,  Mr H has raised a large number of 
complaints with the bank (receiving 14 final response letters),  and has brought  five 
complaints about  the bank to this Service. This complaint  is only about the following issues:
1.D received a bank  statement which was addressed to another  firm.
2.Ds bank statements were addressed incorrectly. In 2018 an earlier  complaint about 
this issue was upheld,  and the bank  had paid D £50 and told Mr H it had updated the 
address on its systems.  But Mr H says that the statements continue to be incorrectly  
addressed, and as proof of this he provided a statement  dated  March 2019
3.A statement for another of Ds accounts  was also sent to the wrong address in 
January 2019.
4.Mr H asked the bank  for copies  of Ds statements, which  he needed  to file the 
companys annual accounts. He says he had to keep chasing the bank for these, and 
when they finally  arrived they were incomplete. He says that as a result, he was fined 
by Companies House and by HMRC  for filing the accounts late.
5.While  his relationship  manager was on leave  for two weeks,  the standard of 
customer service  he received during phone calls with her colleagues was very poor, 
and he was kept on hold for unreasonable amounts of time.
6.Due to a long-running problem with the banks computer systems, Mr H (along with 
all the banks other customers) was unable to view his accounts  online.
7.When the bank  sent Mr H its response  to his data subject access  request (DSAR) by 
courier, his relationship manager wrongly  advised him not to bother to collect  it. Mr H 
says that his was a deliberate attempt  to deny him the information hed asked for.
Bank of Scotland upheld Mr Hs complaint about points 3, 4 and 5. For these matters the 
bank apologised  and offered to pay D £170, which Mr H declined. The bank did not uphold  
the other complaint points. It said that if another firms statement, correctly addressed, had 
been delivered to D, then that was the mails fault and not the banks. It provided our Service 
with a screenshot showing that Ds address had been updated on the banks systems to the 
correct address in March  2018. It said it had provided Mr H with the statements hed asked 
for in February 2019 and again  in March, and denied that any statements had been missing.  
The manager hadnt meant  to tell Mr H not to collect  his DSAR  response; she had 
mistakenly thought  he was asking about  another package,  which contained a bank card he 
would no longer need because the account was being closed.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed with the reasons given by the 
bank, and he thought that £170 (in addition to the £50 previously paid) was fair 
compensation for the parts of the complaint which had been upheld.
Mr H reiterated that the incorrect address issue had still not been resolved. He said he owes 
£1,410 in penalties through no fault of his own. These issues  (as well as the matters raised 
in his other complaints)  had been  causing him great stress for a long time. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN15282732my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will deal with the complaint points in the same  order that I described  them  above.
1. another firms statement was sent to D
If a statement, correctly  addressed, was delivered to the wrong address, then that would be 
an error by the mail, rather than by the sender. I cant hold Bank of Scotland  responsible for 
that.
2 and 3. Ds statements  incorrectly  addressed
It is not in dispute  that Ds statements had the wrong  address  on them initially,  but the bank 
says that the address was corrected  on its systems  in 2018. I have seen the screenshot  
which the bank  provided as proof of this, and the screenshot  does indeed  have  the correct  
address on it, and the date that this was updated.  Nevertheless, I have  seen the March 2019  
statement which Mr H provided, with the wrong  address  still on it. So while I cannot explain 
the discrepancy between the documents provided by the parties, I accept  that the problem 
was not solved in 2018. Statements were  still being  wrongly addressed after the bank told 
Mr H it had updated its records. And there is also the January  2019 statement for another 
account, which the bank accepted was wrongly addressed and offered compensation for.
Those statements  were still delivered  to Mr H, because the address  was partly correct,  and 
had the correct postcode. The error  is the inclusion of one line of the address which refers to 
a nearby industrial  estate  (where  Ds former  address was before the company moved to new 
premises). However, its not implausible that other statements or correspondence might 
have been mistakenly  delivered to the industrial estate as a result.  Certainly, the problem 
had not been solved.
I will therefore increase  the compensation for this issue by £50.
4. statements not being  sent when requested, and being incomplete
The bank says that it sent the statements when Mr H asked  for them,  in February  2019.  But 
it has been unable  to find the relevant email,  so it cant prove that it sent the statements 
then. I have however  seen evidence that it sent them in March.
Mr H says when the statements arrived they were incomplete, because they didnt go back  
as far as 2017.  They started in April 2018. He says he needed the statements so that he 
could file his accounts for the year 2017-18. He has provided evidence that in May 2019, 
Companies House  served  D with a late filing penalty notice of £750. Ive seen letters  which 
Mr H wrote to Companies House and to HMRC about the delay.
However, I dont accept that Bank  of Scotland is responsible for that, for two reasons. Firstly,  
the deadline for filing those accounts  was 31 January  2019,  so when Mr H asked the bank 
for the statements in February, he was already late. Secondly, he says the 2017 statements 
he wanted were finally  provided to him in July 2019,  but by then he had already managed to 
file his accounts in May,  so either he hadnt  needed them or he already  had them. So I do 
not uphold this part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN152827335 and 6. Poor customer service and IT problems
In this complaint,  the complainant is not Mr H himself, but his company, D. Mr Hs role in this 
complaint is that he represents the company. This matters because under the rules  which  
govern the Financial Ombudsman Service (rules made by the Financial Conduct  Authority),  
I can only award compensation  for inconvenience caused to the complainant,  not for 
inconvenience caused to its representative.  So while I appreciate  that Mr H must have found 
these matters to be very frustrating, I cant award  him (or D) compensation for that.
Taking all of that into account,  I agree  that the banks apology  and offer of £170  is fair 
compensation for these issues. It is in line with what our Service  would typically award.
7. advising Mr H not to collect a package  from a courier
 
I accept the managers  explanation that she thought that she and Mr H were  discussing 
another package, not the one containing the banks answer to his DSAR.  That explanation is 
plausible because there really was another  package, and that one was not worth collecting 
because it contained  a new card for an account  which was being  closed.
Fortunately, Mr H collected the DSAR package  anyway.  For both of these reasons, I think 
the banks apology and the £170 compensation I have already referred to were enough.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Bank of Scotland  plc to pay D 
£220, in addition to the £50 the bank  has already  paid it in 2018. (This consists  of the £170  
the bank has already  offered, plus another £50.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 28 August  2020.
My final decision concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1528273