K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)s approved repairer 
caused further damage to his car when carrying repairs. Mr M made  a claim under his car 
insurance policy following  an incident.  
background
Mr M made a claim to his insurer,  RSA after his car was involved in a collision with another 
car. 
Mr M complained that when his car was returned to him following repair,  it had swirl scratch 
marks all over the bodywork. The approved repairer (AR) arranged for Mr Ms car to be 
washed and waxed. Mr M said this was done by the same company  that had cleaned  his car 
before it was returned to him. He said the swirl scratch marks remained.  
Mr M wanted RSA to arrange  an independent inspection. But RSA didnt uphold  his 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought that on balance  the damage was caused while Mr Ms car was in 
the care of the AR. So she recommended RSA arrange for the swirl scratch damage to be 
repaired. She also recommended RSA pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Both parties  accepted the investigators view. But shortly after, RSA said its AR refused to 
carry out further repairs. Our investigator  explained that it was for RSA to put things right.  
RSA asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
RSA accepted the investigators view that on balance the damage was most likely caused  
while in the care of the AR. Mr Ms car had been serviced by a dealership garage a month  
before the incident. No marks were identified.  After the repairs  were carried out and the AR 
had arranged a car wash,  the dealership garage reported the swirl scratch marks on the 
bodywork. 
Mr M told us it is difficult to properly show the swirls  in photos  but he and RSA have 
provided photos of his car. Mr M asked  RSA to arrange an independent inspection, but it 
didnt. I think in one of the photos  which the investigator identified as image  2 - the swirls 
can be seen. So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right based on 
the information provided. On balance, I think its more likely that the damage  happened while 
under the car of the AR.
Mr M has told us he wants the repairs to be carried out by an approved repairer.  His car was 
purchased under a lease agreement and the standard of repairs and condition  the car is 
returned at the end of the lease agreement is important.  
Ref: DRN18484032If the AR that carried  out the initial repairs isnt prepared to carry out rectification work, its for 
RSA to make alternative arrangements. I think its reasonable  for RSA to either make the 
arrangements with another AR or agree to cover the costs  of a dealership garage to carry 
out the rectification repairs. Either way, as all parties agree the damage was most likely 
caused while in the care of an AR, RSA is responsible for the rectification repairs. 
For the distress and inconvenience  caused,  I think RSA should  pay Mr M £100 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to arrange rectification repairs for the swirl scratch marks  on Mr Ms car. It should also pay 
Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1848403