K821x#15complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the customer service  shes  received from Shop Direct  Finance 
Company Limited  after she made two payments online through the Very catalogue.  
background
Ms B says that due to a system error on the website  a payment she was making  was 
accidentally duplicated.  Ms B feels shes experienced inconvenience  and distress  due to 
how Shop  Direct has handled her complaint. She thinks she was given  incorrect information 
by staff, that there  were delays in responding to her, and that she received a lack of 
information about what was happening.  She also thinks  she was spoken  to rudely by staff 
and lied to, along with being  made  to wait an unacceptable length of time on a call to them. 
Shop Direct considered Ms Bs complaint. Overall they acknowledged there had been 
customer service  failings  and so they offered  her a total of £85 compensation as recognition  
of this. Unhappy  with this outcome, Ms B referred  her complaint to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  She felt the amount of compensation 
offered by Shop Direct was reasonable to reflect the inconvenience and upset shed been 
caused by the customer  service  failings. Since  the matter has been  with our service,  Shop 
Direct has agreed to pay Ms B a further £15 compensation. As I understand Ms B has now 
accepted the total sum of £100 compensation. 
But Ms B still remains dissatisfied.  In particular she believes two different calls between her 
and Shop Direct were with the same member of staff, despite Shop Direct claiming 
otherwise. Ms B has asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt any evidence  to show Shop  Direct is responsible for the technical  glitch that 
happened when  Ms B made the online payment. This glitch resulted  in an additional 
payment being  made in error. As I understand  the additional payment of £350 was promptly 
returned to Ms B and her bank didnt charge her for going overdrawn.  So she hasnt been 
financially affected by this issue. 
In two particular  calls with Shop Direct  Ms B spoke to members of staff with the same name. 
I can see the confusion  this has caused.  Despite  both having the same name, Im not 
convinced this is the same member  of staff on each call. Ive listened to the calls.  Shop 
Direct has also provided our service  with evidence of advisor ID details. It appears whilst the 
two advisors may have  the same  name,  they were two different individuals. 
Like the investigator I can see Shop Direct  werent  as helpful as they couldve been  in 
providing Ms B with the correct information. And I do think during a certain call Ms B was 
kept on hold for too long, and then spoken to in an unprofessional manner. But I also feel the 
amount of compensation Ms B has been paid to date is fair and reasonable. So I wont be 
asking Shop Direct to increase this amount or do anything further.
Ref: DRN16822332my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1682233