K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss A bought  a monthly premium PPI policy in May 1999  at the same time as taking out a 
credit card. The card and policy  were applied for during a meeting. The card and insurance  
ended in or before November 2003.
Miss A says the policy  was mis-sold to her. She says she was not made  aware PPI was 
optional.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Miss A when she discussed having a 
credit card with an advisor during a meeting.  But Ive looked at sales documentation and 
considered what  I know  of Lloyds branch sales at that time. I consider it is more likely 
than not she was advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect her card 
repayments, and she took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI with a box ticked. It says optional  features   Asset  
Payment Protection  tick yes to take out asset  payment protection   if you do not wish 
to protect  your payments tick no. I can see the yes box has been ticked  and Miss A has 
signed the application agreeing to have  the insurance. I havent been able to see any 
evidence that anything different happened in this sale and Miss As recollections have 
not persuaded me on this occasion that she wasnt given a choice to have it either. So 
on balance, as I have  already concluded, I think Miss A was given a choice in the 
meeting.
From  what I know of branch sales at that time, I think Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to  
Miss A. So it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Miss A based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. 
I say this because  the benefit provided  by the policy would have been useful to her if she 
had any period of sickness  or unemployment  and she says she didnt have  any sick pay 
at that time. Any claim could  have been paid for up to 12 months and would have 
provided her with additional  income  at a difficult time. So I think the policy  recommended 
to Miss A would  have  been of use and so I cannot conclude that it would have been 
Ref: DRN10240072unsuitable for her based on what I have seen. I also dont think  there were any significant 
terms or exclusions  that made the policy unsuitable  for Miss A either.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Miss A wouldve changed  her mind about taking the policy  if this 
cost was presented  clearly to her during the meeting (for the same reasons why I think  
the policy is suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Miss A wouldve been affected by any of these,  due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Miss A but I cannot find a reason to uphold  her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1024007