K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for some repairs to his car. His complaint is made against Barclaycard 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr M used  his Barclaycard credit  card in April 2018 to pay £3,430 for some repairs to his 
car. But his car broke down a few days later so he took it to a manufacturers garage.  That 
garage repaired the car  for which  Mr M paid £700  and said that the earlier repairs  
werent based on any detailed investigative work and that parts  were  replaced that werent 
justified.   
Mr M claimed a refund of the £3,430  from Barclaycard  under section 75. It paid him £25 
compensation to apologise for any distress  and inconvenience that hed been caused  by 
some service issues and offered to refund £1,500 to him as a gesture  of goodwill. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She agreed that the 
initial work carried out didn't fully repair the issue with Mr Ms car - but she said that it may 
have had some contribution to getting  the car back  to a working condition.  So she didnt 
think that it would be fair to ask Barclaycard to offer a full refund of the £3,430 and she 
thought that its offer of £1,500 was fair in this situation. 
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that:
he feels that the garage  has breached  the contract it entered with him to fix his car 
and has misrepresented the repairs;
it's unreasonable to expect that an independent inspection of the car wouldve been 
carried out before the repairs;
his car broke down  in exactly the same  manner within a couple of days  of the repairs 
so its reasonable  to assume that the repairs didn't repair the original fault;
the repairs had been carried out to a poor standard;
faulty injectors weren't  the cause of his car's loss in power and he relied on the 
garage to correctly diagnose the fault; and
the garage displays  the Institute of the Motor Industry logo on its website but isnt 
actually registered  with it.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about Barclaycard, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the garage 
and that Barclaycards response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im 
not determining  the outcome of Mr Ms claim  under  section 75 as only a court would be able 
to do that.
Ref: DRN13562182Mr Ms car needed a repair because  it had a loss of power and was emitting  black smoke.  
He paid £3,430 to the garage for repairs to the car and the garages invoice details those 
repairs (which include  replacing the injectors  and spark plugs, an oil service  and an MOT 
test). Four days later the car broke down and had to be recovered. Mr M then took his car to 
a manufacturers garage where it was repaired again. Mr M paid £700 for those repairs  to 
the cars  fuel pumps. That garage says that:
On the assumption  that the vehicle has come to us with the same  issue  (loss of 
power with black smoke) as when it went  to the previous garage,  which is highly 
likely, then it is fair to say that the issue had not been resolved by the previous 
garage.
Any work that had been  done prior to the vehicle coming in to us doesnt seem to 
have been based on any detailed investigative work as parts  seem  to have been 
replaced that arent really justified.
On the basis of the evidence that Mr M had provided, Barclaycard offered  to refund to him 
£1,500 towards  the repair costs as a gesture  of goodwill (and it paid him £25 compensation 
because of a service issue).
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the repairs  didnt properly resolve  the issues with 
Mr Ms car. But I dont consider that theres  enough  evidence to show  that all of the work 
performed by the garage was unnecessary or was performed incorrectly. And I dont 
consider that Mr M has provided enough evidence  to show,  for example, that the injectors 
and spark plugs on his car were in a good  condition and didnt need to be replaced or that 
the car didnt  need an oil service. 
In these circumstances, I find that Barclaycards offer to refund £1,500 to Mr M is fair and 
reasonable. Mr M says that the garage  displays the Institute of the Motor Industry logo on its 
website but isnt actually registered with it. But Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that Mr M chose to use that garage because  he believed  it to be a member 
of that institute  or that, if the garage hadnt  been  a member of that institute,  hed have used 
a different garage. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Barclaycard to refund to Mr M any more money than it has already offered to him - or 
to take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading  as Barclaycard, 
should refund £1,500 to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1356218