K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt offer her a fair value for 
her car when she claimed on her motor insurance policy following an accident. 
background
Miss E was involved in an accident  and made a claim on her insurance.  Because of the 
damage, Admiral  said the car was beyond economic repair and had to be written  off. They 
initially offered Miss E £1,050 as settlement before later increasing this to £1,675.
Miss E disagreed with both Admirals  approach  to assessing the value of her car and the 
final settlement figure. She thinks £2,000 is a more acceptable amount and complained.  
Admiral said they had used trade guides  to assess the value of the car, and declined to 
further increase  the settlement offer. So Miss E brought her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt think it should  be upheld. He thought  it was fair for Admiral to 
rely on the trade guides and he didnt  recommend  that they needed to take any action. As 
she still disagrees, Miss E has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Es policy set out how Admiral  will settle claims. The policy 
terms say that they will cover loss or damage  and that they may settle the claim by cash  
payment. It says the most we will pay is the market value of the car.
Market Value is itself a phrase defined in the terms and conditions  and in this context 
means:
The cost of replacing  your car with one of a similar  make and model, year,  mileage and 
conditions based  on market prices at the time of the loss.
Its common to use the trade  guides, and they have an established methodology for 
estimating the value  of used cars. In situations like this, the valuation can only ever be an 
estimate. 
But I think the fairest way of valuing Miss Es car is to use the standard  industry guides. 
Theyre based on databases of actual sales of comparable  models,  adjusted  for the features 
and mileage of Miss Es actual car. I think the guides based on actual sales are more  likely 
to be accurate than adverts for sale  which are based on the sellers starting price, not the 
actual price paid when the advertised car sells (if it sells at all).
Ive checked and confirmed the figures Admiral  obtained. The settlement amount is within  
the range  of the prices  suggested by the trade  guides. I think  that is a reasonable approach.
Ref: DRN10352202Miss E says that her car is rare, and so its not fair for Admiral  to rely on trade  guides  in 
these circumstances.  She has highlighted some of our services guidance to support  this. 
Ive considered this point.  But Im not persuaded that Miss Es car was so rare or unusual, or 
is sold sufficiently infrequently, that the guides valuations wouldnt be able to provide a 
reasonable representation of its value. 
Overall Im satisfied Admiral fairly arrived at the valuation  of Miss Es car which they used in 
settling her insurance claim. And whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Miss E, I 
dont think they need to pay her anything more. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1035220