K821x#15Complaint
Mr E complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent him money 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Mr E took out 17 loans  with Sunny between September 2014 and July 2018. 
Mr E wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  and charges that he paid together  with interest on 
the refund.
Before this service became involved, Sunny offered to refund  the interest and charges that 
Mr E had paid on loan one. As Mr E had paid this on time, Sunny said that there was no 
negative information  to remove from his credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny do more than it had offered so far. The 
adjudicator thought that Sunny should  not have agreed loans six to 17. 
The adjudicator asked Sunny to remove any negative information about loan six from Mr Es 
credit file. He recommended that Sunny remove loans seven onwards entirely from Mr Es 
credit file. The adjudicator  also recommended that Sunny refund the interest  and charges 
that Mr E had paid on the affected loans.
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view to the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr E could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN10472122the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr E could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right for Mr E so Ive included a direction in my 
decision about what steps it should take if Mr E accepts my decision.
As Mr E hasnt  objected  to the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold his complaint 
about loans two to five, I wont say anything further  about these  and instead  will concentrate 
on loan six onwards.
Loan six
By loan six, Mr E had borrowed money  five times in less than four months. Although Sunny 
asked for details of Mr Es income and outgoings,  I consider that it shouldve  been doing 
more than it did to make sure that Mr E could  afford  to repay the loan.
If Sunny had carried out the kinds of checks that I think  were proportionate, it seems likely  
that it wouldve  discovered that Mr E owed money to a number of short term lenders. Mr E 
also had regular gambling transactions on his account. This meant that Mr E wasnt  able to 
sustainably afford to repay loan six.
I appreciate that Sunny  says it didnt consider customers bank statements but thats just one 
way in which it couldve established a more detailed understanding of Mr Es finances. And 
to answer Sunnys comment  that Mr E could have prioritised his credit  commitments over 
gambling transactions overlooks the fact that Mr E was borrowing from multiple short  term 
lenders at the same time. This might  be an indication  of a deeper  gambling problem. 
However, even if I was to discount the gambling  transactions around the time of loan six,    
Mr Es various other short term lending  commitments  meant  that he had a negative 
disposable monthly income.
Ref: DRN10472123With better checks, I dont  consider that Sunny would have agreed to lend.  It follows that I 
uphold Mr Es complaint  about loan six.
Loan seven onwards
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr E, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  
have given Mr E any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Es case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because the overall  pattern of Mr Es borrowing suggested that hed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Loan seven was the sixth loan that Mr E had taken out in just over four months. And loan 
seven was the largest loan so far. 
Loan six was still running when Mr E applied for loan seven. Mr E had asked to borrow  loan 
six on the same day that he repaid loan five and at the time, Mr E still hadnt settled loan 
four.
I think this pattern of lending was an indication that Mr E might be having  difficulties 
managing his money and was using short term loans for everyday  living  costs rather  than 
one-off expenses.
Mr E continued to have  overlapping loans.  So Sunny  should  have realised that it was more  
likely than not Mr E was reliant  on short term lending and needed to borrow further  to fill the 
hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his finances. 
Although the amounts that Mr E borrowed sometime fluctuated, he often had two loans open 
at the same  time. For example, although  loan 10 was for £150   Mr E went on to borrow  a 
further £300 within the space of 20 days.  So Mr E wasnt making  any real inroads into what 
he owed Sunny and his indebtedness was being  prolonged. This meant that Mr E had been 
paying large amounts of interest to, in effect;  service a debt to Sunny  over a long period.
I think that Mr E lost out because Sunny continued  to lend money  from loan seven onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Es ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Es complaint about loans six to 17.
Ref: DRN10472124Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr E paid on loan one and loans six to 17;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loan six from Mr Es credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about  
loans seven to 17 is negative. So all entries  about loans seven to 17 should be removed 
from Mr Es credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part and direct  Active  Securities Limited 
(trading as Sunny)  to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1047212