K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim  to a 
scam. He feels Santander could  have done more to prevent the payment  going through, or 
to recover the money from the scammer.
Background
On 12 September  2017 Mr F made a payment of £787 from his Santander current  account  
to someone who he thought was an electrician hed contracted to do some  work for him.
Mr F spoke  to his electrician on 13 September 2017  and learned that the electricians emails 
had been intercepted, and that hed actually made  the payment to a scammer  who had 
impersonated the electrician and sent Mr F an email containing his own account details 
instead of the electricians. Mr F immediately contacted his bank  to tell them what had 
happened, and to see if there was anything they could do to help. Santander contacted the 
scammers bank  straight away to see if any of Mr Fs money could be retrieved. But the 
scammers bank  confirmed  that no money  remained  from Mr Fs transaction.
Mr F was unhappy with how Santander  handled things, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, he explained to Mr F that he felt 
Santander had done all they could  to try and help,  so he didnt  think  they needed  to do 
anything more.
Mr F disagreed; he thinks Santander should be doing more to protect  its customers  from 
scams like this, and that Santander has not done  enough to try and recover  the money  he 
has lost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Santander acted  fairly  and reasonably  in allowing the transfer  to 
leave Mr Fs account. And I think it took appropriate  steps to try and recover funds  from the 
beneficiary bank. So I dont think I can fairly say Santander should reimburse Mr F with the 
£787 he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Mr F 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made.  And I have  taken that into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN12078982The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr F when  he transferred £787  or whether  it should have done more  than it did.
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say 
Santander ought to have  had concerns  that Mr F was being scammed. The amount of the 
payment that Mr F made wasnt particularly out of character for him  Mr F regularly  made 
payments for similar or higher amounts. So, having reviewed Mr Fs account  activity in the 
months leading  up to the transaction, I dont think it was sufficiently suspicious to conclude  
Santander ought to have  identified that it may be potentially  fraudulent.  
Mr F has noted  that he feels there should be a way for customers  like him to check that the 
receiving account  name matches the sort code and account number. But at the time Mr F 
made this payment, that wasnt  something  that Santander was able to do. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Santander did anything wrong by following the instructions Mr F 
gave and sending  the money.
When Mr F told Santander that hed been scammed they acted quickly, contacting  the 
scammers bank  straightaway to see if any of Mr Fs money was still in the receiving account  
and could be retrieved.  Unfortunately, by that time, all of Mr Fs money had gone. Any further 
investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers account werent 
Ref: DRN12078983the responsibility of Santander, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that information. 
So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve  his money  was all Santander could do 
to help Mr F at that stage.
I appreciate that Santander did tell Mr F very quickly that they would  be unlikely to be able to 
retrieve any of his money, but I dont think that means they didnt do a proper  investigation. 
Unfortunately, its not unusual in scams  like this for the scammers to withdraw funds quickly.  
I think Santander was trying to manage  Mr Fs expectations when sharing this information 
rather than being  dismissive. 
Its unfortunate that Mr F has lost out, and I understand  that this whole experience  will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Santander should have done more to prevent Mr F losing his money.  I cant  hold Santander 
responsible for Mr F having fallen victim  to a scam, and I think they did all they could to help 
him once  they knew what had happened.  So I dont  think it would be fair to ask Santander  to 
compensate Mr F for his loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1207898