K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her a credit  card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs R took out the card and PPI in January 2002 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mrs R has said that the PPI was added without  her knowledge or consent.  Canada Square 
has provided screen shots of the web pages that Mrs R would have seen during the online 
application process. Under the heading  of Payment Protection, Mrs R would have needed  
to select yes or no options to either request or decline  PPI. These  options  have equal 
prominence and neither had been  pre-selected. I think  Mrs R would have understood from 
the wording and layout of the page  that the PPI was optional.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Rs recollection of the 
sale has faded. Looking  at the available  evidence, it seems to me that she decided to take 
out the policy, knowing that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer remembers  doing so.
Canada Square  didnt advise Mrs R to buy the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met 
her needs.  But it did need to provide her with enough information to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not it was right for her.
Mrs Rs employer didnt provide sick pay, so shed only have received statutory sick pay if 
she was unable to work  due to accident  or illness. The policy  would have paid out in addition 
to statutory sick pay. And Mrs R didnt  have any other means, such as savings, to fall back  
on. Shes said that family and friends  would have helped. But other people cant  always  be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can change. Overall I think  that Mrs R had a need for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it.
Its possible that Canada  Square didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mrs R wasnt affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I 
dont think that further  information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means  that Canada Square  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R. 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Ref: DRN16771242When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R 
about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Canada Square Operations Limited  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1677124