K820x#14complaint
Miss E has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a 
packaged bank  account, called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
Miss E paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.  
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Es complaint  and didnt think that Bank  
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to her.
Miss E didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  
her case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Miss Es case. Ive looked 
into everything that Miss E and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint 
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I understand that Miss E had been a customer of Bank of Scotland  for quite a long time 
before it sold her the URCA. Bank of Scotland has sent us information from its records which  
it says shows that she opened a fee-free  account  in 2006 and that it sold her the URCA in 
2010. I think that Bank of Scotlands records are probably reliable about this, and Miss E 
seems to have accepted  that this account  history is accurate, so I have taken it to be correct. 
Miss E has told us that she thinks the fees for the account were extortionate and that she 
could have bought some of the potential benefits  at a lower  price elsewhere. Shes said that 
in 2010 she needed an additional account  for (her) university studies and that Bank  of 
Scotland told her that as she already had a fee-free account, she would have to have a fee-
paying one. Shes said that it recommended the URCA to her when she visited one of its 
branches. 
Bank of Scotland has agreed that it sold the URCA to Miss E when  she visited  one of its 
branches, but has said that it did so on a non-advised basis  and didnt recommend the 
account to her. Its told us that its usual  practice  in 2010 was for its staff to tell customers  
about an URCAs potential benefits  and costs,  without  advising them,  and then let them 
decide whether  to buy one. 
There are no detailed  records  of Miss Es discussion with Bank of Scotland,  which  I dont 
find surprising after so much time has passed,  so I cant  tell for sure what  Bank of Scotland 
said, or didnt say, to Miss E and whether  it advised  her. 
Miss E hasnt told us why she felt she needed  a further account  for university, but she has 
been quite clear that Bank of Scotland  did advise her to buy the URCA. For example, she 
has described how its advisers approached her in the branch. So Im satisfied that in this 
Ref: DRN16733532particular case,  Bank  of Scotland led Miss E to believe it was recommending  the URCA to 
her, and I have considered her case  as an advised  sale. This meant that as well as telling  
Miss E about the URCAs costs and benefits,  Bank of Scotland should have checked that it 
was an appropriate  choice for her before recommending it. So Ive looked into the potential  
benefits of the URCA and Miss Es circumstance to see if it was reasonable for Bank of 
Scotland to recommend it to her. 
When Bank of Scotland sold the URCA  to Miss E, its potential benefits included  car 
breakdown cover, travel insurance,  mobile  phone insurance and cheaper overdrafts than 
Bank of Scotland offered to its customer with fee-free accounts. 
Miss E has told us that while she had the URCA, her mother had car breakdown cover  which  
she could have used.  I accept this may have been the case in some  circumstances. But 
Bank of Scotland has sent us copies of some  of its records,  which  show  that Miss E used the 
car breakdown cover  that came with the URCA quite  a few times, with the first occasion 
being only a few months after it sold her the account. Similarly, it has shown that she made 
claims on the mobile phone insurance  and enquired and about the travel insurance.  So I 
think that Miss E may well have had a potential need for some of the URCAs benefits when 
Bank of Scotland sold it to her. 
I also understand that before Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Miss E, she had been over 
drawing her account quite  a bit and continued to do so afterwards. In some  situations, the 
savings from the cheaper overdrafts the URCA provided could be quite significant when 
compared to the monthly fees for the account, and I think  this may also have been  of 
potential benefit  to Miss E. 
So it seems  to me that it was reasonable for Bank  of Scotland  to recommend the URCA to 
Miss E, as several of the benefits may have been useful for her.
Miss E has accepted  that she knew the URCA was a fee paying account and I think its 
highly likely  that Bank of Scotland  told her how much the account would cost, as well as 
describing the benefits she could get in return.  I accept that Miss E may have been able to 
buy some  similar benefits elsewhere for lower  prices, but this would have been something 
for her to decide  for herself when considering Bank of Scotlands recommendation. 
Of course,  Bank  of Scotland also had to give Miss E a choice. I accept that Miss E is doing  
her best to remember what happened back in 2010, but I havent seen sufficient evidence for 
me to think  it likely that Bank of Scotland told her she had to have a fee paying account. 
Miss E had held her fee-free account for several years and I see no reason why Bank of 
Scotland would  deny  her a fair choice to keep it, or to take another similar account. Bank of 
Scotland may well have  told Miss E that she would only qualify for the cheaper overdraft, 
and other  potential benefits, if she bought  the URCA. But this was correct and wouldnt have 
been the same as denying her a choice.  
Miss E has also told us that on several occasions over the years, she wanted  to close  the 
URCA, but Bank  of Scotland told her that if she did so, she would lose the overdraft. I dont  
have many details of these conversations, but it seems likely to me that Bank of Scotland  
was telling Miss E that if she closed the URCA she would  no longer have been entitled  to the 
savings on her overdraft, which would have been correct.  Again, I dont think this was the 
same thing as telling her she had to have the URCA. 
Ref: DRN16733533Similarly, Miss E has also told us that Bank  of Scotland said that she could only close  the 
entire account (and so loses all its benefits) rather than just close  parts  of it. She thinks this 
was unfair.  However,  packaged bank accounts,  like the URCA, usually come as a bundle 
and cant be tailored for individual  needs, so I dont think Bank  of Scotland  did anything 
wrong if it told her this. 
Obviously, I cant tell for certain  what happened  when Bank of Scotland  sold the URCA to 
Miss E, but as I think it made  a reasonable recommendation, told her about  the URCAs cost 
and potential benefits and gave her a choice, I dont think that it mis-sold the URCA to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Es complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673353