K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited (trading as Payday Express)  didnt  
carry out proper  affordability checks and irresponsibly  granted her unaffordable payday  
loans. 
background
Ms S took out three loans with Payday Express between July and August 2013. Ms S wasnt  
able to pay back what she borrowed and loan 3 appears to be outstanding. Payday Express 
said that for all loan applications  it considered in good  faith the information Ms S had given 
and relied on it. It carried out a credit reference  agency check  and asked for Ms Ss income 
and outgoings  when she applied for the loans. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said that Payday Express checks  
on the  second and third loans didnt go far enough because the business didnt ask about 
any short  term lending Ms S might have  had to see if she could afford the loan repayments 
which were a significant part of her income.  He thought  that if it had asked these questions 
about Ms Ss outgoings it wouldnt have offered her the third loan because  it was 
unaffordable. 
Payday Express replied to say in summary that it agreed with the assessment and offered to 
refund all interest and charges paid by Ms S on that loan. Ms S didnt accept that offer as 
she thought that Payday Express didnt treat her sympathetically when she was in debt and 
so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Ms S, Payday  Express had to make sure each loan was affordable. There  
arent set checks it had to carry out. But its checks shouldve been proportionate to things 
like  but not limited  to  the size of the loan,  the repayments and what it knew about her.
Payday Express says it carried out some checks as part of its underwriting process.  It asked 
Ms S for her income and outgoings and it carried out some credit  checks.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that the checks  for the first loans did go far enough.  Ms S said 
her income was £1900  and her outgoings were  £720. The repayment on loan 1 was 
£193.50. This appeared to be easily affordable on the figures Ms S gave and at this stage in 
the lending relationship there was no reason to doubt what  she was saying about  her 
finances. There was nothing in the credit check that should  have  alerted Payday  Express to 
carry out any more  checks than it did. So I think it was reasonable to lend this money  to 
Ms S.
Ref: DRN10278342Ms S repaid this loan on 26 July 2013 and then applied on the 7 August to borrow  £500. 
This would suggest  that Ms S couldnt  sustainably afford to repay the first loan without 
borrowing again. I think it would have been reasonable to ask Ms S whether she had any 
other short term lending  at this point to check she wasnt reliant on this sort of credit. The 
repayment of £645  was a significant proportion of Ms Ss disposable  income. But Ms S 
didnt have any short term lending at this point and so better checks  wouldnt have made 
any difference to the decision to lend.
Loan 3 was taken out the day after loan 2 was repaid for an increased amount of £600.  This 
further suggests that Ms S wasnt sustainably able to repay her borrowing without relying on 
credit. She declared a lower monthly income  of £1793 and the repayment was £774. As I 
said for loan 2 I think that Payday Express should have asked about short term lending for 
this loan too. 
If it had asked these  questions for this loan I think it is likely that it would have discovered 
that Ms S had other short term borrowing and couldnt afford the repayments  on this loan. 
On that basis I think it is likely  that Payday Express wouldve decided that this loan 
repayment wasnt affordable. I think it was wrong to give Ms S this loan.
Ms S has had the benefit  of the money so it is only fair that she pays it back. Payday 
Express should treat Ms S sympathetically  in arranging a repayment plan for any 
outstanding balance. I know that Ms S has said that the business  has not been helpful but I 
cant say that it was wrong  to give Ms S the first two loans given what  she said and the 
checks it carried out. But I think all interest  and charges incurred on the third loan should be 
refunded. Ms Ss credit  file should  be amended to remove all adverse information in relation  
to the refunded loan.
There is likely to be a capital balance  remaining  if Ms S has made  no repayments on the 
final loan and so it is fair that the refund can be applied to reduce the outstanding capital 
balance. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require 
Express Finance (Bromley) Limited  (trading  as Payday Express):
refund  to Ms S all interest  and charges shes  paid on loan three, together with 
simple interest at the rate of 8% a year*  from the date each such  sum was paid until 
the date of settlement; and 
remove any negative information  about this loan from Ms Ss credit  file.
write off any interest and charges that Ms S hasnt paid;
deduct any capital  still owing from the compensation due;
Ref: DRN10278343If Express Finance (Bromley) Limited  (trading as Payday Express) sold the remaining debt to 
a third party debt purchaser it should  buy the debt back  before doing  what  Ive said above. If 
this isnt possible or it doesnt want  to do this it should (in addition  to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  Ms S any interest  and charges she has already  paid to the third party  plus 8% 
interest simple per annum on each amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any adverse information it may have recorded about  
the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Express Finance  (Bromley) Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. It must give Ms S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1027834