K820x#14complaint
Mr D says MEM Consumer Finance  Limited,  trading as Payday UK, (MEM), irresponsibly  
lent to him. Mr Ds complaint is brought  to this service on his behalf by a claims management 
company. But for ease  I will refer below  to all actions being taken by Mr D.
  
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans MEM  provided to Mr D between  September 2012  
and March 2013. Mr Ds lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan repayment amount 
1. 24/9/12 26/10/12 £207.92
2. 23/2/13 24/3/13 £324.88
3. 29/3/13 1/5/13 £259.90
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D disagreed  and the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MEM needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ds 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MEM should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These  factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN15522432I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MEM was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I note that Mr D said that MEM should  have known the loans werent affordable  due to his 
borrowing with other lenders  which  should have been seen on MEMs  credit  check.  MEMs 
file shows that it carried  out a credit check before Loan 1 but it hasnt  provided  us with the 
results of its credit check. I cant see that MEM carried out a credit check  before Loans 2 
and 3. But in any event there  wasnt a requirement  for it to carry out a credit check.
I appreciate that Mr D says his credit file would have  shown borrowing from other lenders. 
Mr D has provided his credit report to us. I can see that before Loan 1 his credit file showed 
two other  payday  loans,  and before Loans  2 and 3, his credit  report  showed  one other loan 
with payments due at the same time as MEMs  repayments. But Im also aware that when a 
lender carries out a credit  check, the information  it sees doesnt usually provide the same 
level of detail that a consumers credit  report will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender  
might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing  or 
anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday  and short term lenders report  to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between  the information  
provided by MEMs credit check  and Mr Ds actual  situation.
I note that the repayments that Mr D needed  to make on Loans 1 to 3 were  relatively  modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to MEM.  So given Mr Ds repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, and his history with the lender, I 
dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for MEM to ask him for the amount of information 
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr D provided or the information  MEM 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying.  
So I dont  think MEM did anything wrong  when it agreed to give these loans to Mr D. And so 
it follows that I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN15522433Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1552243