K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Western Provident Association  Limited did not tell him directly about its 
decision to exclude  certain medical conditions from his policy.
background
Mr Ps wife works  for an organisation that offers a group scheme  medical insurance. In 
January last year, she added Mr P to her group scheme policy as a family  member. Mr P 
brings his complaint in his capacity as a group scheme beneficiary.  This also means his 
continued enrolment is contingent upon his wifes continued participation with her employer 
and membership of the group scheme.  She must elect for him to be and remain  insured.  
Mr P said WPA  decided  to exclude  certain medical conditions from his policy,  but did not tell 
him about this directly.  Around six months later, in June, Mr P was suffering with chest  pains 
and was referred to see a cardiologist. Mr P paid for some diagnostic tests and would like 
WPA to reimburse his costs.
WPA said Mr P had suffered with increased blood pressure before he joined and so it listed  
hypertension, as well as other related conditions, as a pre-existing medical condition. It said 
that because Mr P was then referred to a cardiologist it could fairly rely on the exclusion.  
WPA also said it wrote to the group scheme member,  Mr Ps wife, to inform them of the 
exclusion as part of its offer of insurance,  as is its standard  practice. It offered Mr P £100 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill and took on board  feedback from Mr P that it could  
perhaps share this information with group scheme  beneficiaries via its online portal.
Our investigator thought this was fair. She was satisfied WPA had sent a revised certificate  
of registration  to Mr Ps wife and that this clearly listed the exclusions to his cover.  
Mr P did not agree  that this was fair for mainly the same reasons as before. In addition,  he 
said he had his own policy prior to taking out this one and highlighted hed have been  
covered had he not had cancelled it to go ahead with WPAs cover.
And so its for me to make a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking WPA to 
do anything more than it has already.  The reason I say this is because  Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades  me its made a mistake. Id like to explain why.
Mr P had his own cover  with another  provider and in January 2018, decided  to join WPA as 
a family  member of his wifes policy. So although  Mr P has his own policy  terms and 
exclusions, his wife is the main policy holder. This means any changes  to the policy  terms or 
the cover  provided  will be communicated to her directly, rather than Mr P. This is similar to 
the way in which Mr Ps cover was initiated as it was Mrs P who originally sourced the policy  
and completed the application for Mr P. I note WPA initially asked Mrs P more questions 
pertaining to Mr Ps health as he was subject  to full medical underwriting  which she 
provided detailed  answers  to. Some of the answers she gave  led to the exclusions being 
added to the cover. 
Ref: DRN15017852So although  I take on board Mr Ps argument  that WPA  should  have corresponded with him 
directly, this was not something it did to begin with and is not necessarily something its 
obligated to do moving forward  because  he is not a member  of the group scheme, rather, 
he is a beneficiary. Further, I think it reasonable for WPA to expect Mrs P to share  
information with Mr P in the way she did when it asked her to gather  further  information  
about Mr Ps health during the application process.        
WPA offered  to provide cover for Mr P in its revised certificate of registration in February  
2018. The certificate listed exclusions as; 
[Mr P] has hypertension which is associated with an increased risk of developing several 
diseases/disorders and as a result is not eligible for any investigations or treatment that are 
for, resulting from, or related to the following condition(s):
 Hypertension
 Peripheral vascular disease
 Ischaemic heart disease
 Aortic valve  regurgitation
 Hypertensive renal disease
 Stroke (CVA)
 Cerebral  arterial  aneurysm
A related condition  is where a current UK body of reasonable  medical  opinion  considers 
another symptom/disease, illness or injury  to be associated with the excluded condition
 And so based  on this, I think  WPA acted fairly  in declining cover for the cardiologists 
diagnostic tests. I say this because its considered investigative treatment thats related to 
one or more of the conditions listed above.  WPA added the exclusions because Mr P had 
suffered with high blood pressure in the past and so Im satisfied they were applied  fairly. 
Mr P has since highlighted that had he not have accepted the cover offered by WPA then he 
would have likely been covered under his existing  policy. This may well be the case, but Ive 
not seen any information about  Mr Ps previous policy. In addition,  this was a non-advised 
sale of insurance, meaning  it was not WPAs responsibility to ensure the policy  met Mr Ps 
individual needs. And I think Mrs P was provided  with clear information about  what  the policy  
did or didnt  cover. So I dont think it fair to place any responsibility on WPA here.  However I 
note WPA did what it could to make sure Mr P and his wife fully understood the cover  on 
offer and stated during the application process;
please check all WPA documents before  cancelling  any other Private Medical Insurance 
you already have. It is important that you understand  what  the group scheme provides 
benefit for and that it meets your needs
Mr P confirmed during  a conversation with WPA that he and Mrs P had received the revised  
certificate of insurance and that theyd not read it until he needed to make  a claim, which is 
when they first realised  the exclusions.  But I think WPA took reasonable steps to make the 
exclusions clear and so I make no further recommendation here either as it was for Mr P to 
make sure the cover was suitable  for his needs. 
Ref: DRN15017853my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1501785