K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about a Green Deal loan provided  by Domestic & General Heating Limited.
Mr S says he didnt know he was taking out a loan. He says he thought the energy  savings  
measures were free and that any costs would  be covered by energy sold back to the 
National Grid.
background
In 2015 Mr S entered into a Green Deal arrangement with Domestic & General.  He took out 
a loan for £9,950 to pay for solar panels  and a new condensing boiler.  
Mr S says he was introduced to the idea of the Green Deal by a Mr Y, to whom he paid 
£1,000 in cash. He says he didnt receive  a receipt  for this.
Mr S says that he didnt  know he was taking out a loan and that, although he signed papers, 
he wasnt given copies  until later. He says his written English isnt good.
Mr S says he only realised hed taken out a loan when he received his next quarters bill 
from British Gas.
Mr S complained to Domestic & General but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr S had 
chosen the Green Deal after various  options had been explained to him. It suggested that 
personal difficulties  might have prompted  the complaint.  It also said that Mr S hadnt 
registered to receive  the Feed  in Tariff (FIT) although it had offered to help him with this.
Mr S then brought  his complaint to us. One of our investigators wrote to Domestic & General 
on 20 March 2019 explaining why she thought the complaint should be upheld.
Briefly, she didnt think things had been  fully explained  to Mr S. She thought it unlikely hed 
been made aware he was taking out a long-term  loan. And she also had concerns about 
how the energy  savings  had been  calculated and explained to Mr S. This was because  the 
estimated savings appeared unrealistic and unachievable, making it likely that Mr S had 
been allowed  to borrow more than should  have been available  to him under the scheme.
Our investigator set out her recommendation of what  she thought Domestic & General 
should do to put things  right.
With regard to the £1,000 which Mr S says he paid to Mr Y, our investigator concluded that 
she didnt have enough information  to say whether or not this payment  was in relation to the 
Green Deal measures. But she said she would look at this again  if either  party provided 
further information.
Our investigator then obtained, and showed Domestic  & General, a copy  of the pre-
installation Energy Performance Certificate  (EPC) dated June  2014  and copies  of Mr Ss 
energy bills both before  and after the improvements were made.
Our investigator said that the pre-installation EPC appeared  to show  that the assessor had 
based his savings calculations on the assumption  that Mr S didnt have an existing heating  
system and that he relied on electricity for heating and hot water.
Ref: DRN11458722She also pointed  out that the energy bills appeared to show  that Mr Ss energy  costs 
increased significantly following the installation, largely due to the addition  of the Green  Deal 
charges.
Our investigator asked  Domestic & General if it wanted to comment  further in the light of this 
new information.
Domestic & General asked for time to speak to Mr Y who,  it said, had been its main  contact 
with Mr S. However, despite further time being  allowed,  no further comments  or arguments  
have been received.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into account the relevant law, regulations  
and best industry  practice.
As the Green Deal provider Domestic & Generals role was to provide the finance for the 
improvements being installed, manage the overall  improvement  project and meet various  
obligations set out in the Green Deal Code of Practice (CoP).
One of its obligations was to fairly  and clearly explain the credit agreement  and the fact that 
instalments payable under the plan would be added to Mr Ss energy bill. It also had to notify 
Mr S of any savings estimates  and whether these were likely  to offset the instalments.  
Mr S and Domestic & General dont  agree  on how all this was explained at the time. In this 
sort of situation I decide, based  on the information provided, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
Its not entirely clear  what role Mr Y played  in all this. From  information  supplied by Domestic  
& General it seems that Mr Y may have  been  a mutual acquaintance. He seems  to have 
been a point of contact  between Domestic & General and Mr S.
Its difficult to know  how the Green  Deal arrangement  was explained to Mr S. But Im inclined 
to agree with our investigator that Mr S believed the panels and boiler would be paid for by 
energy saved and sold back to the National Grid. Mr S has said that this was how the 
arrangement was explained. And that would broadly be in line with an explanation  of how the 
Green Deal Scheme is supposed to work, albeit not a fully accurate description. It would also 
explain Mr Ss concern and complaint when he found that he was being charged  repayments 
through his energy bills.
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Domestic & General adequately explained to Mr S 
that he was taking out a loan or that he would need to repay this through his energy bills. 
But, and more importantly  in this case, I also share  our investigators concerns about the 
way the estimated savings were calculated and explained  to Mr S.
Ref: DRN11458723The way the Green Deal Scheme works is that the annual repayments shouldnt  be more 
than the first years projected savings. The Green Deal provider has a duty to make sure this 
golden rule is satisfied  and clearly explained  to the consumer.
The Green Deal Finance  agreement  in this case shows estimated savings for the first year of 
£2,141.
Based on this level of estimated savings Mr S was able to borrow almost £10,000, the entire  
cost of the two energy savings measures.
But even allowing for the fact that energy consumption will be affected  by a number of 
factors, including occupancy, its difficult to see that that energy  savings  of this level could be 
achieved simply by changing the boiler and installing solar panels.  As our investigator 
pointed out this projected saving is likely  to be more than the average household will pay for 
energy in a year.
From the pre-installation EPC, issued in June 2014, it seems likely  that this happened 
because the assessor  based his calculations on the assumption that Mr S didnt have an 
existing heating system and that he used electricity for heating and water. The EPC notes 
no system present, electric heaters assumed. 
But Mr S says he already  had a gas boiler and that this was in working  order. And the 
business has also said that the existing  boiler was replaced and upgraded. It hasnt said 
that a completely new type of heating  system  was installed.
Moreover, Mr Ss energy bills appear to show that whilst his costs increased  markedly after 
the installation  his overall energy consumption didnt change much  and neither  did the 
breakdown between gas and electricity consumption. There  doesnt seem to be anything  to 
suggest that the source of heating  changed.
So, on the basis of the evidence Ive seen, it seems more likely than not that the estimated 
savings were inflated and the golden rule was not met. In other  words  Mr S was allowed to 
borrow more than should have been available to him under the scheme and his repayments 
were significantly  more  than he could realistically have been expected to achieve in savings.  
Under clause 54 of the CoP Domestic & General was required to explain to Mr S the impact 
of the installation in terms of savings on his energy bills and any additional  cost.  
If Domestic & General had done  this I think it would have been  apparent  that the estimated 
savings were too high for Mr Ss situation. 
So, in addition to not adequately explaining to Mr S that he was taking out a loan I think 
Domestic & General failed to properly explain the savings estimates to Mr S. 
For these reasons I dont  think  Domestic  & General met its obligations under the CoP in this 
case. I dont think  it acted fairly towards Mr S and I think he lost out as a result.
I now have to consider  what  Domestic  & General should do to put things right.
Where we uphold  a complaint our general approach is to aim to put the consumer as nearly 
as possible in the position theyd  be in if things hadnt gone wrong.
Ref: DRN11458724In this case, Im satisfied  that if things had been properly explained to Mr S he wouldnt have 
taken out the loan.  Its clear that Mr S was looking to reduce his energy costs.  So its difficult  
to see that he would have agreed to take a long-term loan which, in fact, increased  those 
costs. 
However, as our investigator  explained,  to put Mr S back in the position he would have been 
if he hadnt taken  out this loan would require Domestic & General remove  Mr Ss boiler and 
replace it with the model he had previously. Thats unlikely to be cost effective for Domestic 
& General and would  put Mr S to considerable inconvenience. 
So, our investigator recommended that Mr S should  be allowed to keep the new boiler  but 
that Domestic & General  should unwind the credit  agreement and refund any instalments 
already paid with interest. I think thats  fair in the circumstances.  
She also recommended that Domestic & General should remove  the solar panels from Mr 
Ss property  at no cost to him. I think thats fair also. But Im aware that this might be difficult  
for Domestic & General  and that it might  be disruptive for Mr S. So Domestic & General may,  
if it prefers, leave the panels in place. I understand Mr S would be content with that.
Ive taken into account that Mr S has a newer boiler than before and that he may derive 
some benefit  from this. So Ive decided not to make  any further award for the trouble and 
upset Mr S has been caused.
Ive also taken into account that Mr S has said he paid a £1,000 deposit to Mr Y. However, 
the evidence weve seen suggests that the Green Deal measures  were  funded  entirely from 
the Green Deal loan.  So, in the absence of any further information about this, I make  no 
award in relation to this amount.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Domestic & General  Heating Ltd should:
1.Cancel the credit agreement and write off any outstanding  loan balance.  
2.Remove any record of Green  Deal finance  from Mr Ss credit  file. 
3.Refund any instalments paid with 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement.
If Mr S accepts  my decision Domestic & General may, if it wishes, remove  the solar panels  
from Mr Ss property  at no cost to him. Domestic & General should let Mr S know  within 28 
days of his accepting  my decision if it wishes to remove the panels.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Ref: DRN11458725Sue Wrigley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1145872