K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about advice from Hunter  & Co (IFA) Limited in 2016 to transfer the value of
his benefits in his former  employers final salary pension scheme  to a self invested personal
pension (SIPP) with his fund to be invested  using a discretionary  fund manager (DFM).
background
Ive considered Mr Rs complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 2 February 2021. 
Ive repeated here the background. Ive corrected an error as to the date of the meeting, 
which was December 2016 and not December 2014.  
Mr R had worked for the same employer for about 26 years  and was a member  of the 
employers pension scheme. Mr R was made redundant  in July 2016.  
In November 2016 Mr R sought advice from Hunter & Co about transferring the value of his 
deferred benefits in the employers scheme. There  was a meeting  in December 2016 at 
which Hunter & Co presented its recommendations to Mr R. 
Amongst other things the fact find and meeting notes recorded: 
The value of Mr Rs benefits  in his former employers  scheme  was £857,640.52.
Mr R also had a personal  pension valued  at around £26,000 which, for the time being  
at least, he didnt want to transfer. No contributions were being  made.  
Mr R would be 45 next birthday.  
His home was valued at about £250,000 and subject to a mortgage of £200,000. He 
had a rental property  worth about  £200,000 with a mortgage of £158,000.
He had about £54,000 in cash.  
Hed been unemployed since hed been  made redundant. He was pursuing 
opportunities and expected to start a position  by the end of January 2017. His wife 
was working, earning £60,000 a year gross .
There was a discussion  about  the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) and Fixed Protection  
2016 
Mr Rs reasons for transferring were to access his tax free cash at age 55 to repay 
his mortgage.  And hed almost certainly  want income  as well then  a maximum of 
£24,000 a year.  Flexibility and being able to vary the level of income each year was 
attractive, as were the death  benefits  being  able to pass  on the whole  fund to his 
wife and then to his children. 
A suitability  report was issued on the same day recommending  a transfer to a SIPP with the 
funds invested  with a DFM. The report said, although Mr R considered the benefits available  
from his former employers scheme to be good,  those benefits were  only available from age 
65 and Mr R liked the flexibility of being  able to draw his benefits  from age 57. In particular 
he wanted to use his tax free cash to pay off his mortgage early.  The ability to vary income 
and the death benefits were also mentioned. The report  said Mr R was conscious that gilt 
yields were currently low so the transfer  value was more attractive than previously  and that it 
might not stay at that high level. 
The report  also recorded that Mr R had some knowledge of pension and investment 
products and some previous experience of investing. His attitude to risk had been classified 
as moderate to adventurous. But, after discussion,  Mr R felt he didnt need to take too much 
Ref: DRN12663922risk due to the size of his fund and the proximity to the LTA. So the DFM had been asked to 
take a low to moderate  risk approach  to the transferred  funds. 
Mr Rs capacity for loss had also been discussed. He could withstand  short  term investment 
losses and could afford moderate  losses but larger losses may cause him to have to adapt  
his standard of living. 
An analysis of the benefits his former  employers scheme offered had been undertaken. The 
CETV offered of £808,846  meant that the critical yield required to match  his existing benefits 
was 5.5%  pa (net of charges). Hunter & Co regarded that as achievable but not guaranteed.  
The report  set out reasons  for and against  transferring. Reasons in favour were: access  to 
25% tax free cash  from age 55; control  over the funds; death  benefits. 
The Pension Protection Fund was also mentioned. But Mr R might  only get 72% of his 
projected scheme benefits. 
The main  risk of transferring was uncertainty as to the final level of benefits at retirement age 
which was dependent on investment returns. 
The transfer went ahead and was completed  on 10 January 2017.
Mr R complained to Hunter  & Co in early 2019. A final response was issued on 10 April 2019 
not upholding the complaint. Amongst other things Hunter & Co referred to Mr Rs 
qualifications and knowledge. And that, post October 2018  (following  the regulators review  
of transfers out of the British Steel Pension Scheme) more robust procedures had been  
developed. But it was wrong to apply those developing standards to late 2016. Hunter & Co 
also suggested, but for the requirement to take regulated advice (because Mr Rs benefits 
exceeded £30,000), Mr R would have effected the transfer himself.  
Mr R asked us to look into his complaint. On his complaint form he said the large transfer 
value was attractive.  Hed previously worked  with Hunter & Cos adviser  whod also been 
made redundant. Hed gone on to work for an independent financial adviser (IFA)  and had 
passed the necessary examinations and so was qualified to advise Mr R about the transfer.  
Mr R had himself  gone on to work for an IFA business (albeit in a different area and not 
involving pension transfers). But, as he gained knowledge and saw more industry press, he 
became worried hed been advised to make  the wrong decision and transfer sooner than he 
needed. 
Mr R said his main  reasons for his complaint were:
He was 44 at the time and no consideration was given to delaying the transfer  until 
he wanted to access his benefits.  He was bearing  eleven  years of market  risk which 
would otherwise be borne by the employers scheme. 
There was no cashflow planning so that he could be confident the transfer would 
meet his projected  income needs and wouldnt be depleted before his death. 
Sequence of returns risk in the drawdown phase  wasnt  discussed. That can have a 
dramatic effect on the future viability of income drawdown and heightens the need  for 
cashflow planning  to stress test the recommendation.
The suitability report didnt adequately justify the recommendation to transfer. Death 
benefits were never a motivator and gilt yields, although low, cant  be predicted.
Ref: DRN12663923Mr R added that he was tempted  by the large  transfer value on offer and hed perhaps 
overestimated his own understanding of the implications of defined  benefit transfers and risk 
in generally. What hed seen  since had led him to believe there was no need to recommend  
a transfer at the time, especially as the starting point is that a transfer is unlikely to be 
suitable. Defined benefit transfers require specialist qualifications which he doesnt have, 
hence his need to take advice. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who thought it should be upheld. 
He didnt think the advice to transfer  was suitable for Mr R. 
Hunter & Co didnt  accept the investigators view. It said there were factual errors: Mr R had 
contacted the adviser on 15th November 2016  (not in October  2016); the suitability report  
says the critical yield was 5.5% pa (not 6.5%);  Mr R had an adventurous attitude  to risk but, 
because of LTA issues and targeting benefits at age 55 onwards, a lowering of risk was 
agreed. 
Hunter & Co went on to make the following  points:
Mr R was a chartered  financial  planner. That qualification meant he had an all round 
knowledge of all financial planning issues. 
It questioned  what the investigator  had said about there being a need for the transfer 
to improve the benefits offered by the ceding  scheme.  
Since the introduction of flexible benefits  advice has moved on from simply being 
based on the critical yield towards  an objective  based agenda of meeting the clients 
needs. The critical yield still plays a part but efforts to balance  Mr Rs stated 
objectives hadnt been acknowledged. 
The DFM was present  at the meeting  on 14 December 2016. Mr R valued the DFMs  
knowledge as to how his funds would  be managed  and shows  he was more involved 
in the advice process than an ordinary client with no market  knowledge.   
The significance of Mr R having been  assessed as an adventurous investor  had been 
ignored. That risk had been  lowered after discussion to a more moderate  profile  to 
avoid breaching the LTA. Mr R completed  another risk questionnaire in early  
December 2018 (some twelve weeks before he complained)  and again  scored  4 out 
of 5 (an adventurous investor). 
The questionnaire included questions about Mr Rs capacity for loss. He said he was 
tied until 57/58 (which  indicates he was still aiming  to take benefits earlier  than 65); 
he held savings for an emergency;  his salary covered his living expenses. 
Mr R had alleged no cashflow analysis was completed. But hed presented  Hunter & 
Co with his own.  It modelled his needs  to age 55 (when the tax free cash  could be 
taken to pay off his mortgage) and included inflation and the rates  of return  required. 
The solution  offered met Mr Rs needs, otherwise, given his professional knowledge, 
he wouldnt have gone ahead.  
No regard had been had to the deficit in the employers scheme (£5.6  billion in 2013). 
Or that the PPF would  only have secured  72% of Mr Rs benefits at his normal 
retirement age. 
Mr R could have taken his benefits from his employers scheme at age 55. That 
would have given  him projected tax free cash of £109,410 and a pension  of £16,441. 
Neither met his objectives. 
In summary  Hunter & Co said it was stunned but what it termed our one dimensional 
approach  measuring a complex client scenario against the critical yield.  A claim that the 
Ref: DRN12663924fund wouldnt meet the clients stated return goals cant  be judged after over only two years. 
And complaints about fund performance arent  permitted. 
The investigator replied  to Hunter  & Co. He said the critical yield of 5.5%  was the growth  
required just to match the benefits  from the employers scheme. To make the transfer 
worthwhile, higher growth would we needed.  Mr R had worked in the financial services 
industry. But that didnt  mean he was experienced in pension transfers or that he wouldnt be 
reliant on Hunter & Co to give him suitable advice.  The suitability report  recorded that Mr R 
had some knowledge of pensions and investments  and some investment experience. The 
investigator maintained  the transfer  was unsuitable  and presented too great  a risk. 
Hunter & Co asked  for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman. The investigator 
wrote to both parties with his final comments as to why he considered  the complaint should 
be upheld. 
I then went on to set out my provisional  findings.  Although I thought the complaint should be 
upheld, my reasoning  differed from the investigators, hence I was issuing a provisional 
decision. My provisional findings were as follows:  
It isnt disputed that Mr R worked in financial  services and had some  qualifications.  But 
advising on final salary transfers is a specialist area and requires qualifications that not all 
financial advisers will have. And its only certain  firms that hold the necessary permissions 
from the regulator to advise.  I dont think Mr Rs own knowledge was such that he was able 
to make decision about transferring himself. 
I dont attach any particular significance to the DFMs presences  at the advice meeting. I 
dont think it shows Mr R was more involved or engaged in the advice process  than any 
other client. I think its more likely to be that he was interested in whod  be managing his fund 
and if hed get value for the fees hed be paying.  
I do think Mr R was clearly interested in transferring.  Hed admitted that the very large sum 
on offer was attractive. Hes said he overestimated his own knowledge and understanding. 
But I can see hed have  presented as confident and knowledgeable and having  already 
decided, in principle  at least, what he wanted to do. I think  Hunter  & Co, to some  extent  at 
least, went along with what Mr R was thinking  and on the basis  that, given his background, 
he knew what he was doing.  But Mr R had gone to Hunter & Co for advice. Mr R was paying 
for that advice. Hunter & Co needed to ensure  it gave M R suitable advice. 
Ive also noted  the relationship between Mr R and Hunter & Cos adviser. It is sometimes  the 
case, in that sort of situation,  that advice may be given somewhat less formally.  And there 
may be an assumption on the advisers  part that the customer is in a position to make  his 
own decisions. That again might mean that the customers expressed interest in, and 
possible reasons  for transferring, arent explored  as rigorously  as might be expected.   
Hunter & Co suggests Mr Rs complaint has been fuelled by the regulators review  of 
transfers out of the British Steel Pension Scheme which  found  possible poor advice in half of 
the cases looked at. Theres  no suggestion  that involved  Hunter & Co. Its also the case  that 
defined benefit  or final salary transfers  have attracted  considerable press  comment in more 
recent years. And that the focus has often been on the guaranteed nature of the benefits 
and the potential unsuitability of advice  to transfer. I think its understandable that might 
make a consumer nervous about whether an earlier transfer had been the right thing to do.  
Ref: DRN12663925Hunter & Co has said that the complaint has been  judged by more  up to date standards than 
those which  applied to the advice process  in late 2016. But what  I dont think  can be 
disputed is at that Hunter & Co, in advising Mr R in late 2016, was required to adhere to 
what the regulators COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) said.    
As at 14 December 2016 COBS 19.6.1G said: 
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits5whether to 
transfer, convert 5 or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer, conversion 5 or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion 5 or opt-
out to be suitable if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion 5 or opt-out  is in the client's  best interests
Since then that provision  has been amended and now includes a list of the factors  that a firm 
should take into account to demonstrate  suitability.  But those sorts of considerations would 
have been relevant to advice given in 2016. Indeed Hunter & Co says its advice was suitable 
based on, amongst other things: Mr Rs intentions  for accessing his pension benefits; his 
attitude to and understanding of risk (including  the respective risks of the ceding and the new 
scheme); and his realistic  income needs. All those  factors feature in COBS  19.6.1G as 
updated.   
Against that background, I agree that the critical yield isnt the only factor. I also agree  
theres no specific requirement that the transfer will result in improved benefits. But what  I 
think the investigator meant, and what Id agree with, was that, if a transfer was unlikely to 
result in improved benefits (and might mean lower benefits), it will be more  difficult  to justify 
a transfer. 
That said,  a transfer  might be suitable  where the critical yield appears high. Conversely a 
transfer might be unsuitable  where the critical yield is more  modest.  But, as Hunter & Co 
recognises, the critical yield still has a part to play. The critical yield is an indicator of whether 
the transfer value is good  value for money  and in return for the benefits being  given up. 
I think there was some  confusion about  the critical yield. The suitability report says it is 5.5% 
pa to match  at age 65 the benefits Mr R would  be giving up in his employers scheme. But 
its not clear to me if that took into account all the charges, including the DFMs. If it didnt  the 
critical yield would be higher  theres another TVAS which  says the critical  yield is 6.6% pa. 
I think that might be the critical yield taking  into account all the charges. But, whether  the 
correct critical  yield was 6.6% or lower, my decision doesnt turn on that. 
I note whats been said about Mr Rs attitude  to risk. I think  Mr R was willing to take a 
reasonable degree of risk. I dont think  the transfer was unsuitable  because  it exposed Mr R 
to more risk than he was prepared to take. 
But thats not the same as saying Mr R should have been advised  to take that level of risk 
and whether he had the capacity for loss that might  result. The suitability letter  records  that 
Mr Rs capacity for loss had been discussed.  Hunter & Co also pointed  out that (as Ive said 
and as I think Mr R would  have been  aware) willingness to take risk isnt the same as 
capacity for loss. Hunter & Co said Mr R had a medium  capacity for loss. I dont agree. I 
dont think at the time that Mr R had any real capacity for loss. I say that because:
Ref: DRN12663926When the advice  was given, Mr R wasnt working. He hadnt worked since hed been 
made redundant some five or so months  earlier. He may have said he expected  to 
have secured something by the end of January 2017 but that may or may not have 
happened. It was unclear if, and how soon,  Mr R would be able to secure  new 
employment. 
Although Mr R had cash in the bank (which I assume was the balance of his 
redundancy payment)  his home  and his buy to let property were  both mortgaged and 
there wasnt a lot of equity in either  property.
But, more importantly,  Mr Rs benefits  in his former employers scheme  represented 
almost all his pension  provision. Hed joined the scheme at age 18 and hed accrued 
some 26 years service by the time he was made  redundant.  
His benefits were almost all on a final salary basis. Those benefits were  always  going 
to be the major part of his pension provision. Even when he secured other  
employment and was in a position  to make  further pension contributions,  given the 
LTA, there wasnt a lot of headroom  and when his preferred retirement age of 55 or 
thereabouts was still some ten years  away.  
That meant that during the interim period  over ten years   Mr R would be taking the 
investment risk. 
I think those factors meant that Mr R had very limited capacity for loss in connection with the 
pension benefits  which are the subject  of this complaint. 
As well as looking at Mr Rs capacity for loss Ive considered his objectives. He didnt have 
any particular need to transfer when  he did. I cant see that Hunter & Co discussed with Mr R 
whether hed be better off waiting until he was closer  to his intended retirement  date or at 
least looking  at a possible transfer when Mr Rs employment situation was more certain. 
A driver for the transfer was Mr Rs wish to pay off his mortgage at age 55. But that wasnt  a 
necessity  the mortgage wasnt due to be repaid until Mr R was 65. As Ive said,  and as 
Hunter & Co pointed  out, Mr Rs ability to make  further pension provision was limited by his 
proximity to the LTA - £1.25  million for the 2015/2016 tax year and reduced to £1 million  for 
the tax year 2016/2017. Again, as Hunter & Co pointed out, Fixed Protection 2016  would 
have given Mr R a LTA of £1.25 million  but at the expense of not being  able to make further 
contributions. It seems to me that, once Mr R secured new employment,  directing money  
towards paying off the mortgage  outside  of his pension fund by saving or overpaying the 
mortgage may have  made sense. I cant see that option was explored.  
Early retirement was another factor. I can see that would have been attractive to Mr R. But 
whether he could actually afford to retire early  (and assuming he still wanted  to do that by 
the time he reached  age 55) would depend  on his circumstances at the time.  I agree hed 
done his own cashflow analysis. If he paid off his mortgage at age 55 hed need an income  
of £24,000 pa. Taking early retirement  from his employers scheme wouldnt have provided 
enough tax free cash to pay off the mortgage  or the income Mr R was seeking (£109,410 
and £16,441 respectively).  But, as Ive said, Id question whether he really needed to 
earmark the tax free cash to pay off his mortgage  and whether his objective to pay off his 
mortgage early couldnt  have  been met differently.  
Im also concerned that Mr Rs cashflow  analysis appeared to show his fund would be 
exhausted by age 84. Hed said he understood that and expected his income requirement to 
have reduced by then anyway.  But generally Id expect to see fund depletion occurring 
somewhat further  down  the line and attention paid to ensuring that the client understood the 
risks. I dont  think  there was any real analysis of the cashflow figures Mr R presented. 
Ref: DRN12663927Mr R has said that death benefits werent  a consideration. But the fact find and the suitability 
letter records they did feature and were  discussed. Again, if Mr R did see the potential  death 
benefits from the SIPP as more valuable,  his reasons werent explored. Mr Rs wife was 
some years younger than him. A 50% widows pension would have been attractive and 
provided security for her. And, if the fund was depleted before Mr Rs death,  his widow and 
children wouldnt have  benefited anyway.
Hunter & Co has pointed  out a £5 billion deficit in the employers scheme. But that was in 
2013. Im not sure what the position  was by late 2016. But my understanding is that the 
employer was making arrangements to clear the deficit. The scheme is large, respected and 
well run. Im unaware that it has encountered any problems in meeting payments due to 
pensioners. That doesnt mean that such problems will never arise but I think  the risk that 
will happen  or that the scheme will enter  the PPF can be regarded  as low. I dont think  the 
transfer was driven  by concerns about  the solvency  of the employers scheme. 
Hunter & Co also suggest Mr Rs complaint  was prompted by falls in global stock markets 
and which  meant that 2018 finished  on a down  beat note and valuations sent early in 2019 
wouldnt have made good reading (although during  2019 things recovered somewhat). Mr R 
has explained that his complaint was made following growing unease and uncertainty,  based  
on the further knowledge hed acquired more recently. I dont see any particular reason to 
doubt that.
And what Hunter & Co says about us not dealing with complaints about investment 
performance isnt quite right. Were governed  by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) set out in the 
regulators handbook.  DISP 3.3.4R says we can dismiss  a complaint brought  to us before 9 
July 2015 without considering its merits if the complaint is about investment performance.  
But we dont  have  to dismiss that type of complaint. And wed always  look at the underlying 
factors to see what the root cause of the complaint  was. Here thats the advice to transfer.  
Further, and in any event,  that dismissal ground  doesnt apply to complaints made after 9 
July 2015 as is the case here. 
I note whats been said about Mr Rs qualifications as a chartered financial planner. And to 
Hunter & Cos suggestion that Mr R has acted in some way contrary to his professional 
conduct responsibilities. I really dont see that is the case. Mr R received  advice  from Hunter 
& Co which is now feels may not have been suitable. He has the right to bring  a complaint to 
us. Mr R wasnt classified as a professional  client. As a retail client  hes entitled to full 
regulatory protection. 
For the reasons  Ive set out, I think  that complaint should be upheld.  In summary is for 
Hunter & Co to show  the advice  it gave  Mr R was suitable and in his best interests. I dont 
think Hunter & Co have  demonstrated that was the case. As Ive said,  Mr R was clearly 
interested in transferring. But I dont think his reasons for wanting  to transfer were 
necessarily justified. Nor were any alternatives explored. And I dont think  he had the 
capacity for loss to risk the bulk of his pension provision.  
Mr R has indicated that hes likely to have  transferred in the end anyway, albeit not at the 
time he did. Hunter & Co might argue that Mr R has suffered no loss on the basis that any 
future transfer value  might  be less. But we dont know if, in the future, Mr R would have 
transferred and if he did when that might have been and what the transfer value offered then 
might have been. I think its fair to judge Mr Rs complaint on the basis  of whether he should  
have been advised to transfer when he did. 
Ref: DRN12663928I note Hunter & Cos suggestion  that, but for the requirement to take advice because  the 
value of his benefits was over £30,000,  Mr R would have undertaken the transfer himself  
and without advice.  I dont really think theres anything  to support that. Or to say that if 
Hunter & Co had advised Mr R against  transferring that Mr R wouldnt have heeded  that 
advice. Mr R didnt need to demonstrate that hed been advised to transfer, just that hed 
taken regulated advice. But I dont see any reason to assume that, if Hunter  & Co had 
advised against transferring, Mr R wouldnt  have  accepted that advice.  
I went on to set out how Hunter  & Co should  redress Mr R. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr R was happy with the outcome. He raised  some queries. He said he didnt understand 
the redress calculations  and wanted to know how hed be able to check their accuracy.  He 
also said there were potential LTA issues and he requested  that compensation was paid 
directly to him and not into his pension.
Hunter & Co didnt  agree with my provisional  decision. It highlighted some of my findings  and 
added its comments.  In summary:
When the advice  was given Mr R had accepted a job offer but he wasnt  starting  until 
the end of January 2017.  In any event his and his wifes  expenditure, including  their 
mortgage, was covered in full by his wifes  income. The buy to let mortgage was met 
by the rental  income and, if the tenant  had left, that mortgage payment could have  
been met from (Mr Rs wifes) income.  
Mr R wouldnt  have been able to access his former employers scheme until he was 
55. He was able to accept  volatility during that time period. Ongoing  annual reviews 
and using a DFM  would  have  allowed monitoring and adjustment of the portfolio over 
time to adapt the level of risk and to help eliminate volatility.
Mr R didnt have to repay his mortgage at age 55. But that was his main objective  
and one of his main  drivers for wanting  to transfer.  And his consistent message 
throughout the process and when  he presented  his cashflow and objectives  plan. He 
knew he couldnt fully achieve his objective  at age 55 by remaining in his former 
employers scheme.  He was keen in 2016 to secure the flexibility  to achieve his 
objective and the ability to take a flexible income  whenever he eventually  chose to 
take that income. He wanted to ensure  he didnt  lose the opportunity. Due to his 
extensive industry experience he was aware the regulator might  ban final salary 
transfers in the future and, if he waited, he might  lose out. 
Mr R came prepared for the meetings. Hed completed his own cashflow analysis 
and objectives  plan, comparing his and his wifes  existing scheme  incomes against a 
transferred money purchase arrangement, including assumptions for both growth and 
inflation. It showed his pension value  at age 55 of £1,061,693. After payment of tax 
free cash  that reduced to £796,270 but only £109,410 would be needed so the 
residual fund would be some £950,000. That didnt account for state  pensions  and 
the impact of the lower level of drawings. The TVAS  does show  income depleted  at 
age 84 but thats  based on matching the scheme income from age 65 and so didnt  
take into account Mr Rs reduced  income requirements which are documented but 
not included in his cashflow analysis.    
Death benefits  were a concern for Mr R. Hed clearly  stated  he wanted his wife and 
children to benefit. As adults his children wouldnt benefit from the former employers 
scheme but would  from the transferred fund, although not if it was exhausted. 
Ref: DRN12663929What Id said about the security of Mr Rs former  employers scheme  wasnt disputed. 
But Mr R had raised it as a concern and another factor  for wanting to transfer. 
Id accepted what Mr R had said about his complaint being  prompted, not by stock 
market falls. But the transfer was completed  in December  2016. Mr R had annual  
review meetings in December 2017 and 2018. He didnt  raise  any concerns about  the 
transfer. Instead hed again confirmed his objectives and intentions.  His attitude to 
risk had also been reassessed  with no changes. But in late 2018 and early 2019 
global stock markets  suffered significant volatility. In February 2019 Mr R contacted  
Hunter & Co to express concern  about  the transfer. That wasnt a coincidence.  
Especially as he also wanted to move  away from the DFM and look after the pension 
himself and invest in a specific fund. 
Mr R had also referred  to the charges  approaching  £20,000 a year.  His fund had 
stayed broadly the same over two years,  but hed paid about £40,000 in charges plus 
the initial fee of £8,000.  
Mr Rs previous relationship with the adviser didnt mean Mr R had been  dealt  with 
differently to any other client.  The same professional approach  and full advice  
process was followed  without any compromise. 
Defined benefit transfers  are a specialist area and require qualifications that not all 
advisers have. But the qualification  Mr R has requires a working knowledge of 
defined benefit  transfers and the transfer of risk. Hed undertaken his own cashflow 
analysis and drawn up a detailed plan,  which he brought to all the meetings,  and 
which shows he fully understood the risks he was accepting.   
We shared what Hunter & Co had said with Mr R. He said:  
    
He wasnt employed when the advice  was given. The job offer hadnt been made and 
he didnt sign the contract  with his new employer until early January 2017.
His knowledge of defined benefit transfers  was very limited when he made the 
decision to transfer. That knowledge  accelerated when working for his new employer 
who gave advice  in connection with final salary  transfers, having  acquired a business  
that specialised in those transfers. Hed learned more about  the process from around 
May 2018, including attending seminars with presentations  from the regulator.  His 
new firm hadnt recommended transferring in some cases. All that had led to him 
questioning the suitability of the advice hed been given to transfer. That was why 
hed hadnt raised  concerns at previous review meetings.
A key point was that he had no need  to make the transfer when he did  his 
objectives could  have been  met by delaying the decision until retirement  (planned for 
age 55) and so he wouldnt have had to bear the investment  risk in the interim. But 
that hadnt been considered. 
His pension benefits in his former employers scheme represented almost all of his 
pension provision, aside from a small  pension fund of about  £40,000  and his state  
pension at age 67. The impact of potential falls in fund value on his retirement 
income hadnt been discussed. He agreed he had limited capacity for loss.
Hunter & Co was relying on his own cashflow  analysis.  Hunter  & C hadnt  produced  
anything similar using professional software.  
Repaying the mortgage was merely part of reducing his outgoings at retirement  
rather than a specific goal.
He didnt recall suggesting  that death  benefits  were a driver.  He was aware of a 
deficit in his former employers scheme but he doesnt recall being unduly concerned. 
His wife works for the same employer  and, if hed have  been  worried, hed have 
suggested she take action too.
Ref: DRN126639210my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive paid particular attention to 
the comments in response to my provisional  decision. 
In my provisional decision I said I didnt think Mr R had any real capacity for loss. Hunter & 
Co disagrees and says it assessed Mr Rs capacity  for loss as medium as he was starting a 
new, well paid, position and his wife also had a very well paid role which  shed held for many  
years. Her income fully covered their expenditure and they had significant cash funds.  But 
Mr R says that what Hunter & Co has said about his new employment isnt right and when  
the advice was given, in December 2016,  hed yet to be offered a new job. 
The notes of the meeting on 14 December 2016 record  Mr R as currently  unemployed 
following his redundancy and that he was currently pursuing opportunities and expects  to 
start a position by the end of January 2017 . I think thats consistent with what Mr R says  
that he hadnt actually secured new employment.  I think  if hed received (and had accepted)  
an offer of new employment that would have  been expressly recorded. An offer was 
forthcoming. But it wasnt definite that would  be the case. As things stood, when the advice 
was given, and as Hunter & Co recorded, Mr R was unemployed.  
I maintain thats  significant in terms of his capacity to accept loss. Hed been unemployed for 
some months since his redundancy. Whether  and when hed be able to secure further  
employment and at what level was unknown. I note whats  been said about Mr R and his 
wifes joint household position and that her income was sufficient to meet their outgoings, 
including the mortgage payment. But what was under consideration was Mr Rs pension 
provision and whether  he ought to be advised to give up valuable  guaranteed benefits when 
his employment  position and his ability to make further pension  provision  wasnt  certain. I 
dont think Hunter & Cos assertion that Mr R had a medium  capacity for loss is justified. 
Based on what Hunter & Co actually knew  at the time, Mr Rs capacity for loss was limited.  
The timing  also meant  that there was no opportunity for a rethink.  Even if Mr R had indicated  
he was confident he was about  to be offered a new position, Hunter  & Cos suitability letter  
was issued on the same day as the meeting. And the transfer was completed on 10 January 
2017  so well before Mr R was due to start any new job. I appreciate that might have been 
because of a deadline to accept the transfer  value offered. But, if the job offer hadnt 
materialised, it would have been too late for Mr R to change his mind.  In any event, Id 
suggest it would probably still be prudent to wait until Mr R had settled into any new role 
before making  such a very significant decision.  
I agree  with Mr R that there was no pressing need  to transfer when he did. I accept that 
there were some risks in not transferring. Hunter & Co suggest Mr R was concerned  about  
later legislative or regulatory changes which  might  preclude defined  benefits transfers. I 
havent seen anything to indicate that did feature in Mr Rs decision, although future  changes  
in policy  is always an outside risk. The transfer  value might  have  gone  down. But Hunter & 
Co doesnt seem to have  discussed with Mr R whether he might be better off waiting until he 
was closer to his intended retirement date. Or at least  postponing  any decision until his 
employment situation was more certain. 
Hunter & Co has suggested Mr R was in a position  to accept volatility.  And that ongoing 
reviews meant the investments could be monitored  and any necessary adjustments made. 
Ref: DRN126639211But the question  is whether Mr R should  have been advised to accept the investment risk in 
the first place, not how that risk could be managed. I maintain the timing wasnt  right,  he 
didnt have the capacity for loss and he shouldnt have been advised to transfer  when he did. 
I dont think, in his situation, he was in a position  to accept the investment  risk in the interim  
ten year period. 
I note what Hunter & Co says about  the TVAS and fund depletion, based on Mr R taking the 
same income as his former employers scheme  would have provided  and which Mr R had 
said he didnt need. But Mr R was some ten years  away from (early) retirement  and in the 
interim his plans and/or his circumstances could  change. 
Mr R has said he doesnt recall death benefits  being  a driver for the transfer. Its natural for 
Mr R to want his wife and children to benefit  if that was possible. But I cant see that death  
benefits were a real driver in Mr Rs thinking  about whether to transfer. And, if hed 
expressed concerns  about the funding  position of his former employers scheme, Hunter  & 
Co should have explored with him if his worries  might be well founded, rather  than simply 
pointing to it as a reason why he may have wanted to transfer. Given what  Ive said about 
the former  employers scheme, which Hunter & Co doesnt disagree with, I cant see that any 
concerns Mr R may have  had justified the transfer.   
I note what Hunter & Co says about  whats prompted Mr Rs complaint. Its sometimes  the 
case that poor investment performance will prompt a complaint. We wont  always  be 
prepared to consider  a complaint thats just about  investment performance. But well look at 
the underlying  circumstances. We may take the view that the complaint isnt really about  
investment performance  but about  the suitability of the product recommended or the advice 
thats been given. 
Mr R says his concerns about  performance, and the impact of charges  (which meant he 
hasnt seen much, if any, fund growth), coupled with his more recently acquired further 
knowledge, led him to think  about  if the advice to transfer had been  suitable. Mr R may not 
have raised any concerns  at annual review meetings  in December 2017 and 2018. But his 
complaint about  the advice to transfer was made within the applicable time limits (here thats  
six years  of when the advice was given).  So, regardless of whats prompted the complaint, 
we can consider it. 
That said,  I can see why Hunter & Co might suggest  that Mr Rs position has shifted 
because of the performance  of his fund and the impact of charges. I do understand why 
Hunter & Co may feel a decision  to uphold the complaint isnt fair. Ive accepted Mr R was 
clearly interested  in transferring.  Hes said that the very large  transfer value on offer was 
attractive. His background, even though he wasnt an expert when it came to final salary 
transfers, meant he may have thought he knew what he wanted to do before he sought  
advice from Hunter & Co. Even if he hadnt  made  a firm decision,  his background, 
qualifications and experience meant he was certainly better  placed  than many  to take a view 
on what he should do. And to understand the risks of transferring.  Ive considered all that 
very carefully. 
But it was up to Hunter & Co to give Mr R suitable advice. Hunter  & Co could only 
recommend a transfer if it was satisfied a transfer  was in Mr Rs best interests.  On balance 
and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests  to transfer  
when he did. 
Ref: DRN126639212On that basis I dont think the advice was suitable  and Im upholding the complaint. Hunter  & 
Co must redress Mr R as I set out in my provisional  decision. Ive repeated the redress  here, 
adjusted slightly to take into account the regulators recent announcement.  
Weve told Mr R that the calculations are generally carried out by specialist actuary.  Details 
should be made available to him together with any assumptions used. The below redress 
addresses the situation if LTA issues arise and in which case a cash  payment direct to Mr R, 
adjusted as set out, can be made. 
As a complex calculation  is required, the amount  of the redress payment (if any) cant  be 
estimated. But, given the size of the transfer  value, the amount could be large.  Ive said what  
should happen if the redress  if more  than £160,000 which is the maximum award I can make 
(in a case  such as this where the date of the act or omission was before 1 April 2019 and the 
complaint was referred to us on or after that date).  
what should  Hunter & Co do?
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Hunter  & Co to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position hed now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I think Mr R wouldve remained in 
his former  employers scheme. Hunter & Co must therefore undertake  a redress  calculation  
in line with the regulators pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms  on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Hunter  & Co 
must therefore take into account any amendments to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 
17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Hunter & Co must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr R. Hunter & Co need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of 
amendments currently planned  by the FCA. (Hunter & Co does not subsequently need to 
recalculate following  any further amendments the regulator might later make.) 
Alternatively, Hunter & Co may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised 
Guidance (expected  in March 2021) before  calculating and paying the compensation due to 
Mr R in this case.
Hunter & Co may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the former employers scheme  on Mr Rs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Ref: DRN126639213If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr R within  90 days  of the date 
Hunter & Co receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes 
Hunter & Co to pay Mr R. 
If Hunter & Co chooses to wait until publication  of the FCAs amended  Finalised Guidance  
before calculating and paying  the compensation, the 90 days will start from the date the FCA 
publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £160,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs  I consider are appropriate.  Where I consider fair compensation requires 
payment of an amount that might exceed  £160,000 I may recommend the business  pays the 
balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Hunter  & Co to pay Mr R the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount doesnt  exceed  £160,000, I additionally require  Hunter & 
Co to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £160,000, I only require Hunter & Co to 
pay Mr R any interest  as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Hunter & Co pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend  any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance  to be paid to Mr R. 
If Mr R accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Hunter  & Co. My 
recommendation isnt binding  on Hunter & Co. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN126639214my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Hunter & Co (IFA) Limited must redress Mr R as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1266392