K820x#14complaint
Miss Js complaint is about the level of commission received  by Grattan Plc (Grattan) on 
her payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy that was attached to a store  card.
background
Grattan says it looked at Miss Js store  card account to determine whether  it was going to 
offer any compensation for the level of commission and profit share it received. It said that 
as Miss J hadnt paid any premiums after 6 April 2007 it didnt  have to pay her any 
compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. They explained that we can only look at whether 
Grattan treated Miss J unfairly about commission from 6 April 2007 and as it didnt look like 
Miss J had paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007, they didnt think Grattan had to refund  
any of the commission  Miss J paid.
Miss J didnt  agree with what  the adjudicator said. She says she believes she is entitled to a 
refund of any commission she paid as part of her premiums, regardless of when they were 
paid.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved it has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Js complaint and Ill explain why.
why 6 April 2007  is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  give a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended 
and complaints about store cards, like Miss Js, became  something  we could look at. But 
only about things  that happened  on, or after 6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
what does this mean for Miss J.
This means  that I can only look at whether Grattan treated Miss J unfairly in relation  to the 
commission and profit share it received  on any premiums Miss J paid after 6 April 2007  
and not before.
Grattan has said that Miss J wasnt charged any premiums after this date. So it doesnt  need 
to refund anything. As Miss J didnt pay anything for the PPI, there is nothing for it to 
consider giving back.  
Ref: DRN11385932Grattan has provided  a transaction summary  of Miss Js store  card account. It shows  that 
while Miss Js store  card continued to run after January 2006,  she didnt pay any premiums 
for her PPI from this date onwards. 
Having considered the evidence provided by both Miss J and Grattan, I think  its unlikely 
Miss J paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007. That means  I cant tell Grattan to pay   
Miss J back  any of the commission or profit share  she paid for the PPI sold with her store  
card.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1138593