K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains about a car supplied  to him under a conditional  sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Background
In June 2018 Mr D took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  to cover the cost 
of a used car. The car was six years  old and had travelled 101,000  miles.
In November 2018 Mr D noticed the heating in the car wasnt working. At the beginning of 
December 2018  he took the car to a garage  where it was inspected  and the problem was 
identified as a faulty head gasket.
In January 2019 Mr D complained to Moneybarn.  It said that because the complaint had 
been made more  than six months after hed bought the car, the onus was on him to show 
the fault was present at the time of sale. It said he hadnt provided  sufficient  evidence  to 
show this was the case. It also said it didnt consider there  to be an issue with the quality of 
the car because hed driven the car for more than 5,000 miles before reporting the fault.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint  should be upheld. He felt that Mr D had provided 
sufficient evidence to show the car was not of satisfactory quality. He thought  Moneybarn  
should pay the full cost of the repair. He also said that it should repay Mr D three  monthly 
instalments as he didnt  have  use of the car for this time.
Moneybarn disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Moneybarn supplied Mr D with the car under the conditional sale agreement it had with him. 
Theres a term implied  in the agreement that the car would be of satisfactory  quality. What is 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory given 
the price,  description  and other relevant circumstances. In this case this would include things 
such as the age and mileage of the car.
Mr Ds car was six years old and had 101,000  miles on the clock when he got it. So, a 
reasonable person might  expect to have to repair or replace some of the parts of the car 
over time.
Moneybarn agreed  with the car dealer who supplied the car that the part may have failed 
because of a low level of coolant. And it said it was Mr Ds responsibility to keep the car 
properly maintained.
I disagree. The mechanics report obtained by Mr D states that after investigation it was clear 
that a poor attempt  had previously been  made  to repair  the head gasket. The report  explains 
an attempt to fix a leak, and damage where  someone had tried to clean up the repair job. 
The report  says it was this that caused the head gasket to fail. So Im satisfied that it wasnt  
Ref: DRN11168752Mr Ds fault. And because the report is clear about  the cause of the failure, Im also satisfied 
that the fault didnt develop due to wear  and tear.
The report  also shows that the engineer first looked  at the car on 1 December 2018.  And 
Mr D made  the car dealer  aware of the issues shortly after. So Im satisfied that the faults 
were apparent within six months of him getting the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that goods must be of satisfactory quality,  and where 
theyre not, there  is a breach of contract. The Act explains  the consumer has a right to have 
faulty goods repaired if the fault is notified 30 days after the start of the contract. And it also 
says that the trader, in this case Moneybarn,  must  pay for the necessary costs to do this.
Im satisfied that the report  supplied by Mr D shows that it was the earlier repair that caused  
the damage. Ive not seen  any evidence to suggest  the repair was carried  out while  Mr D 
had the car. Moneybarn  hasnt provided  any evidence to suggest the work had been carried 
out after the car was supplied to Mr D. Ive also thought  about  the length  of time he had the 
car before he discovered the fault.  He says he first raised the issue when he had a problem 
with the heating as winter  approached, and that sounds reasonable to me. Im also satisfied 
that the report indicates that the previous  attempt  to repair the problem is likely to have 
prevented the fault from being  noticeable sooner.
I find the mechanics evidence to be persuasive,  and for that reason, Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that the fault was present  at the time the car was supplied.  The fault 
resulted in the need to replace the head gasket, a key engine part that can lead to engine 
failure if not working properly. This means that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr D.
Mr D has already paid for the car to be repaired.  As its likely that Moneybarn  would have 
had to carry out the same repair as hes paid for, I think the fair thing to do here is for 
Moneybarn to pay for the cost of the work  done, plus interest.  It should  pay the cost as 
stated on the invoice supplied by Mr D. The garage that completed the repair  has confirmed 
to our investigator that all work on the invoice was essential to fix the faulty head gasket.
Im also satisfied that Mr D was without the use of the car while waiting for it to be repaired. 
The car went into the garage  on 1 December 2018, and the invoice is dated  4 February 
2019. This is in line with Mr Ds statement that he was without the car for two months  not 
three as our investigator had said. Im aware  that Mr D had use of a courtesy car, but for 
only four days.  So I think its reasonable for Moneybarn to refund the two monthly payments 
made by Mr D covering  December 2018 and January 2019, plus interest.  I accept that 
Moneybarn hadnt  been made aware  of the problem with the car. But I think it was 
reasonable for Mr D to use his own garage, as the dealer had only offered to repair the cost 
at Mr Ds own expense.
I note that neither Moneybarn nor the dealer that supplied the car had the opportunity to 
inspect it. The test here is whether or not it was reasonable to conclude  that the fault was 
present at the point of sale and meant the car was not of satisfactory quality.  And Im 
satisfied that the report provided by Mr Ds mechanic shows that was more than likely to be 
the case.
Ref: DRN11168753My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited must:
Pay Mr D £2,099.01  for the repair,  plus 8% simple interest per year from the date it 
was paid to the date of settlement*
Refund Mr D the two monthly  repayments he made for the period December 2018 
and January 2019, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date each payment was 
made to the date of settlement*
*If Moneybarn No. 1 Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1116875