K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont allow him a further term extension  on his 
interest only mortgage, the term of which has come to an end.
background 
Mr M has an interest only mortgage with Barclays. The balance  in May 2016  was 
£777,223.47 with a property valuation  of £1.9 million. As the mortgage term was coming to 
an end Mr M applied  and got a three-year  extension  with the repayment vehicle being the 
sale of the property or an equity release mortgage  on his house.  But as that extended period 
ended neither had occurred. In 2019 Mr M applied for a further extension for 18-24 months  
so the mortgage could  continue until his 70th birthday which  was 15 September 2020  when 
he would  the apply for an equity release product.  Barclays refused this further  extension  as it 
said that Mr M had sufficient equity to redeem the mortgage. Mr M brought  his complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and issued a number of views.  Firstly,  in July 2020, 
as she felt that Mr M had a credible plan to pay off the mortgage  by equity release, she 
suggested that Barclays allow a term extension until 31 December 2020  to allow  him to 
arrange an equity  release  product after his 70th birthday. Barclays  accepted that it would 
allow, subject to conditions, an extension of the mortgage until the end of 2020. Mr M then 
indicated that he would  like an extension until May 2021 when his partner became 68 but felt 
that he should get an extension in any case until he was 75. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that Barclays should provide a further longer-term extension to Mr Ms 
mortgage. Mr M disagreed saying  in summary that Barclays treated him unfairly. Mr M says 
that his expectation when  he changed his mortgage  to Barclays in 2008 was that he could 
always extend his mortgage and that it had changed  its policy  which was unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, on reading  the file I recognise  that Mr M has a serious  illness and now undergoing  a 
course of therapy that I hope works  well and he has my best wishes. I recognise  that the last 
few years have been difficult  for him, with the death of his partners father, his illness and 
shielding during the pandemic.  Mr M has a mortgage with Barclays the actual term of which  
came to an end five years ago. I can see that there remains a substantial mortgage  balance 
on the property  and there is also substantial equity. Although Mr M has savings, these alone 
wont pay the mortgage balance nor, given the size of the balance,  is there  the possibility 
that a repayment  mortgage would pay off the loan within a reasonable period. Mr M has the 
ability to pay the interest  with his savings, and I can see that he has offered to pay the 
interest in advance, but he was loaned money  which under the terms of his mortgage with 
Barclays was to be repaid  five years ago and that cant  be paid from his savings.
Mr M got a three-year extension to his interest  only mortgage in 2016. At that time according 
to Barclays notes, it was his intention to repay the mortgage by either selling the property 
and downsizing  or obtaining  an equity  release  product. But at the end of that period  neither 
of these events  had occurred. When Mr M brought this complaint, it was to allow Mr M a time 
Ref: DRN12710842- until September 2020 - when  he reached  his 70th birthday and to apply for equity release. 
Although Mr M effectively got that time, he then indicated that he would like a further 
extension until his partners 68th birthday in May 2021. That time also has passed. 
But I note that in asking for a review of his complaint that in his email of 31 March 2021 Mr M 
says that equity release doesnt  suit his plans as the high redemption penalties  conflict  with 
his desire to downsize to the coast  in the next 2-3 years and that they would be happy  to 
continue with what he calls the present  flexible  facility with Barclays.  I also note that in his 
email of 29 April 2021  Mr M has again indicated that he has issues  with the suitability of 
equity release and that if I did not find in his favour  that he would like 6-8 weeks to do the 
property up for sale and then put it on the market.
The difficulty  with this complaint is that Mr M requested time to organise an equity release 
product, and he got that time but is now of the view that such  a product would be unsuitable. 
Barclays agreed to give him that time and I think that was reasonable. It isnt Barclays  fault 
that Mr M changed his plans and has decided that was no longer a suitable option  for him. 
The issue  that remains is the repayment  of the substantial mortgage balance  of nearly 
£800,000. 
Mr M says that he was promised when  he took out the mortgage with Barclays  that 
extending mortgage terms would be no problem. But Mr M agreed a mortgage  contract  for a 
specified number  of years, not for a term, as he suggests, that would be determined solely 
by himself. I see nothing in writing from Barclays confirming that the term of the mortgage  
was other  than for a specified number  of years. Nor do I see anything wrong with Barclays  
adjusting its policy on interest only mortgages over the years in line with its assessment of 
risk and the requirements of regulation. But clearly Barclays loaned money for a period and 
like any lender would expect the capital  to be returned and its expectation was that this 
would have been in 2016.  
Mr M now asks for a further extension for two to three years to sell and downsize.  Ive noted 
that given the substantial  balance and Mr Ms income that there would be no other  
repayment strategy available and that hes told us an equity release product is unsuitable for 
him.  But Mr M can sell the property presently and downsize. I cant  see how his best 
interests would  be served by waiting a further two to three years if it can be done in the near 
future when  there is substantial equity in the property.  Nor is it fair for me to require 
Barclays, which has already facilitated Mr M with a previous term extension, to wait a further 
number of years before  its balance is repaid.
So, for the above reasons  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  I recognise  that it may take a 
period for Mr M to organise  the sale of the property and I would urge Barclays to allow  Mr M 
a reasonable period to prepare the property  for sale and to sell it. Ive noted that Mr M has 
had serious health  problems  and has been  shielding and I trust that Barclays will be 
sensitive to those  issues. I would also urge Mr M to provide Barclays  with all reasonable 
information that it would require in relation  to the progress of the sale. But for the above  
reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2021.
Ref: DRN12710843Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1271084