K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC,  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she applied  for a new credit card in 1995. Her application related to a joint 
Barclaycard Visa and Mastercard and the PPI covered both of these.
The PPI protected  Mrs F against losing her job or being unable  to work.
background
I see that Mrs F has already been  paid some  money  back  in relation to part of the 
commission Barclays got from selling  her the PPI. This is in connection  with rules recently 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority.
However, one of our adjudicators said that the complaint about the actual mis-sale shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs F disagrees with this and believes  the PPI was mis-sold to her in the first 
place. The complaint has therefore  been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs mis-sale  complaint.
These events are obviously from around 24 years ago. So it seems  to me that the best 
record we still have  from the sale is Mrs Fs credit card application form, dated 1995. On the 
form, I can see Mrs F was given  the option  of whether or not to have PPI. There was a 
section which was headed Payment Protection  Plan. In this section, there was an option 
box to mark if she wanted to have any PPI cover. And there was another  box which she 
could use to decline the PPI. 
On her form I can see a tick was placed  into the first of these boxes beside a statement 
which read Yes, I want my Barclaycard account  to be covered against  unemployment,  
sickness and death.. The box directly below this read No, I do not require protection..  
So I think these things  show  Mrs F would  have been able to see that she had a choice when 
she applied  for her credit card. She could have just as easily  ticked the box declining  the PPI 
which would have meant it wasnt added to her account. I think  the fact she ticked  the first 
option is evidence  she wanted PPI at the time.
Barclays conceded it may have recommended the PPI during the sale.  If it advised  her, 
Barclays had an additional  responsibility to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
I think the policy was suitable for her because she was eligible for the cover  and not caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  And my knowledge of what 
this policy  cost is that it would have been affordable for Mrs F.
Mrs F told us she didnt  need any PPI because she had some protection from sickness  
through her job. I understand the point shes making but Im afraid  this doesnt necessarily 
Ref: DRN10582092mean the PPI wasnt suitable. In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy,  Mrs F 
would have been able to have her outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up 
to 12 months. This would have been in addition to any other means she had at the time.
I cant say Mrs F was given all the information  she should  have  been.  But I think her 
application form showed there  was a cost to this PPI, directly next to where she made  her 
selection. I also see the PPI showed  up on her monthly statements over many years.
For me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely that Mrs F wasnt  given 
an option or there were some other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I simply 
dont have that evidence. 
I can see Mrs F specifically selected  the PPI when she filled in her credit  card application. 
I cant say why she did this, but I think its most likely she thought  the protection  was 
something she wanted to have  at the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint and I dont require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything more. My understanding is that it has already paid Mrs F for 
the part of the commission it received which was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1058209