K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have declined  an 
insurance claim she made under her contents insurance policy.   
background
In July of last year, Ms W made a claim as her sofa had been damaged after being jumped  
on. Lloyds sent a third party technician to assess the damage at the start of August.  The 
technician reviewed the damage and confirmed the claim would be covered and the sofa 
was repairable. However he wasnt able to go ahead  and carry out the repair until the policy  
excess had been  paid by Ms W. 
Ms W wasnt able to pay the excess straight  away. It was paid at the end of August when 
Ms W advised Lloyds that further damage  had been  caused to the sofa as a result  of how 
the technician  had left it. She said the technician had left the leather open and removed the 
back of the sofa,  and therefore using it had caused  further damage.
Another visit was made  and the technician found  the further damage meant the sofa was 
now beyond repair. Lloyds said that Ms W had continued to use the sofa after being told not 
to. They said the further damage had not been caused as a result of how the previous 
technician had left the sofa, but because it was used by Ms W before the repair could be 
carried out. Because of this, Lloyds declined the claim  but offered Ms W £200 which  they 
said is what it wouldve cost them to cover  the initial repair. 
Ms W complained. She said the technician had told her she could still use the sofa and that 
the damage caused was as a result  of how he had left it after the first visit. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Lloyds hadnt done anything  wrong. She explained 
that only accidental  damage was covered by Ms Ws policy and that the further damage was 
there as a result of Ms W continuing  to use the sofa rather than anything the first technician 
did. She explained that as Ms W hadnt mitigated her losses,  she wouldnt ask Lloyds to 
cover the claim. 
Ms W disagreed with the investigator so the complaint has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed everything I agree with 
the investigator and wont  be asking Lloyds  to pay Ms Ws claim. Ill explain why. 
Ms W says the technician told her she could  continue  to use the sofa, however the 
technician states  the opposite. As I dont know exactly what was said, I must base my 
findings on the information I do have  and weigh up what I think is most  likely to have 
happened. 
Ive had a look at the photos showing the difference  in damage between  the two visits. Its 
clear that further  damage was caused  in the time it took Ms W to pay her policy excess. And 
while Im no expert, Ive read the report sent by the technician which states:
Ref: DRN10390922The policyholder admits she continued  to use the sofa, and this has caused  further 
damage. She has therefore  gone  against the instruction of the restoration agents, and 
damaged the sofa to the point  of this being  non-restorable.  The frame  is now too badly 
damaged, and the leather  would  need  replacing.  Before,  it was a simple re-attachment  of 
the sofa (broken  areas to be glued,  screw brackets  from outer side,  glue screw blocks  on 
inside to support back frame), with no leather  replacement .
Having read through the report  Im minded to agree, as I havent seen anything  to suggest 
that what the first technician done  could have  led to the level of damage that occurred four 
weeks later.  I also think the information in the report is consistent with the photos showing 
the damage that occurred between the two visits. 
Ms Ws policy covers  claims  for accidental damage, which is defined as:
An accident that causes  physical  damage,  which is caused suddenly by an outside  force  
and is not expected and not deliberate. 
Because Ms W continued  to use the sofa knowing it was already  damaged,  I cant agree the 
claim can be made for accidental  damage.  It wasnt sudden, and if something is already 
broken, it has to be expected that if its used  any further, more damage  may occur.  
Lloyds only need  to pay Ms W for the damage that was covered under the policy  that 
being the damage identified during the first visit. Because of this, I feel the offer of £200 is 
fair and I wont be asking Lloyds to pay Ms Ws claim for a new sofa. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I wont be asking Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to pay Ms Ws claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1039092