K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss D took out to cover  the payments  on a store card 
in 2000. Its been agreed  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Miss D that she had a choice about it. But 
Miss D says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent.
Both Miss D and FICL  say the PPI was sold over the phone. And FICL has sent us copies of 
the call scripts it says wouldve been used  in similar sales calls.  These  scripts  show that it 
wouldve been made clear  that the PPI was optional. So I think its likely it would also have  
been made clear  that the PPI was optional in Miss Ds call with FICL.
So I think FICL did make it clear that Miss D had a choice about the PPI. And that Miss D 
chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Miss D any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Miss D. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. Miss D hasnt been  able to tell us how long she wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay for. But I think its likely the policy couldve paid out for longer than she wouldve  been 
entitled to full sick pay. So it looks like it couldve been useful to her. And so I dont think  
better information about the PPI wouldve put Miss D off taking it out.
Ref: DRN12225712my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222571