K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complained that Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited refused to pay his 
pet insurance claim for out of hours  vets fees. 
background
Mr K took his dog to the out of hours vet after he was in visible  pain and distress. He said his 
dog had shown  signs of pain a few days earlier after a walk and the vet had prescribed 
painkillers. He said his dogs health  returned  to normal so he took him for a short  walk.  A 
short while later Mr K said his dog was in severe  pain so he took him to the out of hours vet 
as his own vet was closed. The vet gave  Mr Ks dog a painkilling injection so he was able to 
rest.
When he claimed on his policy  Red Sands  told him the claim wasnt  covered as the policy  
didnt cover out of hours fees unless  it was to prevent  a life endangering condition. It said the 
spinal or muscular condition the vet treated the dog for wasnt life threatening. It said the vet 
had previously prescribed painkillers  and Mr K had the opportunity to get more. It said Mr Ks 
dog was only in pain when it was picked  up and could  have  been  left to rest until morning. 
Mr K said the vet had prescribed  different painkillers and staggered how long theyd last. He 
said his dog had returned to normal health and thats why hed taken him for a short  walk.  
He brought his complaint  to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and thought Red Sands should pay his claim.  
She thought  Mr K had acted reasonably in taking his dog to the vets given his level of pain. 
She also noted that the vet had said the condition was possibly life threatening.  So she 
recommended that Red Sands refund the out of hours vets fee. 
Red Sands  didnt agree. It said Mr K had the opportunity to get medication without using the 
out of hours service.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks policy say Red Sands doesnt cover out of hours fees 
unless its to prevent  a life endangering condition. 
Ive seen the claim form signed by the vet. The claim form has a question that says was the 
condition imminently life threatening?. In response to this the vet has written  possibly . So I 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that the vet thought the condition could have been 
life threatening.  And I havent  seen  anything from Red Sands to persuade  me that the 
condition wasnt potentially life threatening. 
Red Sands  said Mr Ks dogs medication would have run out and he had the opportunity to 
replace this rather than using  the out of hours  service. However  Mr Ks explained that his 
dogs health seemed to have returned to normal and hed taken him for a walk in line with 
the vets advice. He said he wouldnt have left his dog without medication if he seemed it 
pain.
Ref: DRN13061292I can see from the vets notes that Mr Ks dog was still on some  medication although hed 
finished taking  others.  I think  its unlikely Mr K would have taken his dog a walk if he was still 
showing signs of pain.  I can also see Mr Ks dog was treated with a pain killing injection so I 
dont think it was as simple as just prescribing  more  of the medication hed previously been 
taking. 
Mr Ks dog was clearly in obvious pain and only able to rest after being  given a pain killing  
injection. Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to say Mr K should  have needed  to wait 
until the morning  to take his dog to the vet. And in any event  the vet confirmed  the condition  
was possibly life threatening.  
As the condition was described as possibly  life threatening  I dont  think  it would produce a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint if I allowed Red Sands to turn down 
Mr Ks claim. To put things right Red Sands should refund the out of hours vets fee in line 
with any limits or excesses on the policy. If Mr K has paid this already Red Sands should 
add interest to that amount at 8% simple per year from the date Mr K paid for the 
appointment to the date it makes payment.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance  Company 
(Europe) Limited to refund the out of hours vets fee in line with any limits or excesses on the 
policy. If Mr K has paid this already Red Sands  should add interest to that amount at 8% 
simple per year from the date Mr K paid for the appointment to the date it makes payment1.  
Red Sands  should  pay this within  28 days of us telling it Mr Ks accepted  my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1306129