K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about a car that was financed by a hire purchase agreement  and a fixed 
sum loan agreement with FirstRand  Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo  Finance).  He says 
the car was given  to him on the understanding it had a block  mod  fitted  but this wasnt  the 
case. 
background
In 2017 Mr P saw an advert for a car which  mentioned several available features including  a 
block mod.  Mr P subsequently entered into a hire purchase agreement and a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Motonovo to finance this. 
In June 2018, Mr P took the car to the garage  as it was going into limp mode.  The garage 
looked at the car and reported  that the MAF sensor  was faulty, the software  was for a 
350bhp set up. And upon further  inspection, the garage noted the car didnt have the 
particular injectors and turbo that Mr P says was advertised. 
Mr P contacted the dealership who agreed  that these particular parts should have been fitted 
to the car. So they agreed with Mr P that he could get these fitted  at a garage of his 
choosing and they would cover the cost. 
Mr P went  back to the garage whod looked  at the car. They  started the modification work 
but noticed that the car didnt have a block mod. And they also noticed that there was a 
crack in one of the cylinder  liners.  Their recommendation was that the car would need an 
engine rebuild in order to fit the block mod. 
Mr P complained to Motonovo who told him to get an independent engineers  report as they 
werent persuaded that the problem with the car stemmed from a missing  block mod. Theyd  
noted that Mr P had covered a fair amount of distance in the car as part of their reasoning. 
However, Motonovo agreed to reimburse  Mr P a proportion of the cost of the report.  
So Mr P had his car inspected by a third party engineer.  The engineer concluded  the 
following: 
in my opinion the damage to the cylinder  liner has been  caused by repeated warping of the 
cylinder liner wall over a significant mileage.  This is very likely to be due to excessive heat 
generated by the remapping of the vehicle ECU, in an attempt  to generate  350 BHP without 
all the necessary modifications to the engine  and ancillary components. In particular, the 
installation of the cylinder block modification (block mod)which  had not been installed. The 
block mod significantly reduces the possibility of cylinder liner cracking within  the engine 
when the power  is increased above the standard setting. In my opinion the lack of this 
modification had resulted  in the noted  damage to the cylinder liner. 
Motonovo investigated Mr Ps complaint and upheld it as it was clear  the block mod wasnt  
present at the point of supply as advertised and that this had caused faults with the car. 
Motonovo offered Mr P £300 towards  the £1,200 it cost to strip down  the car and £200  
towards the cost of the engineers report.  And they subsequently refunded  Mr P just over 
£300 for his hire car costs. 
Ref: DRN15975792Since this time, Mr P has continued  to dispute the compensation  that Motonovo  is prepared 
to pay him. Motonovo revised its position  to offer Mr P £3,740 which  represented the bulk of 
the cost quoted by the garage to repair the car. But Mr P remained unhappy with this. 
So our investigator looked  into what had happened. He said that Motonovo  should pay Mr P 
for all of the repair costs  quoted by the garage  apart from the cost of a new water  pump.  And 
a refund of the hire car costs Mr P had incurred that Motonovo hadnt already  paid for. Our 
investigator also recommended  that Motonovo refund the £1,200 cost to strip the car down 
and to contribute £200 towards  the cost of the engineers  report  that Mr P paid.  
Mr P originally agreed to the recommendation. Motonovo didnt and said they wouldnt  
increase their offer. They said their preferred choice was to allow Mr P to reject the car but 
he went ahead with repairs.  So Motonovo felt theyd already offered enough.
Since then,  Mr P has asked for further  compensation  in relation to a loan he took out to 
cover the cost of the repairs. This was because Motonovo didnt agree to pay him the £3,740 
as an interim payment. And Mr P also asked for the full cost of the engineers  report  to be 
refunded. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 4 September 2019.  My provisional  findings 
said:
It isnt disputed that the car was misrepresented to Mr P by the dealer. Motonovo 
accepts that the car was advertised as having a block mod included and that this 
wasnt included. Motonovo also accepts that the lack of a block  mod led to further 
faults with the car.  
However, for completeness, I agree that both of these things happened.  The 
engineers report  is pretty conclusive  on these points. 
As the supplier of the car, the relevant legislation states that Motonovo had a 
responsibility to ensure  that the goods  were of satisfactory quality and were not mis-
described. Im satisfied that neither of those aspects were met. And Motonovo 
accepts this too. So this leaves me to determine  what a fair and reasonable 
recommendation would be for Mr P. 
Motonovo clearly  feels their preferred course  of action would have  been  for Mr P to 
reject the car and hand it back.
I realise that Motonovo may feel their decision to cap the amounts they were  
prepared to contribute towards repair costs and reports was indicative of this. 
However, I dont think that Motonovo particularly  tried to dissuade Mr P from 
repairing the car when clearly that was his preferred  option. And I also dont think  
Motonovo made it clear that the reason why it was capping these costs was because 
rejection of the car was their preferred option  and that Mr P choosing to continue to 
seek the cars repair was at his own financial risk. I would have expected Motonovo 
to have made that absolutely clear if that was their stance and Im not persuaded 
they did so judging by the content of the phone conversations  they had with him. 
So, overall I think Mr P is entitled to reclaim  reasonable costs  that he incurred as a 
result of the car being  repaired. Ill now deal with each of these in turn. 
Ref: DRN15975793Report and repair costs
Mr P has now had the car repaired at his own cost. Hes sent me a copy of his bank 
statements which show that he paid a total of £4,980 for this. Ive spoken  to Mr P and 
am satisfied  that he paid the garage that originally provided the quote for the repair.  
Taking into account that VAT needed to be added to that original  quote,  I think the 
£4,980 Mr P paid was for the work  outlined  in the original quote from the garage plus 
the VAT.  
Motonovo offered to contribute  £3,740 towards  this cost as they felt that some of the 
work didnt  relate to the faults  caused by the missing block  mod.  In particular, they 
referred to the anaerobic sealant,  assembly  lubricant,  water  pump,  gearbox  oil, 
coolant fluid and oil pump. 
 
I understand that an anaerobic sealant is typically used when a car needs to be 
assembled or reassembled which is what was needed in this case as the car was 
stripped down. And the reason why the car was stripped down was to fit the parts  
that were missing from the car and to fit the block mod.  The assembly lubricant was 
used as part of that work  as well. So I see no reason  why Mr P should  bear those 
costs. 
Im satisfied that the costs for the gearbox  oil and coolant fluid should  be refunded to 
Mr P as well. The garage would have needed  to drain both of these from the car in 
order to inspect and start work on the car and in particular  the work  on the engine. 
And, from what  I understand, it is not advisable to reuse old fluids and oils when 
reassembling a car. So Im satisfied  that these are costs  that also should be refunded  
to Mr P. 
Im also satisfied, unlike  our investigator, that both the oil pump and water pump 
more likely than not was removed as part of the work that was needed to inspect and 
repair the car. I can see no other reason otherwise.  So I dont think this happened 
because of a decision to replace serviceable items. Or that this was decided  and 
discussed between  the garage  and Mr P. 
Id also reiterate that the garage mentioned that there  had been  several  items  that 
shouldve been  present  in the car but werent:  namely a particular  turbo, set of 
injectors, air filter kit and head gasket. So I cant rule out that all of the work that was 
quoted that Motonovo  disputes didnt form part of the work needed to fix all of the 
issues that had been identified which included not only what  happened with the 
missing block  mod but the items  that were mis-represented  as being present when 
they were not. 
Im satisfied therefore that Motonovo should  repay the £4,980  Mr P paid to the 
garage. 
Ive also considered the other cost that Mr P incurred from the garage. This was for 
£1,200 and covered work which was mentioned  in the garages  report as follows: 
wiring loom (due ESP systems fault), map removed to stock  (ESP systems 
fault), MAF sensor (due to ESP systems  fault), head  removal to check for 
block mod (no block mod carried out, engine  liner cracked),  clean  earthing  
points
Ref: DRN15975794Its pretty clear  to me that the work carried out to check for the block  mod is 
something Motonovo should be liable for, as they accept  liability  for the missing block  
mod and the faults caused by that. However, the garage found other issues that had 
been caused by an ESP systems fault. I understand ESP to mean  the cars 
Electronic Stability Programme.  
I think it more  likely than not that the ESP issues identified  resulted from the 
electronic software  being remapped so the engine generated more power (which is 
what Mr P intended the car to do). And because there were several items missing 
from the car, this would have meant  the car generated  excess  heat which I think  
likely contributed to the ESP faults. On balance, I think  it only reasonable for 
Motonovo to cover  these costs because of this. This will include  the cost of cleaning 
the earthing points  as this also relates to the work needed to fix the cars electrics. So 
I intend to direct Motonovo to refund  Mr P the £1,200 cost he paid the garage  for 
these particular issues, and interest. 
Mr P also paid the engineer £859 for the cost of his report. Our investigator felt that 
Motonovos offer to cap this cost to £200 was fair. However, I need  to bear in mind 
that Mr P incurred this cost because Motonovo asked him to produce  a third party 
report. 
I accept its possible that Mr P couldve obtained  a report for much  less than £859. 
However, he makes a valid point in that he was given a list of suitable engineers by 
Motonovo and was only able to find one who could do the report.  So I think  it would 
be unfair to penalise Mr P for this by him having to bear that cost. I dont think it 
relevant that Motonovo only agreed to pay £200 as I doubt  they would have known 
how much  such  a report would definitively cost. I therefore intend to ask Motonovo  to 
repay this cost to Mr P with interest.  
Hire car costs
Motonovo refunded Mr P hire car costs  of £140  and £160.03 in August 2018.  Mr P 
has since asked for further costs  to be refunded. The costs  and periods  of hire are:
From To Cost
21 August  2018 18 September  2018 £420.80
18 September 2018 16 October 2018 £578.88
16 October 2018 23 October 2018 £129.96
23 October 2018 6 November 2018 £248.14
                    Total £1,377.78
Ive seen documentary  evidence that Mr P hired  a car for this period  and incurred 
these particular costs.  And these  costs were incurred when the car Mr P had 
acquired from Motonovo had been stripped down and wasnt  driveable. Mr P has 
said he needed to hire cars during  these  periods  as he needed  a car to use for work 
and to get around. That seems perfectly plausible and reasonable. As Mr P was 
paying for the car which  he couldnt  use at the time because of faults that Motonovo 
accepts is their responsibility, its not reasonable for Mr P to have  to bear these extra 
costs. So I intend  to instruct Motonovo to refund these costs to Mr P, with interest.  
Ref: DRN15975795Further costs
Mr P has sent in evidence  that he asked his personal loan provider to increase his 
existing loan with them so he could pay the garage the £4,980  that was needed to 
repair the car. Ive seen  a copy of the respective  loan agreement and Mr Ps bank 
statement and am satisfied that Mr P took out that extra borrowing and that it was for 
the reasons he states. Mr P says he was told by his loan provider that the best way 
to keep his repayments low when including the extra borrowing was to borrow £6,000 
and extend the term of the loan for a further five years. Mr P also says the loans 
interest rate was increased because of this. 
Mr P says he took out the extra borrowing as he couldnt afford  to keep hiring  cars 
while his car  the subject of this complaint  was in the garage and undriveable. I 
can understand this. The hire car costs that had built up by that point were not 
insignificant and put a strain on Mr Ps monthly finances. So I can see why he opted  
to instead pay for the repairs himself. By this point, it was pretty  clear  that Motonovo 
had decided not to increase its offer of £3,740. And Motonovo wasnt prepared to pay 
Mr P this as an interim  payment. That was of course  up to Motonovo  to decide. But I 
can see why Mr P felt that he had to take the steps  he did to place less pressure on 
his finances and also to get back the car from the garage so he could drive  it. 
I think at the very least Motonovo  should cover the extra amount of interest that Mr P 
is needing to pay to his loan provider  for the £4,980  he borrowed from them. 
Otherwise, Mr P will be unfairly penalised  for taking a sensible course of action. And 
it shouldnt be forgotten  that this ultimately happened because  of the problems with 
the car for which Motonovo has liability. 
I also need to decide though whether it would be fair for Mr P to have to pay the extra  
interest on the extra borrowing that was over and above the amount he needed to 
pay the garage. That works out to extra borrowing of £1,020 (£6,000 minus £4,980).  
Having carefully considered the matter, I dont  think it would be reasonable for 
Motonovo to cover  that particular  interest  cost. I realise Mr P may feel he had little 
choice bearing  in mind  what  his loan provider said to him about the extra  borrowing 
(which Ive referred to above). However,  Mr P didnt have to take the extra amount 
out, and couldve  ultimately sought  to recover the extra cost on the £4,980 through 
us. So I dont think Mr P fully mitigated his position as far as the costs he would incur. 
So I only intend to instruct Motonovo to cover the extra interest  Mr P is paying on 
£4,980 rather  than £6,000. Motonovo will need to pay this from the point Mr P took 
out that extra borrowing to the point of settlement. As Motonovo  will also be repaying 
the £4,980 Mr P paid to the garage, he will be able to pay this to his loan provider 
and reduce what he owes. 
 
However, I need to take into account that Mr P now pays  a higher interest rate than 
before on his loan.  This also applies to the original amount he had as well as the 
extra borrowing. It simply isnt possible to work out how much extra cost this will likely 
be for Mr P over the course  of the loan.  Its impossible for me to predict how the loan 
will be repaid and when.  And presumably Mr P will be repaying £4.980 towards his 
loan once this is received  from Motonovo. 
Ref: DRN15975796I think the least complicated way forward would be to compare what Mr P was paying  
for the loan before  the extra borrowing each month  and what  he now pays. And to 
then pro-rata this against what  the interest roughly  wouldve been  had Mr P borrowed 
an extra  £4,980 rather than £6,000.
Mr P was paying £286.21 to his loan and this increased to £344.83  once the extra 
borrowing was added. So he is paying  an extra £58.62 each month. Ive roughly 
calculated the proportion of this which relates  to £4,980 of the £6,000  to be £48.65. 
Mr Ps first payment of £344.83 was on 28 November 2018 which means that, as of 
my provisional decision, he has made ten of these payments. So I intend to instruct  
Motonovo to pay Mr P £486.50 which represents  ten of these extra  payments of 
£48.65. Its entirely  possible  that Mr P will pay more of these amounts following my 
provisional decision. I therefore intend to instruct Motonovo  to take further payments 
into account once  I finalise my decision.  Once  settlement  is made though, I will not 
be instructing Motonovo to make  any further allowances for these  particular 
payments as Mr P will be able to repay the £4,980  he borrowed to his loan provider. 
Distress and inconvenience
I think the whole saga has caused Mr P distress and inconvenience. He was without 
the car for several  months and had to deal with getting reports  from an independent 
garage and the garage where the car was taken to, as well as arranging  hire cars. Mr 
P also may incur more costs as a result of increasing his loan. I think Motonovo  
should pay him £250 in respect  of the distress  and inconvenience he has suffered. 
my provisional decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as Motonovo 
Finance) to:
1.refund  £1,200 for the cost of the garages  report;
2.pay £859 for the cost of the engineers  report;
3.refund  Mr P £4,980 that he paid to repair the car;
4.pay Mr P £486.50 in respect of his further  borrowing costs, although as 
highlighted above this will likely  change once I issue my final decision;
5.reimburse Mr P with £1,377,78 for the hire car costs he incurred;
6.pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused
I asked the parties  for their comments on my provisional decision. Mr P replied saying he 
was happy with my provisional decision.  Motonovo didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think my provisional findings (as detailed above) are fair and reasonable. And as neither 
party has given me any further comments or evidence  to consider, I see no reason to 
change them other than to update the award Mr P should receive for his further borrowing 
costs. My provisional decision mentioned that Mr P had made ten extra  payments  of £48.65. 
Since then,  Mr P has made another payment so my final decision will be for Motonovo to 
refund eleven  extra  payments of £48.65. 
Ref: DRN15975797My final decision is to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive already given. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct FirstRand Bank  Limited (trading as Motonovo  Finance) to:
1.refund  £1,200 for the cost of the garages  report;
2.pay £859 for the cost of the engineers  report;
3.refund  Mr P £4,980 that he paid to repair the car;
4.pay Mr P £535.15 in respect of his further  borrowing costs;
5.reimburse Mr P with £1.377.78 for the hire car costs he incurred;
6.pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance)  should add interest  to points 1, 2 and 
5 above. Interest should be calculated  at 8% simple per year from the date of each payment 
made by Mr P until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1597579