K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H and Mrs H bought  the PPI at a meeting in 2001 at the same  time as taking a mortgage. 
It provided accident, sickness and unemployment  cover on Mr H, subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It would pay initially around £250 a month for a successful claim  to help Mr H 
and Mrs H pay mortgage-related costs. It initially cost a little over £15 a month  - payment 
was monthly for monthly cover (not a single premium in advance to cover the whole term).
Mr H was employed at the time of sale in a technical  engineering  role and had been there 15 
years. Hes told us he was entitled  to at least 12 months full sick pay and less than six but at 
least three months full pay for redundancy. Mrs H was employed by a local authority  for less 
than 16 hours a week and had been there five years. Shes  also told us she was entitled to 
at least 12 months full sick pay.
It would be unusual to be entitled to sick pay at full pay for 12 months   and very unusual in 
the case of a local authority. It is more usual, when  entitled to 12 months sick pay, to be 
entitled to pay at less than full pay for some  of that period  for example six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay is common. We asked  Mr H if he could provide more detail 
or evidence  of his sick pay entitlement. Mr H confirmed to us he no longer has paperwork to 
cover his dealings  with either Halifax or his employer at that time, due to the time that has 
passed since he last had such dealings.
From what  Mr H and Mrs H have told us, aside from Mrs Hs work pay and Mr Hs work 
benefits, they didnt have  anything, like savings, with which  to pay the mortgage if Mr H 
couldnt work. Halifaxs notes from the time record savings of around £10,000 between them.
Mr H has told us of a health issue hed had around  five years before the sale with which  he 
missed two days work. He hasnt  told us of having had, before the sale,  any other health 
issues or health related work absences.  Mrs H hasnt told us of having had health issues.
Halifax has sent evidence  to show the mortgage account closed in 2004. Mr H and Mrs Hs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  Mr H and Mrs Hs 
representative says,  in summary:
The information Mr H and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  shouldve  told Mr H and Mrs H 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN10193842The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr H and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr H and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr H and Mrs Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr H and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr H and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr H and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN10193843This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr H and Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. 
I note under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable  rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN10193844key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr H and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr H and Mrs Hs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and Mrs H 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr H and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. 
Mr H and Mrs H have said they had no interest  in PPI and have said it was just included  as 
part of their mortgage package. Theyve also said PPI was never  mentioned and was added  
without their knowledge and so it wasnt something they couldve made a choice about. 
I give what Mr H and Mrs H have said some weight. But I also bear in mind that, given how 
long ago the mortgage meeting was, it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr H and Mrs H didnt recall 
all the details of it vividly  now. In weighing up what Mr H and Mrs H have told us, Ive also 
taken account  of the evidence we have from the time of the sale.
To take the PPI, Mr H signed a Mortgage Repayments Insurance Application form  this 
was for the PPI only and was separate from the mortgage application. The form set out the 
monthly benefit  and set out that this was the sum of the monthly mortgage payment plus 
25% for mortgage  related  costs. It also set out the monthly premium payable. 
In my view, the form made clear that the PPI was insurance to cover the monthly mortgage 
payment plus some  associated costs   and made it clear what the monthly premium would 
be for the benefit  shown. 
Mr H and Mrs H have pointed out the form didnt call the cover PPI (or payment protection 
insurance), and instead called it mortgage  repayment insurance. Theyve also said they 
understood the form was referring to the continuance of an insurance related to the deposit  
that theyd previously had with another lender.  Ive thought about  this carefully. But in my 
view the form makes  clear what was being  insured,  as outlined  above - also the form makes 
no reference to a deposit or to insuring  a deposit.
Ref: DRN10193845The form was printed and then signed at the meeting with Halifax.  I think it likely the details 
printed on it reflect a discussion that had taken place about the cover at the meeting. The 
form says joint cover is possible  or cover on the main income earner only. Mr H and Mrs Hs 
form was filled out for cover for Mr H only  and says he was the main income earner. When 
Mr H signed the form,  I think its likely  he was aware he was applying for cover  on this basis.  
So, based  on what I have,  on balance Im not persuaded by what Mr H and Mrs H have said 
about not being made aware  of the cover  and so not being able to make a choice. Also, Ive 
nothing to suggest Mr H had to sign the application form for the PPI if Mr H and Mrs H didnt 
want cover.  And I think the separate form for the PPI tends to indicate it was separate from 
the mortgage and something about  which Mr H and Mrs H had a separate decision to make.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr H and Mrs H knew the PPI was 
optional, agreed  to take it and did so without undue pressure (bearing in mind they havent 
said they were pressured). But it would be understandable if they didnt recall all this now.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr H and Mrs H didnt on the form they sent 
us answer as to whether Halifax gave advice  or not. But if Halifax  did give advice, Halifax  
had to do more.  With all this in mind, I think its fair to proceed  on the basis that Halifax  gave 
advice. This means  Halifax  had to advise Mr H and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr H and Mrs H. Halifax had some information about Mr H and Mrs Hs circumstances  as 
part of their mortgage application,  like Mr Hs age, annual income and length of service with 
his employer. 
Also, the PPI application form suggests  Halifax established that Mr H was the main  earner, 
in permanent employment, working at least 16 hours  a week  and wasnt aware of impending 
unemployment  and that he hadnt  seen a doctor in the previous 12 months for anything  
that wasnt minor.
But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr H and Mrs H and 
establish they had a need for it. For example,  Ive nothing  to show  Halifax asked Mr H about  
his sick pay or redundancy entitlement.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr H and Mrs H given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr H and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion,  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H was the main  income  earner and it 
seems likely, even allowing for his work benefits,  Mr H and Mrs H would  suffer a fall in 
income if Mr H couldnt work  for an extended  time due to unemployment  or, given what  
Ref: DRN10193846Ive said above  about sick pay entitlements, sickness. The policy benefit would help 
Mr H and Mrs H manage  the consequences. Also, as regards  savings theyd chosen to 
keep rather than use to reduce  the amount they borrowed, the policy  benefit,  by helping 
with Mr H and Mrs Hs mortgage related costs,  would help them keep  those intact or free 
to meet  other liabilities - and at what could be a difficult time if Mr H were unemployed or 
too sick to work.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr H were unable  to do his own or any similar  job and unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But it 
still provided valuable  cover given Mr H and Mrs Hs circumstances and the loss of 
income they could  suffer were  Mr H unable to work for an extended  time due to disability 
or unemployment. Also, the PPI was to protect payments relating to Mr H and Mrs Hs 
home, so I bear in mind the potential consequences were Mr H and Mrs H to have 
become unable to make repayments  on loans secured against their house.
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost of the policy  appears to 
have been affordable  for Mr H and Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for them to claim.  As regards the health issue  Mr H has told us hed missed  a few 
days of work with some years  before the sale, Ive seen nothing to suggest  this caused 
him any further problems  that led to more work absences after that  but the policy terms 
didnt exclude  disability claims arising from pre-existing health issues in any case.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when offering the PPI or providing advice, Halifax  gave 
Mr H and Mrs H sufficient information  about  the cover provided by the policy  to enable them 
to understand  what Halifax  was recommending  to them and make an informed decision 
about whether  to follow that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr H and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments and 
related costs if Mr H were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment).  Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr H and Mrs H would have taken the 
policy without any sense  of what it was for  and having also considered their recollections 
and comments about the sale. In that regard, Ive explained above my view that it was clear  
the cover  was insurance for the monthly  mortgage  payment plus some associated  costs.
I also think it likely Mr H and Mrs H were  given an idea of the approximate costs,  bearing in 
mind that the PPI application form made it clear what the monthly premium would be for the 
benefit shown.  The actual cost and benefit would vary from this in line with variations in the 
actual mortgage  payment  due - the cost and corresponding benefit for Mr H and Mrs H was 
actually marginally lower initially than on the PPI application form. But the figures on the form 
wouldve still given Mr H and Mrs H a good  idea of what the PPI might cost and of what  they 
would get in return for what they might pay for it  so what  I have makes me think it likely 
Halifax made Mr H and Mrs H aware of these things.
Ref: DRN10193847But Halifax  didnt tell Mr H and Mrs H the exact cost or benefit  amount before they agreed to 
the PPI, and the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave  sufficient 
information to Mr H and Mrs H about the PPI exclusions or limitations.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr H and Mrs H, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr H and Mrs H all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr H and Mrs Hs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr H and Mrs Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr H and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value 
 and the fact much  of the premium  went to the business rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr H and Mrs H about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr H and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr H and Mrs H have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr H and Mrs H? To what extent did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H and Mrs H. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. 
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not they would have still taken the policy,  had 
Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr H and Mrs H, I have found the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
Ref: DRN10193848In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr H and Mrs H have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mr H and Mrs H would have acted  differently or whether they would have taken  the 
policy in any event.
Mr H and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively, the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr H and Mrs H had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised them  there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if Mr H were  
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted 
that product.  But they made  that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  
they thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr H and Mrs Hs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, although  I consider  it more likely than not Mr H and Mrs H 
knew they would have to pay something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax  told them the 
exact premium at the point they applied.  Having said that, Ive explained my view that they 
were given a good idea of what it might cost. With this in mind, what I have makes me think  
it unlikely the actual cost was significantly at odds with the expectations  Mr H and Mrs H 
wouldve had at the time Mr H signed the form to apply for the policy.  Indeed,  the cost shown 
on the PPI application form was slightly higher than the actual cost initially. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr H and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr H and Mrs H would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim  as the actual  benefit  would vary 
with the mortgage repayment.  But I think its unlikely their expectations about what the policy 
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely  than 
not the policy actually paid more  in the event  of a claim than they would have expected as 
there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN10193849The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr H be unable  to do his own or 
any similar job - and unable to do any paid work  his experience,  education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The PPI would pay out for up to 24 months,  rather than the remaining mortgage  term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr H and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H and Mrs H from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr H and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr H and Mrs H should the insured risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest they wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr H 
was in permanent  employment and pre-existing medical conditions  werent  excluded.  So I 
think Mr H and Mrs H still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr H and 
Mrs H might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr H and Mrs H from taking the policy, Mr H and Mrs H, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mr H and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H were not only unable  
to do his own or any similar job but also unable to do any work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what to 
do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  but, given their circumstances, 
on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr H and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited to a 
period of 24 months. This may have differed from what  they expected and might have hoped 
for. But Mr Hs redundancy  entitlement was significantly less than even 12 months income   
and I think it unlikely he wouldve received sick pay at full pay for as much  as 12 months, but 
the policy benefit could last longer than 12 months anyway.
So, given the loss of income  Mr H and Mrs H could  suffer were  Mr H to have  been  unable, 
due to redundancy or disability, to work  for an extended time,  I consider  it likely Mr H and 
Mrs H wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly payments would benefit them 
and help them manage the consequences  if Mr H couldnt work  in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. 
In saying this, I bear in mind that the policy allowed multiple claims and the benefit  could 
help reduce Mr H and Mrs Hs outgoings, making  it less likely their home would be placed at 
risk and helping  to keep any savings intact  or free for other purposes at what  could be a 
difficult and uncertain  time if Mr H were unemployed or too sick to work.
Mr H and Mrs H have also said they paid off the mortgage early in cash. They have said this 
would have included  a sizeable portion relating  to the PPI - and they say the PPI was paid 
Ref: DRN101938410for the remainder of the mortgage term and they couldnt have benefited from this payment. 
But the PPI policy here was a monthly  contract - payments were made each month for 
monthly cover. Payment  wasnt  made  in advance for the whole mortgage term  or by way of 
a lump sum charge added to the loan. So, paying off the loan early  wouldnt  have  involved 
repaying an amount  for future PPI cover in the way Mr H and Mrs H have outlined.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr H and Mrs H wouldve still taken the policy. It was suitable  for them,  sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr H were  made  redundant, or unable to work due to accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr H and Mrs H would 
have taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr H and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  Mr H and Mrs Hs 
circumstances into account  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr H and Mrs H found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position  
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr H and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr H and Mrs H wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they wouldve still taken the PPI had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr H and Mrs H compensation, as that would  put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ref: DRN101938411Im also aware Mr H and Mrs H think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr H and Mrs H, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr H and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr H and Mrs H and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find Halifax  had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr H and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019384