K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc have  mishandled his car insurance claim and 
have caused further damage to his vehicle.
background
Mr B was involved  in a car accident  on 16 February 2018 which caused damage to the 
passenger side door of his vehicle, as well as the sill, inner wheel arch and the nearside 
alloy. He submitted a claim  on his car insurance  policy with AXA,  and says he was advised 
to collect a hire car and leave his car for collection by AXAs  appointed repairers. 
Mr Bs car was collected  on 20 February  2018,  which then led to a number of issues that he 
was unhappy  with. In summary:
he had to contact  the repairer on a number of occasions  in order to establish where 
his car was;
he was concerned about the way his car had been stored,  as the damage  meant  that 
one of the doors didnt shut properly  and would not have been weatherproof;
the car wasnt returned  until the end of March 2018, and had new damage to the 
back alloy wheels and the rear door sill. There was also grease prints on the cars 
interior, and problems  with the electrics;
the tracking app on Mr Bs phone showed  that his car has been driven by the repairer 
on 13 separate occasions and had travelled around 100 miles.
A representative was sent from the repairer  to inspect the car, who conceded that further  
repairs were required.  Mr B says the repairer also agreed to carry out diagnostic tests in 
order to determine  the cause of the cars electrical problems. But following the second 
repair, Mr B refused to accept delivery  of the car as he noticed it then had even  further 
damage in the form of scratches and dents  to the paintwork. 
The car was taken back yet again for the damage  to be rectified, and when it was returned 
for the third time, Mr B was still unhappy  to find that the roof had not been resprayed 
properly, and that there was a slash to the offside rear tyre, as well as the electrical  
problems remaining unresolved. So the car was taken for the fourth time to be repaired, and 
was returned to Mr B on 11 July 2018,  which he signed for and agreed that there  were  no 
issues.
It wasnt until after the car had been  delivered, however, that Mr B discovered  yet further 
damage, as he says the delivery driver  had damaged the bumper.  He also noticed  chalk  pen 
marks on the side of the car, and realised that the parking  sensors were no longer working. 
Mr B complained to AXA about the quality  of the repair work and the service hed received 
throughout his claim. But AXA didnt believe that the damage sustained  to the bumper was 
related to the initial accident or subsequent  repair work. They also claimed that Mr B hadnt  
reported the additional damage until several  hours after the car had been  delivered, so they 
didnt think it was likely to have been  caused  by the delivery driver. But they did offer £60 
towards a wax and polish in order to remove the chalk  marks, as well as £100 
compensation. 
Mr B says that hed actually contacted  AXA within minutes of the car being  delivered. Hed 
also been advised that the chalk marks on the car could not be removed through a simple  
Ref: DRN14550682wax and polish,  so he didnt accept AXAs offer. Mr B also raised concerns about the 
diagnostics that had been carried out on the electrical problems   which  continued to persist  
 as he says he was promised an assessment by the manufacturer.  But it transpired that the 
diagnostics were completed in-house, which Mr B does not believe to be adequate, as he 
reports that the manufacturer agreed  that the problems he was experiencing could not be 
diagnosed through an in-house test. As no resolution could be agreed,  the complaint was 
brought to this service.
In order to try and resolve the matter,  both parties  subsequently  agreed  to an independent  
inspection in order to determine the cause and overall responsibility for the damage, and 
AXA appointed an engineer who completed  an inspection  on 26 October  2018. The engineer 
agreed that the electrical issues, damage to the bumper and issues with the paintwork were 
AXAs responsibility. But AXA have since contested the report  because  they didnt have any 
representatives present  at the inspection, so they do not believe the report to be impartial.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. She didnt feel that AXA had reasonable grounds 
to dispute the independent report, and felt that the recommendations contained within it were 
fair. So in order  to put things right, the investigator thought that AXA should pay for the 
repairs in line with the report  including another diagnostics assessment of the electrics to 
be carried out by the manufacturer  as well as an additional £300 compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA disagreed, and Mr B also felt that further compensation should be paid, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
AXA maintain that the recent  damage sustained by the vehicle  was not caused by their 
agents, as Mr B had signed for the vehicle to say that there were no outstanding  issues. 
They also maintain that Mr B hadnt reported the additional damage until several hours after 
the car had been delivered,  as no calls or emails were received on the day the car was 
returned to him. AXA also pointed out that the pictures Mr B took of the damage to the car 
showed it being parked in a different location  to where it was dropped off. So they didnt 
think the recent damage couldve been  caused by the delivery driver.
The car was delivered  to Mr B in the afternoon of 11 July 2018.  Mr B says the delivery  driver 
unloaded the car and parked it on the drive  in front of his van. And after the driver had left, 
he says he moved the car so he would be able to get his van out. It was at this point that 
Mr B says he discovered the additional  damage  that had been  caused to his vehicle,  at 
which point he claims to have called the repairer  and emailed pictures informing them  of the 
further damage.
AXA say that there  are no records of any contact from Mr B on 11 July 2018. But Mr B has 
provided a copy of the emails he sent to the repairer  at 14:12 on the same  day, where  he 
informs them  that he will be calling imminently regarding the pictures hed sent of the recent  
damage. Mr B has also provided his phone records to corroborate this, which  show  that he 
called a telephone number registered  to the repair company at 14:12. So I dont accept 
AXAs claim that Mr B failed to inform  them (or their agents) of any further  damage until the 
following day.
Ref: DRN14550683In terms of the pictures Mr B took of the damage,  AXA argue that they were  taken on a grass  
car park, whereas  the car was delivered  onto a concrete driveway  at Mr Bs address, so they 
submit that the car had been driven elsewhere and had sustained the damage after delivery  
as it was in a new location.  Mr B took the pictures of the damage  with his tablet, and he has 
provided the digital timestamp  which shows that the picture was taken at 14:09 (before the 
phone call) on 11 July 2018. Mr B says he had simply  moved  his car in order  to gain access 
to another vehicle  on the driveway,  and the digital  timestamp  of the photograph corroborates 
this as it also shows the location in which the image was captured, which  is recorded  as the 
same postcode as Mr Bs address.  
Im satisfied that Mr B had not driven  his car to a different location or likely  damaged  it 
elsewhere. And its understandable that he may not have noticed the further damage until he 
had repositioned the car, given that it had been  parked up against another  vehicle when it 
was delivered. AXA have argued  that it was several hours after the car had been delivered  
that Mr B notified them of the damage. But all the evidence Ive seen suggests it was not 
long after he had taken  delivery of the car that issues regarding the damage were  raised,  so 
Im not persuaded by AXAs argument  that the damage was likely caused after the car had 
been dropped  off. 
It was also because of the ambiguity surrounding  the damage that AXA suggested and 
agreed to an independent inspection  by an engineer. AXA appointed the inspection  
company themselves, yet later went on to dispute  the findings  of the report when the 
engineer was of the opinion that they were responsible for the faults he identified  with the 
vehicle. 
AXA do not feel the report is impartial as they didnt have any representatives present at the 
inspection. But I dont  think  this gives them  reasonable grounds to deny the 
recommendations of the report, particularly  given that they had appointed the engineer  and 
couldve readily arranged  for one of their representatives to attend the inspection. The 
inspection was carried out by a suitably-qualified engineer, and I see no reason  to doubt any 
of his findings  especially without comparable evidence to the contrary. So AXA should 
carry out the repairs in line with the engineers recommendations, but given the previous 
issues and breakdown in relationship between Mr B and the appointed repairers, they should  
allow him the choice  of an alternative  repairer.
The engineers report also mentions  that all the electric [sic] on the vehicle are of concernI 
am of the opinion  that a new wiring  harness  and ECU may need to considered  to overcome 
the problems with the vehicle. Mr B suspects that his vehicle was being kept outside after it 
had been collected by the repairer, which  he thinks has caused  damage to the electrics as 
the car was no longer weatherproof  following the accident. He couldnt get a definitive  
answer on where it was being kept,  but given that it took a while  for his car even to be 
located, and given that moisture  has since been  identified within the car, it appears  likely that 
it was being kept outside and exposed to the elements. So, in line with the engineers  report, 
I do consider AXA to also be responsible for the problems with the electrics.
Diagnostic tests were  previously carried out on the vehicles electrical systems by the 
repairer, but seemingly  no cause  of the electrical  faults could be identified or put right, and 
Mr B continued to experience problems. Mr B says he has spoken to the manufacturer, who 
told him that a simple  in-house diagnostic test would not pick up the sorts  of issues  he was 
having with the vehicle.  Given that the independent engineer also had concerns with the 
vehicles electrical  system, I consider that further  diagnostics should now be carried  out by a 
Ref: DRN14550684repairer thats part of the manufacturers  approved network for such  purposes, and AXA 
should cover  any further works that may be required as a result  of the further  diagnostics.  
Mr B has expressed concern that he may be without a car while any further repairs  are being 
carried out. But I note that he was provided  with a hire car while  his vehicle was being 
repaired previously.  I would expect AXA to continue  to provide one for any further repairs  as 
this is a reasonably  foreseeable  loss caused by its negligence and/or breach of contract.
compensation
AXA initially  offered Mr B £100 compensation, and our investigator  recommended a further  
£300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by AXA and their agents.  Mr B 
thinks that he should be awarded further  compensation, as he has previously paid for 
additional insurance for his hire car, and will have  to pay more in the future for any further 
rentals hes provided with. It appears that Mr B is referring to optional excess  insurance that 
is sold by hire car firms as an additional  extra  to guard against the amount a customer would 
have to pay in the event  of any damage being caused to the vehicle. 
But such  insurance is not a compulsory requirement  (albeit  I accept is prudent  given  the very 
high excesses that hire companies usually levy), and if Mr Bs hire car is arranged  through  
his insurance policy,  then the hire car would  be covered by his insurance on a like basis  in 
any event. So I dont  consider that the additional insurance he has been  paying for is a cost 
that AXA ought to bear.  But for the distress and inconvenience caused by the actions of AXA 
and their agents throughout Mr Bs claim  taking into account the time he has been without 
his car and the amount  of times  he has had to send it back  to be repaired  I consider that a 
total award of £500 compensation overall would  be fair in the circumstances. I appreciate 
this is more than the investigator recommended, and that both parties  havent  had a chance 
to comment. But an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience is purely a matter 
of ombudsman discretion.  And given that Mr Bs car has had to be sent back for repairs no 
less than four times already  and given  that further  repairs are still required  I consider a 
more substantial award of £500 in total to be fair and more  in line with previous awards 
weve made on similar cases.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and direct  AXA Insurance  UK Plc 
to:
cover  the cost of repairs  to be completed  in line with the independent engineers 
recommendations, giving Mr B the choice of an alternative repairer; and
for such  repairs to include full manufacturer approved diagnostics of the vehicles 
electrics and any further works that may be required as a result;
pay a total of £500 compensation (including  the £100 already  offered)  within 28 days  
of being notified by us of Mr Bs acceptance  of this decision  thereafter interest to 
accrue on that sum at the simple rate of 8% per year until the date of payment (less 
any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN14550685Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1455068