K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) has not given her the correct 
amount of money  following  a cash withdrawal she made in branch.
background
Mrs D holds a current account  with Barclays. She visited  her local branch on 17 April 2019 to 
collect a withdrawal of £4,000  that she had pre-ordered and requested in £50 notes. She 
was handed the money  in a tamper-proof  sealed envelope by the cashier  and says she 
asked if it could be counted. But Mrs D says she was told that it could  pose a security risk as 
there were so many people around, and was reassured it had been checked  by two 
members of staff.
Mrs D says she went home after collecting the money and placed it in a locked wardrobe, for 
which she kept the key in her handbag. But upon  counting the money  the next day, Mrs D 
said she discovered that it was £500  short and that Barclays had only given her £3,500. But 
it wasnt until several days later that she went back to the branch to complain.
Barclays looked into the matter, and said they couldnt find any evidence of an error having  
been made. They said the cash was counted  in their counting house  under dual control  by 
two members of staff. CCTV was checked by an assistant manager and operation banker 
who confirmed that this procedure was followed correctly. Barclays  also said that no 
discrepancies were found when the tills were  balanced that day, so they refused to give her 
the £500. Unhappy with this, Mrs D brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint. He didnt doubt that £500 had gone 
missing, but didnt think there was enough  evidence to suggest that Barclays  could be held 
liable for it. Mrs D disagreed, so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mrs D says that Barclays have either  made a mistake or miscounted  the money they gave 
her, or that their staff have been  dishonest  and kept the £500. 
There is very little evidence available in this case other than the testimony of both parties. 
Barclays have said their usual procedure was followed, in that the money was counted under 
dual control and sealed in an envelope  that was initialled by two members  of staff. They say 
that two of their managers reviewed the CCTV and confirmed that this procedure was 
followed, and theyve provided  evidence  to show that the tills were balanced correctly  and no 
discrepancies were discovered. I appreciate  that the CCTV is no longer available, but given 
that the amount was checked by one cashier, and then double checked  by another, it 
significantly decreases the margin for error,  particularly as it would have been ten £50 notes 
that would  have to have  been missed by both cashiers. So in the circumstances, the 
evidence would suggest its likely the money was counted and processed correctly,  and I 
havent seen enough to persuade me a mistake was made.
Ref: DRN14802542In terms of the money being taken dishonestly,  again Im afraid there is not enough evidence 
to support such an allegation.  I also have  to take into account  that there were times when 
the money was not in Mrs Ds direct possession at all times before she checked it, and 
couldve been open to interference by somebody else.  
I appreciate she took steps to keep the money  secure and kept it locked  in a wardrobe. But a 
wardrobe cannot be considered as the most secure  of structures in which  to keep a large 
amount of money,  such that any third-party  interference could be ruled out (it does not have 
the same  dependability and security  as a safe, for example). Mrs D also didnt report the 
missing money to Barclays until six days after she had collected it from the bank. I 
appreciate she had to take care of her husband and didnt want  to report  it over the phone, 
but this additional time also adds to the uncertainty surrounding what  couldve happened  
with the money.  
I dont doubt that £500  has in fact gone  missing, and I can understand how distressing this 
has been for Mrs D. But in the circumstances, Im afraid there  is not enough evidence to hold 
Barclays liable for the missing money.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1480254