K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998. Mr C 
says Santander  UK PLC,  Abbey National at the time, mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Unfortunately due to the length of time since the policy was sold there isnt any documentary 
evidence available  from the sale. So Ive considered what  both parties have said in order  to 
come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.
Mr C says he was told he must take out the PPI in order  to get the mortgage.  But I havent 
seen anything to support  what Mr C has said and he hasnt been able to remember much  
more from the time of sale. While  this isnt surprising, given the policy  was sold to him 
around 21 years ago, its difficult to rely on his limited recollections alone  to fairly and 
reasonably conclude that something untoward happened.
On the other hand, Santander says that the optional nature of the policy wouldve been 
explained to Mr C in good time before the sale of the PPI was concluded. And I havent seen 
any persuasive evidence  to show that the policy wasnt  presented  as optional or that it was 
added without Mr Cs consent. So on the balance of probabilities,  and without any evidence 
to support what Mr C has said, I think its more likely than not that Santander made  it clear  
the PPI was optional and Mr C chose to take it out  although I can understand if he cant 
remember this now.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the policy was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr C says he wouldve received some sick pay from work  and also had savings he couldve 
relied on. But upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 months, and 
this wouldve  been on top of his other  means. So his sick pay and savings wouldve been  
free to use for other expenses. Its also likely that the mortgage was Mr Cs biggest  financial 
commitment at the time,  so having the PPI in place provided him with some  additional 
security. And so I still think Mr C wouldve  found the policy  useful had he needed  to claim 
and I dont think his existing sick pay or savings made the policy  unsuitable for him.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN19336352This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But 
Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Santander UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1933635