K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. Mr G 
had said he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing Limited offering him a pension  review.   
Mr G said he was told by transferring he could benefit from guaranteed returns and he 
wasnt made aware of the risks. The investigator  said St Pauls Marketing provided Mr G with 
promotional material relating to an investment in debentures issued by Just Loans. 
Mr G opened a SIPP and transferred his personal pension to it in April 2016. The transfer 
value was £25,199. £24,389 was then transferred to a stockbroking account and the majority 
of it was invested in the Just Loan  debentures.
Mr G, through his representative, complained  to Alexander  David  in June 2018.  I understand 
Alexander David didnt  acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The representative 
subsequently referred  it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to 
provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no files or evidence 
or arguments were  received.
The investigator said he thought, from the information provided,  that it was likely that St 
Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mr G. He said it had provided him with 
all the information  about the debentures and the benefits of transferring his existing pensions 
to the SIPP.  He said as St Pauls  Marketing  had advised Mr G on the investment he had 
considered whether the advice was suitable for his circumstances  at the time.
The investigator said Mr G was in his early 50s and his pension  was the only fund he had to 
rely on in retirement.  He said Mr G was a low risk investor and couldnt afford the risk of 
losing these funds.  Taking  this into account,  the investigator thought investing the
pension funds into high risk bonds wasnt in line with Mr Gs objectives at the time. He said 
an adviser providing a recommendation in the best interests of their client, should have 
identified this. 
The investigator said a high-risk investment  of this type would be more  suitable for an 
experienced investor with a capacity for loss. He said it was clear that Mr G wasnt  such an 
investor; he had little investment experience or capacity for loss. St Pauls Marketing had 
arranged the investment  for Mr G which was a regulated activity. The investigator said it 
should have followed  the rules set out in COBS.  COBS 10.1.2  said:
This chapter applies  to a firm which arranges  or deals in relation to a non-readilv realisable
security, speculative illiquid security, derivative  or warrant with or for a retail client.. .and
the firm is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware,  that the application or order is in
response to a direct offer financial promotion.
Following on from this, COBS 10.2.1  provided:
(1) When  providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client  to
provide information  regarding  his knowledge and experience  in the investment field relevant
Ref: DRN19051532to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to
assess whether the service or product envisaged  is appropriate  for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must  determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge  in order to understand  the risks involved in relation to
the product or service  offered or demanded.
The investigator said in his view, if it wasnt for St Pauls Marketings involvement which 
wasnt just limited to promotion, its unlikely Mr G would have gone ahead  with the 
investment.
The investigator also didnt think St Pauls Marketing had met its obligations  under the 
regulators Principles for Business.  He noted firms must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence;  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them fairly; 
manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and between a 
customer and another  client,  and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice 
and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
However the investigator didnt think St Pauls Marketing had followed these Principles. 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator  wrote to both parties on 19 February 2021 explaining
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final
decision. No further evidence or arguments  were provided. The investigator  wrote to both 
parties again on 4 March  2021. He said that having  reviewed the case he thought 
compensation should be calculated slightly differently to what  hed proposed  in his 
assessment. He set out how he thought it should  be calculated. Mr G confirmed he was 
happy with the revised  proposal.  No further  evidence or arguments were  received from 
Alexander David.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Gs original complaint or to the investigators  requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available, including Mr Gs recollections of 
events. The investigator  set out his thoughts  on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what  he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence thats  available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset  and following its input Mr G transferred his pension to the SIPP and 
invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual  for someone of Mr Gs background 
and experience to want  to transfer  an existing pension in order to invest in this type of 
investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened  without  the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
Mr G said St Pauls Marketing had recommended that he transfer  his pension when referring 
his complaint to us. The investigator thought St Pauls  Marketing had recommended the 
Ref: DRN19051533investment to Mr G. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the 
balance of the limited  evidence,  I think  its more  likely than not that St Pauls Marketing  did 
advise Mr G to transfer and invest in the debentures. And given the significant  risks 
presented by the investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mr G in his circumstances, 
particularly given he has said that he was a low risk taker with no investment experience.  
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr G I think the evidence shows  it 
was involved in arranging  the transaction. It was the promoter for the debentures, but Im 
satisfied, on the limited evidence, that it went beyond  just promoting it and was involved in 
arranging the investment.  
The debentures were  a non-readily  realisable security.  As  the investigator  said,  COBS 10 
required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Gs knowledge and experience  in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could  
assess whether the debentures  were  appropriate  for him.
The investigator said Mr G had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt 
disputed this. Ive seen no evidence of Mr G having a history of making this type of 
investment. The debentures presented significant  risks and were speculative.  In my view 
they werent appropriate for Mr G given his knowledge and experience and this should have 
been clear to St Pauls  Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the 
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr G. Like the investigator, I also dont think 
the firm met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business, in particular that it 
didnt pay due regard  to the interests of Mr G and treat him fairly, or take reasonable care to 
ensure the suitability of its advice as I think Mr G was entitled to rely on its judgment. 
Im satisfied that if St Pauls  Marketing  hadnt  advised Mr G to transfer  and invest  in the 
debentures, or if it had told him they werent suitable  or appropriate  for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr G to transfer and 
invest in a product  that he would otherwise not have  invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mr G has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr G on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Mr Gs 
existing pension was invested in funds  that provided a greater  degree  of risk than Mr G has 
indicated he was willing to take. I think with suitable advice Mr G would have remained in his 
existing pension scheme, but switched to an appropriate fund. So I think  Mr G would have 
invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely  what he would  have done,  but I am 
Ref: DRN19051534satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Gs circumstances  
and objectives  when he invested.
what should  Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr G fairly Alexander David should compare the performance  of Mr Gs 
investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value , no compensation  is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt  pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Gs pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should:
Pay Mr G £250 for the distress  and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter  has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from  
that interest, it should tell Mr G how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN19051535investment  
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple interest a
year from the date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr Gs 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the debentures its value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr G provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the debentures in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt  from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider would have been worth at the 
end date had they grown  in line with the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Ref: DRN19051536Any withdrawal,  income or other  distribution  out of the SIPP  should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on. 
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr G hasnt got the opportunity  to 
close the SIPP or switch  to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if 
Alexander David Securities Ltd cant buy the investment  and it remains illiquid, it should  pay 
Mr G an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff. This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr G would have transferred with suitable  advice. But I 
think it s likely he would  have switched to lower risk funds if suitable  advice  had been  given.  
I dont know exactly how he would have  invested, but I think the index I have outlined above 
is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Mr G was 
willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Gs risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was only prepared  to 
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  combination  
would reasonably put Mr G into that position.  It doesnt mean  that Mr G would have  invested  
50% in some  kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1905153