K821x#15complaint
Ms L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  accept  responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision. 
background
Ms L was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 1995. 
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ls complaint didn't think FICL explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Ms L. And didn't think Ms L would have bought  the 
policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Ms Ls complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL had a duty to give Ms L enough clear information about the PPI so she could make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. Also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think if FICL had given Ms L clearer information 
she wouldnt  have bought the policy.
I say this because  the policy Ms L was sold contained what  I think  are onerous conditions for 
making a successful employment claim if a person was self employed.  For example, the 
terms required the business to have totally ceased trading due to insolvency before  a claim 
could be made. 
Ms L says she was self-employed when she was sold the policy.  FICL  says Ms L has given 
inconsistent information  about her employment  status, and I can see that she has. The credit 
agreement Ms L completed and signed in 1995  shows that she has ticked the box to indicate 
that she was employed part-time at the time of the sale. Ms L has since  told us she also had 
another role and that was self-employed. 
Ref: DRN17609692Ive seen the phone notes  the adjudicator made  after speaking with Ms L. She was able to 
confirm her circumstances  at the point of sale and explain  both of her roles. But 
unfortunately Ms L has long since retired and didn't have any paperwork to evidence  her self 
employed status. However,  Ms Ls testimony  seems clear and I dont have any reason to 
doubt her recollection  from the time of the sale. 
So I think its more likely  than not that Ms L was self employed in one of her roles when she 
bought the PPI. And I think it would have  mattered to her that she could only have claimed 
for unemployment under the terms that Ive mentioned  above  - which  make it more  difficult 
for a self employed  person  to make a claim when compared to an employed  person. 
There was no information about these terms on the application form Ms L has signed when 
she was sold the PPI policy. So I havent seen  anything to show FICL did enough  to make 
the self employment claim  terms clear  to Ms L. If it had done, and based on the information I 
have, I think its unlikely  Ms L would have gone  ahead with the policy.
So I think Ms L has lost out because of what FICL  has done wrong and so it should put 
things right. 
putting things right
I understand Ms Ls account is closed.
FICL should put Ms L in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms L would  have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms L owed when  she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms L made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms L would have owed  
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms L would have owed each month without PPI  Ms L 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balances, FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Ms L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms L 
would have owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
Ref: DRN17609693D.FICL should tell Ms L what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from the interest. FICL  must  give Ms L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Ms Ls complaint and direct 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1760969