K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that she was mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) alongside a 
store card. Although the store card and PPI were sold by a retailer,  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL) has accepted  responsibility for the sale.
background
In 1997 Mrs O applied  for a store  card. At the same time, she was sold a PPI policy.
The policy would repay 15% of the account card balance if Mrs O couldnt work  because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It also repaid  the account if Mrs O died, and protected 
the purchases made on the card against  accidental damage and theft.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 September 2019.  I said that subject 
to any information  I received  by 17 October 2019, I was likely  to conclude that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.
Neither FICL  nor Mrs O have responded with further information. I have therefore looked at 
the complaint  again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
In my provisional decision I said:
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at whether Mrs O had a choice to buy the PPI. Mrs O says the PPI 
was never  mentioned to her, and she was unaware  it was on her account. She also 
says that she doesnt  remember  how she applied for the store  card  which isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  in 1997.  Ive thought about  what shes said 
alongside the other information I have about  the sale.
FICL has sent us a copy of the credit agreement. I see that to apply for the PPI Mrs 
O needed to tick a box labelled Yes, I would  like to protect my account with Account 
Cover. Please debit  my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. And Mrs O has signed the credit agreement to apply for the credit. So though  
Mrs O says PPI was never mentioned, I think its more likely that knew she had a 
choice  and she chose to buy it. 
FICL didnt recommend the policy to Mrs O  so it didnt need to check  if the policy  
was right for her. But it did need to make sure Mrs O was given the information  she 
needed to allow her to work out for herself if the PPI was something she wanted.
Its possible  this information wasnt clear enough. But based on what  Mrs O has told 
us about her circumstances, she appears  to have been eligible for cover. Shes told 
Ref: DRN10618862us she wouldnt be paid by her employer if she was off work sick. And while she says 
she might  have been able to rely on help from her family if she couldnt work, Im 
mindful that there was no guarantee this would be available  when she needed  it.
Mrs O also says shed  had a medical condition since birth, and Ive thought about 
this. I see this policy wouldnt have  covered  any medical condition which Mrs O knew 
about in the 12 months  before the start date - and I cant be sure FICL  properly 
explained the limitations on cover  for such conditions. But Mrs O has also told us that 
the condition didnt require medication  and had never caused time off work. Given 
what shes said about how the condition affected  her, I dont think better  information  
about the limits on cover  would have changed her decision to buy the policy  
particularly bearing  in mind that shed need to be off work for more  than 30 days  
before she could claim.
As such, based on what Mrs O has told us, I dont think clearer  information would 
have put her off buying the policy.
Ive now reconsidered  everything Mrs O and FICL have said.  As neither Mrs O nor FICL 
have sent me anything  further to consider, I reach the same conclusions  for the same  
reasons.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1061886