K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1990.  
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (trading at the time as Leeds 
Permanent Building Society) mis-sold  them the PPI. The policy  covered Mr and Mrs B for 
accident and sickness. In 1992  the policy was amended to cover Mr and Mrs B for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-
sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application. On it is a section  related  to PPI 
where the box opting for accident and sickness only has been ticked. Mr and Mrs B have 
signed this form so I think its likely to reflect what they wanted. Theres also nothing  on the 
form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think Halifax made it clear  that 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.  Mr and Mrs B say they had employee benefits 
they couldve relied on. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their employee benefits  
and for up to 12 months if they were  unable to work because  of accident or sickness.  So I 
still think the PPI was suitable.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. Which means  Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs B. 
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs B that I have thought carefully about everything they have said,  
I note that Mr and Mrs B are particularly unhappy that their PPI premium  increased in 1992.  
The evidence available suggests  that the policy was amended at this time to add 
Ref: DRN19033222unemployment cover   and its not unusual for a premium to increase in these 
circumstances to reflect the additional  protection. Mr and Mrs B say they were  unaware of 
the amendment. There  is very little information  available here so I cant  know exactly  what  
happened at this time, and without persuasive evidence  to support Mr and Mrs Bs 
testimony, I think  its more likely that not Mr and Mrs B were  aware of the amendment in 
1992. Although  considering the length  of time since the sale I understand why they may not 
now remember this. 
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1903322