K822xcomplaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the advice he received from Blackstar  Wealth  Management Ltd 
(Blackstar) to invest funds  from his self investment personal pension  (SIPP) into Paraiba  
Projects (Paraiba). He says that the advice was unsuitable.
Mr P is represented in this complaint.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. I decided to uphold the complaint and set out my 
reasons.
Mr Ps representative agreed with the provisional decision. Blackstar didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given that Mr P agrees my provisional 
decision, and that Blackstar hasnt responded I dont see any reason to change my 
provisional conclusions  and I confirm them here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd must calculate and pay redress 
as set out below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13984922extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the advice he received from Blackstar Wealth Management Ltd (Blackstar)  
to invest  funds from his self investment personal pension (SIPP) into Paraiba Projects (Paraiba). He 
says that the advice was unsuitable.
Mr P is represented  in this complaint.
background
Mr P had a SIPP with Indigo  Guinness Mahon (Indigo) which held around £37,000 in cash. He was 
introduced to Blackstar by an unregulated  introducer  for investment advice.  It seems that the 
introducer had told him about the potential to invest in Paraiba.
Blackstar completed a Financial Planning Report in February 2015.  Within the report  some of Mr Ps 
objectives were recorded  as;
to review his pension  planning generally,  
receive advice on the suitability of investing in Paraiba corporate bonds
to receive advice on the suitability of other investments
achieve a higher pension  in retirement, and
invest in less volatile funds.
Mr Ps circumstances were  recorded. He was 40 and in employment with a salary of around £40,000. 
He had 4 dependent  children with his partner.  His home was worth around £250,000 with a mortgage 
of £142,000, and he had £200 in savings  and £300 in shares.
Mr Ps attitude  to risk was recorded as medium  and his investment  experience was rated as 2, on a 
scale of 1 to 5, where 1 was novice and 5, experienced.
The report recommended 69 per cent of the SIPP  funds be invested in Paraiba and the balance into 
collective funds.  A telephone call soon afterwards noted that Mr P wanted a 60/40  split in favour of the 
Paraiba investments.  
It was noted that Mr P held deferred benefits in a pension scheme  with a former employer. This was a 
defined benefit scheme and he wanted to leave these benefits where they were.
The Financial Planning Report said that Blackstar would  charge £1200 for the advice and an annual 
fee of 1 per cent of the SIPP value.
A Paraiba fixed rate bond application form was completed for an amount of £21,000. Blackstar were 
named as the financial advisor  on the form which also stated, I have advised  the Investor  named 
above on their proposed  investment in the Bonds.
A revised letter of advice  was issued on 8 April 2015  detailing regulated collective  investments of 
£14,985 and the investment  in Paraiba of £21,000.  This document stated,
Should you wish to now proceed  with these new recommendations, please  sign a copy of this letter. 
This was signed by Mr P.
Mr P complained to Blackstar in 2018 but it didnt uphold the complaint,  and so it was referred to this 
service. Our adjudicator  said the complaint should be upheld. He said that the investment into Paraiba  
was unsuitable and gave  directions for the calculation of redress.  This was limited to the amount 
invested in Paraiba  as he considered the collective investments were suitable. After further 
Ref: DRN13984923correspondence with Blackstar,  they offered  to compensate Mr P in line with the recommended  
redress.
However, Mr Ps representatives didnt agree and said, in summary:
all advice  fees and SIPP management fees should  be refunded to Mr P with interest,
that the compensation awarded should not be subject to tax as Mr P would not have had to 
pay tax on the funds had they been held within his pension wrapper,
the award for distress  and inconvenience  of £200  was insufficient.
The adjudicator responded to say that he didnt  feel Mr P was entitled to the refund of advice fees as 
40% of his investments were in regulated collective  investments following the advice, and Blackstar  
werent involved  in setting up the SIPP.  He didnt change his mind about the award for distress and 
inconvenience. The adjudicator also explained the tax deduction was only relevant if the redress 
could not be paid into the SIPP. 
Mr Ps representative disagreed and wanted  the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached some different conclusions  to the adjudicator and so Ive 
made this provisional  decision.
Mr P was referred to Blackstar by a third party introducer. It seems that it had suggested an 
investment in Paraiba.  Blackstar accepted Mr P as its client and gave him regulated advice.
It recommended  that he invest  60 per cent of his SIPP  funds  into Paraiba. I dont think that advice  
was suitable for him. Ill explain why.
Mr P was 40 and so had many years before  his likely retirement.  His attitude  to risk was recorded as 
medium and so I think  he could afford to take some  risk with this pension.  He also had deferred 
benefits in a final salary  scheme which he intended to leave in place. He was not an experienced 
investor, and his experience  was rated at 2 on a scale of 1 to 5. It doesnt seem that he had much 
investment experience at all.
The Paraiba  bonds are high risk and unregulated  investments. The return  was said to be 11 per cent 
per year. That sort of return can normally  only be achieved  by taking a high level of risk. The 
investment itself is relatively new with no established track record.  Paraiba  invests  in the development 
of property in Brazil  including  residential  housing and a country club development.
The investment is specialised, speculative and non-mainstream. It is based overseas  and 
unregulated. There is no ready market for it and so its potentially illiquid. I dont think this investment 
was suitable for Mr P. Given his relative lack of investment experience, Im not convinced Mr P would 
have fully understood the nature or extent of the risks. And although  I appreciate that he had another 
pension, I dont  think  he had the capacity for losses  that could have allowed him to safely  take this 
degree of risk. I dont  think  recommending  that he risk 60 per cent of the SIPP funds  in this 
investment was good advice,  or suitable  for him.
I agree with the adjudicator on that issue. But Im not satisfied  that it is right to separate out this 
investment from the advice  as a whole.  Blackstar gave  advice in relation to the whole  SIPP. Whilst the 
collective investments  were not obviously unsuitable, the recommendation as a whole was not 
suitable. The recommended portfolio, because of the inclusion of the Paraiba bond, posed a higher 
degree of risk than Mr P ought to have been advised to take.
So I am minded  to uphold the complaint and direct that redress be calculated  on the investment 
recommended as a whole.
Ref: DRN13984924fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should  be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would  probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.  
I think  Mr P would have invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
 
what should Blackstar do?
 
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Blackstar must:
Compare the performance  of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Blackstar should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Blackstar should pay into Mr P's pension  plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Blackstar is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. This applies  only if the redress cannot be 
paid into the SIPP. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr P's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr P is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr P £200 for distress  and inconvenience  caused by the disruption to his pension 
planning. I agree  with the adjudicator that this is a fair award in all the circumstances.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Blackstar  deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. Blackstar should  give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN13984925actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
within the SIPP is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open market) as in this case. So, 
the actual value of any illiquid investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Blackstar should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid 
as I set out above.
If Blackstar is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. Blackstar may require  that Mr P provides an undertaking  to pay Blackstar any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Blackstar  will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark. This should be based on the full value of the SIPP at the time Blackstar advised  and 
before any charges were deducted.  This means that any charges will be included  in the redress.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr P's 
circumstances and risk attitude. investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN13984926my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  the complaint. 
My provisional  decision  is that BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd should  pay the amount calculated 
as set out above. 
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398492