K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 with a 
credit card. Mr J says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) plc mis-sold him the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because and Ill explain why. 
Mr J says he bought  the credit card and PPI on the phone but he wasnt aware the PPI was 
optional. He has also added it was sold without his knowledge. Neither HSBC nor Mr J still 
have all the paperwork from the time of sale. Thats not unreasonable  given how long ago 
the policy was sold. But where I have limited  information about a sale,  I have to decide  what  
I think is more likely. I appreciate Mr J strongly feels the policy was mis-sold and I have 
thought carefully  about what hes said. But Ive also looked at the documentary evidence  that 
is available in addition  to his testimony.  
HSBC says its normal process following telephone sales was to send customers  a credit  
agreement to confirm  their selections.  It has sent me a sample  document of the agreement it 
says it was using  around  the time it sold Mr J his PPI. This shows customers had to tick a 
box requesting cover.  They  also had to sign to confirm their selections in addition  to signing 
a separate box for the card itself. Weve seen  a number of cases from around  the time Mr J 
bought his PPI and developed a good understanding of HSBCs usual sales processes.  And 
I think the sample is likely  to be a good  representation of the document Mr J wouldve seen  
and this did make it clear the PPI was optional. He would  also have had to agree to it before 
it was added to his account. 
So, I think its more likely,  HSBC made it clear that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out, although given how long ago the policy  was sold,  I can understand 
why he might not remember this now. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr J so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr J got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, Mr J was eligible for the policy.  It 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so 
the PPI would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. 
Mr J was working and he says his employer provided him with some sick pay. He adds that 
his family  and friends couldve helped him to make repayments. But this policy  couldve paid 
out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work because  of illness, injury or 
unemployment. And while I have no doubt  his family and friends wouldve wanted to have 
Ref: DRN12868822helped him, their ability to help wouldve  depended on their own circumstances at the time 
which couldve changed. 
Based on everything  I have seen, I think the PPI policy could have  been  useful so I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking it out. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr J any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr J the difference  between  
what Mr J owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr J 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J. 
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1286882