K820x#14complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc didnt highlight the claims limit on her mobile  
phone insurance  policy. 
background
Miss P took out mobile phone insurance in September  2017. She made  successful claims on 
the policy for loss and theft in April and May 2018.  In October  2018,  she made a further 
claim for theft,  which  was turned down  because she reached the claims limit on her policy  
a maximum of two claims in a 12-month rolling period. 
Miss P was unhappy  with this. In summary:  
She wasnt told about the limit  she wasnt given any paperwork about  the insurance  
when she took it out in store,  and didnt receive  a welcome pack  in the post 
afterwards. 
Allianz told her in a call that she signed something in store  to say she was given the 
information, but she now understands that it doesnt have a copy of this paperwork  to 
prove that. 
Shes questioned  whether Allianz  actually sent the welcome pack,  and if so, whether 
it had the right address. 
Miss P added that when she made the second theft claim, she wasnt told she would 
only be covered for accidental damage. 
Allianz was satisfied it highlighted the claims limit, as its records  show  that the welcome pack  
was sent. It also offered  £20 for the service she received  on the call  as it hadnt been able 
to listen to the call recording to say what happened. 
Our investigator was satisfied that the welcome pack was sent,  which told her about the 
claims limit. Miss P remained unhappy,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that Miss Ps policy limits  the number of claims she can make  in 12 months. 
Given that this is a significant  term, Ive looked at whether Allianz fairly brought that to her 
attention.
Allianz have suggested that Miss P wouldve been  told about the limit when the policy was 
sold in store  Miss P says she wasnt. Ive nothing to support what  either side has said. 
However, Ive seen evidence that shows Allianz  sent a welcome pack containing  the policy 
document to Miss P in September  2017, just after she bought the policy.  The information 
was sent to the same address we have for her. 
Miss P argues this is just a record  it doesnt  prove it was sent. And given that Allianz made 
administrative errors in the handling of her complaint, the balance of probabilities should be 
in her favour. 
Ref: DRN13099562For me to be satisfied on the balance of probabilities, I dont  need  to be sure.  Instead, I just 
need to be persuaded that its more  likely  than not that Allianz  sent the welcome pack.  Or, in 
other words, I need to be 51% satisfied  that it happened. 
Here, its of course possible that the record is wrong  and Miss Ps pack  never reached the 
post. But Ive seen no persuasive  evidence  to suggest thats more likely.   In saying this, Ive 
considered Miss Ps points about Allianzs  failings  it sent her a letter mistakenly  and it 
couldnt locate  a phone call recording.  But these are unrelated problems that happened  
years after the welcome pack shouldve been  sent.  So I dont think  theyre enough say that, 
more likely than not, Allianz didnt send  the welcome pack  as the record  suggests. Its too far 
a leap to make. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the welcome pack highlighted  the claims limit. On page  5, 
titled [a] summary of the features and benefits of the insurance,  theres  a table which  has a 
row for the claims limit. For Full Cover , it states Loss and/or Theft  Maximum 2 accepted 
claims in a rolling 12 month period. 
On page 7, under the section [i]f Your Mobile  Phone or Connect  Device is Lost or Stolen, 
theres a question [i]s there a limit on the number of claims that can be made for Loss or 
Theft? It says: 
We will accept  a total of two successful claims in a 12 month  period for Loss  and/or 
Theft. The 12 month period begins  on the date We accept Your  first successful claim. 
Example: Your Mobile Phone or Connected  Decision is Stolen  and We accept Your  
claim on 1st May. This means we will only accept  one more successful claim for Loss 
or Theft before 30th April in the following year. 
So, while I accept the welcome pack is a reasonably long document,  I think the information  
was highlighted   the table plainly  and clearly showed the limit and there was a further  
reminder and example  a couple  of pages later.  
It follows that I think Allianz fairly highlighted the limit and could therefore rely on this to 
decline Miss Ps third claim in 12 months. 
Miss P also said that Allianz shouldve told her about the limit when  she made her second 
successful claim. But given that I think  this information was made  clear  when she took out 
the policy, I dont  think it had a further  obligation  to remind her again. It follows that Im not 
persuaded that Allianz need  to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1309956