K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that when Mrs M tried to deposit cheque(s) worth £6,504.35  at a 
branch of Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds), Lloyds subsequently lost it/them.  Mr and Mrs M feel 
that Lloyds should offer to pay for half the value of the lost cheque(s). Mrs M is also unhappy 
that Lloyds didnt respond to a letter she wrote to them dated 12 November  2018.
background
When Mrs M went into a branch in April 2017 to deposit money. It was busy and so to 
reduce the queues a bank employee  completed a slip for her and told her that they would 
process the cheque(s) she wanted  to deposit. 
Mrs M cannot  recall whether she was paying  in a single cheque of a number of them. She 
said she often makes  deposits to the account in respect of rental property receipts and or 
from her husbands business.  When Mrs M checked  her bank statements sometime later, 
she noticed the cheque(s) had not been  credited  to the account and raised this with the 
manager in August 2018. 
Mr and Mrs M were  unable to obtain  replacement  cheques because  they couldnt  establish 
how many  cheques they had paid in nor from where they had originated.  As such  they said 
they couldnt request replacement cheques.
Lloyds were unable  to locate the cheque(s) or give an explanation as to what had happened  
to them.  But they accepted they had failed to store, record  and process  the payments 
although they did not agree that they were  liable to Mr and Mrs M for the value of the 
cheque(s), arguing that Mr and Mrs M would be able to obtain replacement  cheque(s) from 
the payer(s). They offered  to pay compensation of £300 and said they would pay 8% simple 
interest on the account balance from April 2017 to the date the Mr and Mrs M put the 
missing funds into the account.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with Lloydss response  and so an adjudicator from this service  
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  Lloyds  had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed with that and so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on what I consider  is more likely to have 
happened in light of that evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral. 
It is accepted that Mrs M attempted to pay one or more  cheques into her account. There is 
no dispute as to the total sum she attempted to pay in. It seems  more likely than not that 
Ref: DRN17433752there were multiple cheques, since if there had been only a single cheque for £6,504.45, I 
think it is probable that Mr and Mrs M would  have remembered where  it came  from.
So I think Mrs M probably deposited a number of cheques. Quite  clearly,  those cheques 
represented money owed to her and Mr M by third parties. According to Mr and Mrs M it was 
either money  from their solicitor, or in respect  of rental properties  or personal payments. 
As the money has not been paid into their account then either it remains  unpaid  or it has 
been paid into another account.  The latter is a scenario Mrs M has advanced but for that to 
be true it would require  an element of fraud on the part of a bank employee. Whilst possible, 
in the absence of any evidence to support such  a suggestion, in my view it is unlikely. Were 
there to have been a fraud  committed by a bank employee it is more likely than not that the 
banks fraud  detection system would have  picked it up.
So the more likely explanation is that the cheques are simply lost and remain unpaid. 
Theoretically it is a simple  task to obtain  replacements. But, I do understand the difficulty Mr 
and Mrs M state they now have,  since they cant reconcile their accounts with the missing 
deposits. 
The cheque(s) from their solicitor would be very easy  to check since solicitors must  maintain 
detailed reconciled  accounts. I would have  thought  any personal cheques would be easy  to 
check too, since the payer would be well known  to Mr and Mrs M. I accept that recalling  
which tenant had provided a cheque  might be more problematic, but in running  a property 
rental business I am sure that Mr and Mrs M keep rent account statements and issue  
receipts for monies paid. It seems to me that it would be a relatively simple task to determine 
which rental payments  were therefore due in or around the date Mrs M visited the branch to 
pay them  in. Thereafter, it would be a straightforward  exercise to ask each tenant to show 
payment from their account  of the rent due at that time.  
So, like our adjudicator,  I dont think its unreasonable of Lloyds to expect Mr and Mrs M to 
obtain replacement  cheque(s) from the payers.
Regarding the service  Mrs M received, Lloyds did provide their final response letter  within 
time, which included  the details  of this service and Mrs Ms rights to come to us. That was all 
they were required  to do so I cant say they have acted unfairly  by failing to respond to any 
subsequent letter.
So, in my view Im not satisfied that Lloyds have treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. Lloyds  offer 
to pay £300 and the lost interest is fair and reasonable and in my view reflects the poor 
service Mr and Mrs M received, and I dont require them to do anything  more. 
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Ref: DRN17433753Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743375