K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under  a group income protection 
insurance policy which she had the benefit  of - and the service  she received when 
considering that claim.
background
In January 2018, Miss K became absent from work and was signed  off by her GP with 
anxiety and depression. She had the benefit of a group income  protection  policy  (the 
policy) through  her employer, which can pay out a portion of her income after shes  been off 
work for 26 weeks (the deferred period). 
Miss K wasnt able to return  to work  by July 2018 and a claim was made to Unum under the 
policy. By the time the deferred period had expired, Miss K also says she had symptoms of 
carpal tunnel syndrome and there were other health issues.
Unum didnt think Miss Ks absence from work,  throughout  the entirety of the deferred 
period, was due to illness - so it declined her claim.  Miss K didnt think that was fair so she 
appealed Unums decision. Unum  requested further  medical evidence  but didnt receive 
anything. Ultimately, it concluded it its final response  letter dated 5 August 2018 that it wasnt  
able to review the appeal  further without the information it had requested, and so, its 
decision to decline the claim was unchanged. 
Unhappy, Miss K complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss K disagrees so her complaint has now been  passed to me to look at everything  afresh  
and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before  I explain why, I want to assure Miss K that my 
decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the health  issues shes suffered. But for 
the reasons below, I dont think Unum has unfairly  declined her claim.
Unum has a duty to handle complaints  promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members  income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if he/she is unable,  by reason of their illness to perform  
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation  and is not performing 
any occupation
Insured occupation  means: the trade,  profession or general role that the member  
was actively undertaking for (the employer)  immediately prior to incapacity
Illness means: ill-health or disease  as evidenced  by a significant  or objectively 
determined deterioration in physical or mental  health.
Ref: DRN19178992So the focus is very much on whether Miss K was unable to perform  the role she was doing 
because of illness. Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence  available  to me 
when considering whether Unum has unfairly declined  Miss Ks claim. 
Unum has said that although Miss K reported a number of symptoms, the evidence doesnt  
support that she had an illness of such severity to prevent her from carrying  out the required 
duties of her role throughout the deferred period.  
The large majority of the medical evidence during the deferred  period refers to Miss Ks 
stress and anxiety being caused by work related issues.  
In support of her claim made  on the policy, Miss K explained towards the end of the deferred 
period - in July 2018 - that she felt depressed and worthless, was teary  and in constant pain. 
She says she had headaches and pain in her muscles, back  and legs.  She also reported 
that she felt exhausted, unable  to sleep, concentrate or socialise and was feeling very 
anxious. She also says that shed been  thinking about why shed been treated so badly (by 
her employer), that she blamed herself for everything and that shed been constantly  
analysing each event.
Some of the symptoms she describes having during the deferred period  such  as having  
headaches, not being able to sleep, lack of appetite and feeling anxious - are referred to in 
her GP records from around the time. And Im persuaded that it was the issues she 
describes having  at work which caused  those symptoms. 
Around the time Miss K was first signed  off work by her GP, on 22 January 2018, the GP 
notes reflect that she was experiencing problems at work and she felt shed been managed 
out since returning from maternity leave. It goes on to say that she needs  some time off work  
and seek legal advice.  
In February 2018,  her GP notes reflect  that she wasnt coping well and:
 was experiencing panic attacks. Seriously  struggling to handle  rejection. Meeting 
with boss tomorrow. Diarrhoea all day today due to stress. 
Its also stated that Miss K feels she will struggle visiting  the office the following day for the 
meeting and  subsequently - that she will be raising  a grievance.
In March 2018 theres reference in her GP notes  to work-related stress and that shed 
instructed solicitors to write to her employer. In May 2018 its stated that she continues  to 
deal with work related stress - and the bullying and discrimination shes  been subjected to by 
her employer. And in July 2018, at the end of the deferred period, theres mention of the 
grievance process with her employer being ongoing,  that shed been looking  through  past 
emails and this had made her more distressed. 
Ive also seen a report from a senior  psychology wellbeing  practitioner from April 2018 which 
explains that Miss K has low mood and anxiety, and suggests she partake in cognitive 
behaviour therapy. However, the report doesnt explain why she was feeling so low and 
anxious. But given  whats reported in the GP notes  from around this time, Im satisfied it was 
most likely the work related issues that shed been reporting to her GP. 
Ref: DRN19178993Miss K also says that she had a number of other  medical issues; namely  carpel tunnel 
syndrome, an issue with her thyroid,  borderline type 2 diabetes and she was under the care 
of an Endocrinologist  due to some of the symptoms shed been experiencing. She explained 
the effects of her health issues to Unums  nurse  when they spoke towards the end of 
November 2018.
Symptoms relating  to carpel  tunnel syndrome  which Miss K was eventually  diagnosed as 
having in Autumn of 2018  are mentioned in the GP notes towards  the end of deferred  
period. Miss Ks GP notes  reflect that shes suffering from a range of symptoms but the way 
the notes are written  seem to link the physical symptoms with the work stressors  shed been 
describing. I think its also important to note that Miss K wasnt  signed off work by her GP for 
any of these other conditions during the deferred period; she was signed off for anxiety and 
depression. Theres  also little to support that the other conditions she describes prevented  
her from working throughout the deferred period. 
So taking all of the evidence into account Im satisfied  that, during the deferred period, the 
barrier to Miss Ks return to work  was the work related issues shes  described. I think she 
couldve worked elsewhere  as the underlying issues she says she was experiencing with 
her employer are unlikely to have  existed if she was doing the same  role at a different 
employer. And, although  Miss K had been  signed off work by her GP, and not capable of 
attending her specific  workplace, I dont think the evidence supports that she was unable to 
perform the role she was doing more generally for the entirety of the deferred period. So Im 
satisfied Unum has reasonably concluded that Miss K wasnt incapacitated throughout that 
period. 
Miss K is also unhappy with the time it took Unum  to decide her claim, and to consider, and 
respond, to her appeal against the decision to decline the claim. It did take Unum  a while  to 
initially consider  her claim but this was because it was waiting for Miss Ks GP notes. These 
werent provided to Unum  until the latter part of November 2018  and I dont think its fair to 
hold Unum responsible  for that delay.  It thereafter promptly  considered the documentation, 
arranged for Miss K to speak with its nurse  to discuss her symptoms and her claim was 
declined on 6 December  2018. I dont think thats  an unreasonable  timeframe in the 
circumstances.
After Miss K appealed the decision  to decline her claim, I can see that Unum reviewed her 
points and decided  to request further  information.  So it looks like it was actively  investigating 
the points shed raised. Miss K was made  aware that it was waiting for more  information. So 
I dont think it acted  unreasonably when dealing  with her appeal  or asking for additional 
evidence. And having  not received the information it had requested, I dont think I can fairly 
hold Unum responsible  for its inability to fully consider Miss Ks appeal points.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2019.
Ref: DRN19178994David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1917899