K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr E between  January and 
July 2017. A summary of Mr Es borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate Taken Date  Repaid Instalments AmountHighest Repayment
amount
1 23/01/2017 28/04/2017 6 £150.00 £50.00
2 06/02/2017 28/04/2017 6 £300.00 £143.29
3 14/02/2017 28/04/2017 6 £150.00 £187.32
4 17/02/2017 28/04/2017 6 £350.00 £303.99
5 03/07/2017 26/09/2017 6 £300.00 £96.37
6 13/07/2017 26/09/2017 6 £300.00 £186.32
7 17/07/2017 Write off 6 £200.00 £244.14
Loans 2, 3, 4 and loans  6 and 7 were  all overlapping loans which increased the highest 
repayments.
Mr E said he had a number of loans  in a short period of time and sometimes he was 
borrowing after already  obtaining credit a few days before, putting him in extreme financial  
difficulties. As time went by, he told us he was obtaining more  credit from Sunny and other 
creditors and at one point he had 6 loans  outstanding at the same  time with Sunny.
In its final response,  Sunny said it would not uphold Mr Es complaint as it had carried  out 
eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks before making a decision as to whether 
to provide a loan. It said that its records showed  Mr E was not repaying the loan and then 
immediately re-applying  for new credit and it had also determined that Mr E was not part of a 
debt management  plan or an IVA. It believed the loans  were provided responsibly.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Es complaint and thought loan 4 onwards shouldnt have been  
given. He said the combined payments for loan 4 meant a significant  proportion of Mr Es 
income was being  paid to Sunny and in the circumstances  Mr E wouldnt have been  able to 
sustainably meet his repayments for this and any subsequent loans. And he said by loan 6 
the overall pattern of lending showed  loans 6 and 7 were unsustainable.
Sunny disagreed with this view. It said that for loans 5 to 7 which ran concurrently Mr Es net 
disposable income was sufficient to meet the combined monthly  repayment  of the loans and 
said all loans  were settled, some  being  repaid early which  did not appear consistent with 
Mr E being  in financial difficulty at the time.  Further it told us that there was a gap in 
borrowing between the settlement of loan 4 and the commencement of loan 5. It did not 
agree that Mr E had become persistently reliant  on short  term lending.  It did however say 
there was a write off of a total outstanding balance of £261.36 across three loans on 26 
September 2017. Mr E did not agree.
As the parties are not in agreement the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN19416032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr E could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Having  done  so, Ive decided  to uphold  
loans 4 onwards.  I will explain why.
Sunny says it asked  Mr E for his income,  expenditure, outstanding  short-term  lending 
commitments as well as the credit reference  agency information and I think the checks it did 
before agreeing to provide Mr E loans 1-3 were sufficient and proportionate considering this 
was in the early  stages  of its relationship with Mr E. I dont think  these checks  would have  
Ref: DRN19416033led Sunny  to believe these particular loans  were unaffordable compared  with Mr Es 
declared income. So I cant say Sunny did anything wrong when lending Mr E loans 1-3.
After loan 3, Mr E took out loan 4 only 3 days later and at that time he still had loans 1, 2 and 
3 outstanding.
Loan 4 was for £350. This was a larger sum than the previous loans Mr E had taken. Mr Es 
debt had increased substantially since taking loan 1. As the other loans were still 
outstanding the monthly  repayments had also increased.  This is reflected in the fact that the 
monthly repayments for loan 4 were over six times  Mr Es first loan repayment. And based 
on Sunnys own information  and the information  which Mr E had provided,  it would have 
realised that Mr E still had all his previous three loans  outstanding  at the same time. Mr Es 
contractual repayments for loan 4 took up quite a large amount of his income as he still had 
his three  previous loans outstanding. 
Whilst with hindsight, Mr E didnt borrow loan 5 until a few months  after he had re-paid loan 
4, at the time Sunny gave Mr E loan 4, I think it should have been  alert to the fact that Mr E  
might not be able to sustainably  meet  his monthly repayments for this loan and there was a 
risk that Mr E would have  no choice but to borrow his next loan again to fill the hole in his 
finances. 
Ive also explained  above that even if a loan may appear affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings.
Taking everything into account  and on Sunnys own information that Mr E still had 
outstanding loans which hadnt been repaid, I dont think  it was reasonable for it to conclude  
that Mr E was going to be able to sustainably  repay  loan 4 or loan 5. So Im upholding Mr Es 
complaint about  loans  4 and loan 5.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr E, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Es case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have realised Mr E was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr E had taken out 6 loans within 6 months and Mr E had been indebted to 
Sunny for all that time save  for a gap between  loans 4 and 5. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr E was having to borrow further  to cover the hole 
repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Es indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN19416034Mr Es first loan was for £150  and loan 6 was for £300. So, the amount he was 
borrowing had doubled in around six months  and it wasnt  reducing.  So, it doesnt seem  
likely that Mr Es need for cash was reducing which  also points to him having a longer 
term need for funds.  At this point  Sunny  ought  to have  known that Mr E was not likely 
borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall  in his income  but to meet an ongoing need. 
Loan 6 was given  within 10 days of being  provided with loan 5 and loan 7 was given 
within four days of loan 6 and whilst  the loans 5, 6 were still outstanding. So, the quick  
succession of Mr Es borrowing might indicate  that these loans were not being used in 
the way they were  intended.
Mr E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 7 was taken 
out around 6 months after Mr Es first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr E had paid 
large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr E lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Es indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans  and the length of time over which Mr E borrowed was likely to have 
had negative  implications on Mr Es ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
Sunny has said that some  of the loans  were repaid early but this isnt necessarily an 
indication about  what might happen  later. I can see Mr E still had outstanding loans at the 
point he took out loans  2, 3 and 4 and when he took out loans  6 and 7. I think Sunny should 
have taken these  outstanding loans  into account  when assessing  the affordability  of the 
further loans it was providing. And just because  he might  have  repaid  some of the loans 
early doesnt  mean he did so from sustainable  sources. If hed had to borrow from elsewhere 
in order to meet his repayments which could be more likely looking at the circumstances of 
this case, then I dont  think  that was sustainable.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and loans 5 and loan 6 and loan 7 and 
Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr E loans 4,5, 6 and 7.
Sunny has told us that it has written off some  of the balance of loan 7 and thought  about  this 
when thinking  about what it needs to do to put things right. But what I would add, is that 
based on the transaction information it has provided, it would appear that Mr E had already  
paid enough  to have repaid the principal  before the write off occurred. 
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mr E towards interest, 
fees and charges  for loans 4-6.
Ref: DRN19416035B)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by Mr E 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr E originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)For loan 7, Sunny should rework  the loan and treat any repayments  made  by Mr E as 
though they had been repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr E having made 
overpayments then Sunny  should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled.  Sunny  should then refund the amounts calculated 
in A and B and move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal 
Sunny has already  written-off. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be 
paid to Mr E. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  then Sunny should  try to 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr E. Sunny shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation 
to loan 4 and loan 5. The overall pattern of Mr Es borrowing for loan 6 and loan 7 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove  
these loans entirely from Mr Es credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny should  give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has deducted, if Mr E asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Es complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1941603