K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
background
During December  2018,  several  disputed transactions  occurred on Mr Hs account.   All 
payments were made  to G  an online gambling  site.  In total, just over £5500 was spent.
Mr H contacted Halifax on 31st December 2018 to complain about  these.  He said he had not 
made them and had not provided anyone with his authority to make them.   Initially, Halifax  
refunded the money back into Mr Hs account  but following its investigation, the money  
was re-debited.
Halifax had been  in touch with G and it had confirmed someone with Mr Hs details  
including his address, date of birth and email  address  had opened an account  with it.  G 
also provided a mobile number it held for the account holder  it was one Mr H had 
previously registered  with Halifax.
On this basis, Halifax rejected Mr Hs complaint, so he came  to this service.
He told us he hadnt opened the account with G  and he couldnt have made these 
transactions because  on 19th December,  he had been on a long-haul  flight.  
But our investigator didnt think he could ask Halifax to do anymore.  He thought Mr H had 
made these  transactions himself  so the matter  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
Generally speaking, authorisation requires Halifax to show that these  transactions  were 
authenticated as well as consented to  and I remind  myself  that its not for Mr H to prove he 
did not authorise them but for Halifax to show that he did.
In this particular  case, I am satisfied from the evidence  I have  seen that the payments were 
authenticated.  By this I mean, Mr Hs correct  card details were entered for these 
transactions to have  been made.
But Mr H says he lives alone and has always had his card in his possession.  No  one else 
had had access to it.  So, I have taken this into account when I go on to consider whether he 
consented to the payments.
I think the starting point  here is to look at who the payments were made to  and how they 
were made possible.
When this service contacted G, it told us about the online account  but also that Mr H held 
an account with its retail operations.  By this, it means, Mr H had been using its services in 
its outlets too.  The  same bank account  details were registered with G for the retail  account.
Ref: DRN10165832So, Mr H has a relationship with G and one which I dont think  he fully disclosed to either 
Halifax or this service.  I have also thought carefully about whether this is relevant in making 
a finding on consent and I think that it is.  Because I think, on balance,  it suggests it was Mr 
H who set up the account with G.
In Mr Hs submissions  he states that the use of an old phone  number on the account should  
be approached  with caution  and is evidence that a third party set this account  up. Im afraid I 
dont agree with Mr H.  I have not placed much  weight on the use of an old phone  number.
So, having  decided Mr H set the online account  up, Im satisfied that he then went  on to 
carry out the transactions which he now disputes.   As he said, he lives alone, the card was 
always in his possession  and he continued to make transactions which he doesnt dispute  
throughout this same  period.   I also remind  myself that subsequent payments have been 
made to G which he has not disputed.
I know Mr H makes relies  quite heavily on two aspects which he says show these 
transactions were  not him.  The  first is that there is a discrepancy as to the IP address for 
when the account was set up and the second is that he has shown us a flight  ticket 
suggesting he was on a long-haul flight on 19th December.
The IP address  for the account opening with G suggested the person opening the account  
was not at or near Mr Hs address.  Subsequent searches  for the same  IP address, using a 
different search  engine,  suggested the person  was in fact closer to his home address.
Ive thought about how much weight to place on this piece of evidence   and have decided 
very little.  A search for an IP address carried out by the general public is not always  
accurate or consistent.
In relation to Mr H being on a flight,  I think it is more  likely than not that the airline offered on-
board wifi  and this would have allowed Mr H the opportunity to continue to use his account 
with G.  Im  afraid I dont  think this is conclusive evidence, as Mr H suggests, that he did not 
carry out these transactions.
So, based  on everything I have seen and heard,  I think  Mr H authorised these transactions 
and so I wont be asking  Halifax  to refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1016583