K820x#14complaint
Mr I isnt happy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor  insurance 
policy. To resolve the matter, he wants the cancellation to be removed.
background
Mr I took out a motor  insurance policy with Admiral. He was later involved in a non-fault 
accident, which he reported to Admiral  although  he decided not to follow through  with an 
insurance claim. Admiral  asked Mr I to provide some further documentation so that it could 
validate the information it held. Mr I said he was extremely  busy  at the time dealing  with 
various parties following the accident.  So he missed the deadline  Admiral  had set to provide 
the documentation. So Admiral decided to cancel his policy.
Mr I had provided some of the documentation  the night before the policy  was cancelled. But 
this made  no difference as he didnt provide everything that hed been asked to. Mr I 
believes that Admirals  actions were unreasonable. He also feels  they should have called 
him before cancelling this insurance.  
An investigator looked at this complaint and felt that Admiral had acted correctly. He did note 
that Admiral had refunded the cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill. But he didnt feel 
they should do any more. Mr I didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint  has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral wrote to and emailed Mr I twice asking  for information relating to his address, 
identity and driving licence. This was because it was concerned  there may have been some  
discrepancies in the information Mr I provided when  he applied  for the policy. The second 
letter was sent as a reminder as Admiral hadnt received a response.  It explained that if Mr I 
didnt provide the requested information  within seven days his policy  would be cancelled. So 
it was made  clear to Mr I what information was required  and what  would happen if he didnt 
provide it.
Its important that Admiral has correct information on file for the person they insure.  This is 
because any incorrect information  could mean  Mr Is premiums increase, the amount he can 
make a claim for is limited, or his policy  is voided.  This is explained in the terms and 
conditions. So I think Admiral was being  proactive in reaching out to Mr I to clarify if there 
were any inconsistencies  in the information he provided.
Ive looked to see what the terms and conditions say about  Admirals right to cancel the 
policy. These say that if Mr I doesnt respond  to Admirals written request  for information or 
documentation, it is entitled to cancel the policy providing seven days  notice. Admiral did 
this in its second letter and email. 
I can appreciate that Mr I has said he was very busy at the time Admiral  wrote to him. But 
given that Admiral wrote to him twice  and also sent two emails as well, its done what Id 
expect them to do.
Ref: DRN15547482Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr I knowingly provided incorrect  information when he 
applied for his policy. Hes explained  to our investigator why he put the responses that he did 
when he was asked  questions. But if Admiral  was concerned that there were some 
discrepancies, it was in both parties interest  to get the information  checked. 
Ive noted that Mr I did provide some of the requested documents  before the deadline 
expired. But he didnt provide all of them. So Admiral was entitled  to cancel the policy.  Ive 
also noted that Mr I doesnt  want any internal or external record  of the cancellation. As 
Adniral cancelled the policy fairly,  its right that Admiral treats it as such. But there isnt a 
database where this is recorded. However, in applying  for future insurance  Mr I might  be 
asked if a previous  policy has been  cancelled.
Im sorry  to hear of the impact the cancellation of the policy  has had on Mr I. But as Admiral 
has acted correctly and fairly in cancelling the policy I wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, its my decision that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1554748