K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the interest rate she was given  when  she took out a loan with              
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank  (Marks & Spencer). She 
thinks its too high and doesnt  reflect her good  credit score.
background
In August  2018  Mrs H applied for a personal  loan with Marks and Spencer. Shed been 
attracted to its offer of loans from 2.8%  and thought that  as she had an excellent credit 
score, she would get a rate close to that. Mrs H was accepted for a loan but was offered  
and accepted  a rate of 5.8%.
She complained, asking  for an explanation as to why she was offered the higher rate.      
Marks and Spencer  said it couldnt give an exact  reason as the outcome was decided  by its 
automated systems but explained  some  of the factors that might affect its decision. 
Mrs H thought the rate was too high and said shed been forced to accept it because the 
credit search that had been undertaken would have  affected her chances  of a loan 
elsewhere. She wants Marks and Spencer  to offer her a lower  rate.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there were any number of factors which would decide the interest  rate and these would form 
part of a commercial  lending decision by Marks and Spencer which  we wouldnt expect  it to 
share. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said such a commercial decision had impacted her financial 
situation and she wanted a fuller  investigation  and a proper  explanation for why shed been 
offered a higher interest rate.
As no resolution could  be found the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
I note Mrs H has since sent in a copy of letter she received which relates  to her credit card 
account with Marks & Spencer. If Mrs H has new points  relating to her credit  card she should 
contact Marks & Spencer directly. She can refer a new complaint to us if Marks & Spencer 
doesnt resolve the issue to her satisfaction. But for clarity I should explain this decision 
solely relates to the interest rate she was offered on her loan account      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs H feels strongly about the interest  rate she was offered on her loan. And I can 
understand her frustration  at being offered a rate higher than she expected to receive. But I 
dont think Marks and Spencer has done  anything  wrong here  which  I know  will disappoint 
Mrs H  so Ill explain  why.
Mrs H thinks she should have got a rate close to the 2.8% that was being offered as her 
credit score was very good. But I havent  seen  any evidence that Marks and Spencer 
guaranteed her any specific  rate. Ive seen screenshots of the online application Mrs H 
would have completed. Under credit  and interest  rates it stated credit is subject to status. 
Ref: DRN13745072Customers who do not meet our normal criteria  may be offered a different APR to our 
standard rates. The amount and term you request will also impact  the rate offered. So I 
think Marks and Spencer made it clear  the rate offered would be subject to its credit scoring 
process and I dont think it raised  expectations  that Mrs H would automatically get the 
headline rate. So I dont  think  Marks and Spencer  did anything wrong here. 
Ive seen the personal loan agreement which indicated the repayments, term of the loan and 
fixed interest rate. This agreement was tailored  to Mrs Hs personal situation. The rate 
offered was 5.8% and the agreement confirmed the right to cancel the loan within 14 days. 
So I cant say that Marks and Spencer  wasnt clear  about what  was available  to Mrs H, 
based on her own personal circumstances. The offer was optional   Mrs H could have  
decided not to sign and return the forms on these terms.  I recognise that Mrs H said she felt 
she couldnt turn it down  at that stage.  But that was her personal assessment, based  on 
what she thought  the impact  of a search might be on her credit record.  There  wasnt  any 
actual obligation  to take up Marks and Spencers  offer and theres no evidence  to suggest an 
application with another lender would have automatically been compromised by                     
Marks and Spencers  credit search. 
Mrs H says her credit  score is excellent. She thinks this would have translated into qualifying 
for the lowest rate Marks and Spencer advertised. And theres no dispute  about that rate 
being available.  But lenders are not obliged to accept an application.  They have different 
lending policies and scoring systems and so applications to them  may be assessed 
differently. This means that one lender might accept an application at the best rate available 
and another may not. These, often automated processes,  are commercially sensitive and I 
wouldnt expect Marks and Spencer to be able to give full details of how they work. But I can 
see that it says that the amount and term of the loan could affect the interest rate offered and 
that a customers personal circumstances  not just their credit rating can affect the rate 
offered. 
But I would expect it to give Mrs H any information  it can to reasonably explain its decision. 
And I think it did by suggesting that Mrs Hs relatively short  time with her employer and the 
time at her current address may have affected the rate, although it couldnt guarantee that 
was the case.  So I cant safely say Marks and Spencer acted unfairly by following its credit 
scoring process and offering the rate it did to Mrs H. 
This service doesnt interfere with a lenders commercial business decisions, so I cant say 
whether or not 5.8% was the right interest rate for Mrs Hs credit  record,  loan purpose and 
personal circumstances. But Marks and Spencer is entitled to choose  who to lend to and at 
what rate of interest. I dont think it guaranteed Mrs H that she would get 2.8% because it 
made it clear  that the rate would vary according  to an individuals situation  and Mrs H did 
have an option  not to take up the loan at the rate Marks  and Spencer was willing  to offer.  So 
I think it acted fairly and shouldnt have to offer Mrs H a better  rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc trading  as M&S Bank.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN13745073ombudsman
Ref: DRN1374507