K820x#14complaint
Mr E says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2006. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Mr E applied for a Mint credit  card. It gave  him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Es representative says Mr E was led to believe he had to take out PPI. But on the 
credit agreement  PPI was listed in a separate section labelled Optional Insurance 
and Mr E signed separately to confirm he wanted  it. I havent found any wording that 
could reasonably have led Mr E to believe he had to buy it. He says he wasnt told 
about alternative policies but RBS didnt have to do that. I think  RBS made  it clear  to 
Mr E that he had a choice about  PPI and he agreed to take it out.  
Mr Es representative says the PPI wasnt suitable for Mr E. But RBS didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for him. It was 
up to Mr E to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing in mind  his ability to 
make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr E all the information about the PPI that he needed 
before he made his decision. But Mr E chose  to take out the policy  and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  
Mr E told us he was entitled to six weeks full pay and six weeks half pay if he was 
sick but the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 
months. He said he had savings worth  at least six months salary but the PPI would 
have allowed him to use these for other  living expenses whilst not working,  or to keep 
them intact for future needs. He also said he had life and critical illness cover, but 
these cover different  events and wouldnt help with monthly credit card repayments in 
the same  way as PPI. 
Mr E told us he already  had income protection. But from what  hes said I cant  
conclude this meant he didnt need PPI. I say this as the provider he says it was with 
Ref: DRN14659072mainly sells card protection  insurance  (so cover against loss or theft),  not income 
protection. So I dont  think  it would have  been  the same kind of insurance.  And he 
hasnt been able to tell us much about  the circumstances  in which  he could have 
claimed under it. Overall, based  on what I know about his circumstances  and the 
terms of the PPI policy, I cant fairly conclude Mr E wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr E, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr E any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1465907