K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2004 Mr B took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same  time, he took out PPI as part of a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The plan included a PPI element, which included 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment. It also included  life cover  and critical illness 
cover. Ive only considered the PPI element of the plan here. Mr B paid a monthly premium 
for the TMPP. The PPI element of the plan would have covered his monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs told us that Halifaxs mortgage adviser told him that PPI was more or less part 
and parcel of the mortgage, and was something  he should buy. Halifax  no longer has all 
the paperwork from the sale. I dont think this is surprising, as it took place so long ago. 
But Ive seen the Key Facts document that was sent to Mr B a few weeks before the 
mortgage started.  It included a section on insurance.  It said that Mr B needed  to take out 
buildings insurance as a condition of the mortgage. But it said that Mr B didnt have to 
take out any insurance through Halifax.
There was a separate box within the insurance section, clearly headed Optional 
insurance in bold. It listed four items, each with the monthly  payment itemised beside it. 
Those were  contents insurance,  and the three  different elements of the TMPP. The first 
of those was PPI. It was referred to as TMPP Mortgage Repayments Cover, and it 
explained that it provided cover in the event of accident,  sickness  or unemployment. 
I cant know what the adviser said to Mr B at the time. And I dont doubt  that hes given 
us his honest recollection. But based on what we know  about the way Halifax sold these 
policies at that time - and from what Ive seen  - Im satisfied,  on balance, that Halifax  
made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B. That means it had a responsibility to check that 
the policy was right for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  Ive 
seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN18393992Ive borne in mind  that Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from his employer  at the time if hed been off sick. And 
he says hed have  been entitled to a generous redundancy package. But if hed made  a 
successful claim  on the PPI element of the TMPP, it would have  covered his monthly 
mortgage payments  of just under £300  for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats 
longer than Mr B would  have  received full pay from his employer for. Whats more,  it 
would have paid out in addition  to the payments Mr B received from his employer, 
allowing him to use those to meet other day-to-day living  expenses. And he wouldnt 
have had to use his savings to make  his mortgage payments. So I think the policy could 
have provided  him with a valuable benefit.
The cost of the policy was shown on the Key Facts document  that Ive referred to above.  
The premium for the PPI element was shown as £17.28 per month. So I think Mr B 
would have understood how much  hed need to pay for it. As Ive said above, the PPI 
and the other elements of the TMPP were clearly shown as optional  on the key facts  
document. So if Mr B didnt want to take the cover  after all, I think its likely that hed 
have contacted Halifax and asked it not to go ahead with the cover.  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he did so. In the event, Halifaxs records  show  that the premium  that Mr B 
was charged for the PPI element of the TMPP was £17.04  slightly less than shown on 
the key facts document. 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover   for example, 
unusual working  arrangements  or existing medical  conditions. But from what hes told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  its unlikely  Mr B would  have been  affected by any 
of these.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  including what  hes said about the fact that he was 
paying considerably more  than £17 for the policy until he cancelled it in 2017.  But the £17 
was purely for the PPI element of the TMPP, which, as Ive mentioned,  also included life 
cover and critical illness cover. The premium  for the PPI cover  wouldnt have been taken as 
a separate payment, but would have been  included in a single monthly  payment,  covering all 
elements of the TMPP. With the life cover  and critical illness parts of the TMPP, the total 
monthly premium for the plan came  to £30.46 at the start of the mortgage. It looks  as if the 
payment for the plan increased because Mr Bs monthly mortgage payments increased.  
Mr Bs also told us, following the adjudicators view, that his understanding  is that the TMPP 
was insurance against  not being able to pay his mortgage, and that effectively the PPI was 
insurance for that insurance. He says no sensible person would take out insurance for 
insurance. But the PPI wasnt  insurance  for insurance. It was insurance  to cover Mr Bs 
monthly mortgage payments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job. The life cover and critical 
illness cover  would have  paid a lump sum if Mr B had died or been diagnosed  with one of a 
number of specified serious illnesses. They were different types of cover  from the PPI, and 
would have paid out in different situations. So these additional points dont change  my 
conclusion.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B, but Im not persuaded that Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN18393993my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1839399