K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are directors of a limited company, which  I will refer to as H. Mr and Mrs M
complain on behalf  of H that the company that provide  their shopkeepers insurance policy,
avoided it  cancelled  as if it never  existed   after the broker,  Rk Henshall & Co Ltd (RKH),
failed to pass on accurate  information  to the insurer.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a shopkeepers insurance  policy for H provided by an insurance company
which I will refer to as Company A. The policy was sold to them by the broker,  RKH.
In April 2018 there was an electrical fire at the shop and Mr and Mrs M made a claim on the
policy. During the assessment of the claim,  Company  A found firearms and ammunition at
the shop. They said they werent advised  that the shop held these items on the premises.
And they wouldnt have offered cover under the policy if they had known that these items
were stocked. They therefore avoided the policy.
Mr and Mrs M said they had made  it clear  to RKH that they hold firearms and ammunition at
the premises during  phone  calls with its agent.  They said RKH must not have passed this
information on to Company  A. Mr and Mrs M made a complaint  to RKH.
RKH didnt  uphold the complaint. It said its staff member had asked Mr M about whether the
shop stocks firearms during a phone conversation and he had said that it didnt. So it wasnt
aware firearms were  at the premises and the information it passed Company A had been
accurate based  on what Mr and Mrs M had said.
Mr M disputed the contents of this phone call and requested the call recordings.  On receipt
of these he said there was a call missing  where the firearms were discussed directly.  He
also disputed the length of the call as it didnt match the system notes provided, so he
suspected it had been doctored. He brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was
upheld. She said that after listening to the calls, she thought RKH hadnt passed on an
accurate reflection of the information provided by Mr and Mrs M to Company  A. She said
RKH should therefore act as the insurer and review he claim under  the terms of the policy.
However she said RKH had provided evidence that the calls were the correct  length, so she
was satisfied the call recordings were not doctored.
RKH didnt  agree with our investigator. It said Mr and Mrs M had purposefully  mislead its
agent in order  to secure a lower insurance premium. It said Mr M was very clear when asked
on the phone if H stocked any firearms that there were no firearms on the premises at all.
RKH asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the redress our investigator suggested. They  said they
wouldnt feel comfortable with a loss adjustor appointed by RKH, particularly as they would
subsequently not be able to complain about them if things didnt go well. They  also asked for
their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in it I said:
RKH says that Mr and Mrs M didnt make  it clear that H stocked firearms and ammunition.  It
Ref: DRN11027022says they failed to make  a fair presentation of the risk as required under the Insurance Act
2015. It says they provided incorrect and ambiguous information when asked directly about
whether they stock  firearms in order  to purposefully mislead RKH.
In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk under the Insurance Act 2015, the act says a
commercial policyholder must disclose relevant information about  the risk in a manner which
would be reasonably clear and accessible to a prudent  insurer. The Act goes on to say:
(4)The disclosure required  is as follows, except as provided in subsection (5)
(a)disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows  or ought to know, or
(b)failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent
insurer on notice that it needs to make  further  enquiries for the purpose  of revealing those
material circumstances.
As RKH were acting as a broker between Mr and Mrs M and Company A, I need  to decide
whether the information provided  by Mr and Mrs M to RKH meets the definition  of a fair
presentation of risk. And whether RKH acted fairly and reasonably when selling  and
renewing the policy.
From looking  at the evidence provided,  the first mention of firearms and ammunition was at
the time the policy was due to renew  in March 2017.  Mrs M emailed RKHs agent following
her recommendation to switch to a shopkeepers policy  with Company A. Mrs M said in her
email: I am assuming that the insurance  doesn't have any restrictions for stock of firearms
and ammunition?
In response to this email  the agent  tried to call Mrs M but instead spoke to Mr M. RKH says
that it was in this phone call that Mr M failed to make  a fair presentation of the risk. I have
listened to the phone call and I agree that it wasnt completely clear  about Hs involvement
with the sale of firearms and ammunition.  In response to one of the agents  questions Mr M
answered, nothing  on the premises, no.
However he also said: We only ever process them through, people order  them  and because
weve got a fire arms dealership we can receive it and pass it on. From this statement I think
its clear that the shop  has some involvement with passing on firearms through their
premises, so may hold the items  on site.
I have also reviewed the correspondence  between  RKHs  agent and Company A after the
call. In an email from Company A to RKH  it states: Anything  to do with firearms would be
a decline for us.. and in response RKHs agent  says: That is fine. The client  has
confirmed again  they will not stock any of the goods,  they will just point  their customer in
the right direction (phew!!!!)
So although  I agree  it wasnt entirely  clear on the phone  call with Mr M the exact involvement
of H with the sales of firearms and ammunition,  I think enough information was provided to
give RKH reason  to question this further.
In the section of the Insurance Act 2015 I have quoted  above  it says the policyholder  should
provide disclosure which gives the insurer  sufficient  information to put a prudent  insurer on
notice that it needs to make further  enquiries.  In this case  Mrs M asked specifically about
cover for stocking firearms  and ammunition  an unusual question if H didnt. And Mr M
refers to dealing  with sales of these items. I think this would be enough for a prudent  person
to identify the need for further enquiries.  I therefore  think Mr and Mrs M did provide a fair
presentation of risk as required under the act.
Ref: DRN11027023I have also considered RKHs actions when processing the renewal. Rather than making
further enquiries as I would expect, RKHs agent  made an assumption about how the sales
of firearms  were managed. She said to Company A they will just point their customer  in
the right direction. This assumption was inaccurate. When this is considered alongside
Company As statement  that anything to do with firearms would be a decline, and Mr Ms
description on the phone, its clear that due care was not taken  by RKH to ensure correct
information was passed on and the policy was suitable for H. I therefore  dont think  RKH
have acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with the renewal of the policy.
RKH says that Mr M made a clear  statement on the phone that there  were  no firearms on
the premises. It says that he did this to purposefully mislead it in order  to get a lower
premium. However the fact Mrs M emailed RKH to specifically check  whether  they would be
covered under the policy shows the willingness  to be transparent  and get the right cover.
Further, although Mr M did say there  were  no firearms on the premises, this was in response
to an unclear question from RKHs agent  about stocking and selling them  from the shop. And
no further questions  were asked after this. I therefore dont think its likely  Mr and Mrs M were
trying to mislead RKH.
For these reasons I think RKH hasnt met its responsibilities under the Insurance Act. I also
think the avoidance of Hs policy by Company A was due to RKHs failure to ask sufficient
questions in order to get accurate information about the cover H needed. I am therefore
minded to require  RKH to put Mr and Mrs M back in the position they would have been in if it
hadnt treated  them  unfairly.  Our investigator recommended that RKH  acts as the insurer  
and handles a claim under  the policy. I agree with this. However Mr and Mrs M have raised
concerns about  RKH appointing a loss adjuster. I can understand these. I therefore think  it
would be more fair for RKH and Mr and Mrs M to jointly agree on a loss adjuster to assess
the claim under the policy. RKH should  then manage the claim in line with the policy terms,
without applying the firearms exclusion.  However its important to note that if Mr and Mrs M
or RKH disagree with the loss adjusters findings  they wont  be able to refer the complaint
back to us, as it isnt a regulated activity.
response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs M on behalf of H accepted the provisional decision. But they raised concerns 
about appointing a loss adjustor that both sides agree  on.
RKH responded to confirm it had received the decision. It said that if the claim were 
successful, the amount  owed would be larger than the legal award limit for this service. So 
asked for clarity about what it would be required to pay.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I believe RKH didnt take due care to ensure 
correct information  was passed  on to the insurer and therefore  why Mr and Mrss complaint 
on behalf of H should be upheld. Neither RKH or Mr and Mrs M have provided me with any 
reason to depart from this decision. 
Ref: DRN11027024However, I have considered RKH  and Mr and Mrs Ms comments about the logistics  of 
handling the potentially high value claim.  Having done so I have revised the required action 
from my provisional decision.  
Rather than requiring RKH to consider  the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, I 
think a more fair resolution  will be to require  RKH  to pay the claim based on a fair 
assessment of the loss suffered. 
I have put this revised assessment to Mr and Mrs M. They have provided  detailed 
calculations of the loss. They have valued  this at £470,000  in total. This includes reasonable 
estimates of stock held,  trade goods,  loss of business and the intended sale of the business  
as part of their business  plan. 
I have provided my revised  findings and the above figures  to RKH for its comments. It 
responded to confirm  it had received the figures but didnt comment on whether it accepted  
the revised decision. 
Based on the comments received, and the detailed stock list and business plan provided  by 
Mr and Mrs M, I think it would be more  suitable  to require RKH to pay the claim as outlined 
above.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000 plus any interest  and/or costs/ interest on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
In this case I think that fair compensation is £470,000 based on the breakdown provided by 
Mr and Mrs M. Therefore my decision is that RKH  should pay H £150,000. On top of this I 
will require it to pay 8% interest  simple per year from the date the claim was made until the 
claim is settled,  to make up for the time H has been without the money.  However as I think 
fair compensation is above our award  limit, I recommend  RKH  pays H the balance as well.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint on behalf of H. I think  that fair 
compensation is £470,000. My decision is that I require  Rk Henshall & Co Ltd to pay H 
£150,000, plus 8% interest  simple per year from the date the claim was made until the claim 
is settled.
I think fair compensation  is more than £150,000 so I recommend that Rk Henshall & Co Ltd 
pays H the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Rk Henshall & Co Ltd 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that H can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. H may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M and Mrs M on 
behalf of H to accept  or reject my decision before  27 April 2020.
Ref: DRN11027025Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1102702