K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about Sainsburys Bank  Plcs procedures and its customer  service  after he 
phoned it to cancel his credit  card.
background 
On 28 November 2018 Mr F left his credit card in the reader of a supermarket till. He 
retrieved it within an hour but decided to cancel it and request a new one in case the details 
had been compromised.  Sainsburys  Bank wasnt particularly helpful  when he phoned it the 
same day. And it didnt  tell him his new card couldnt  be used until he had reset his security 
details. It sent him a letter with his new card which said sign  it and you are good  to go 
when in fact the card was suspended. It gave him a poor service  when he phoned it again on 
6 December 2018. 
Sainsbury Bank reviewed Mr Fs complaint after this Service was involved and decided it 
hadnt provided Mr F with a fair outcome. It could see that when Mr F phoned it on 28 
November 2018  he initially passed  its security process and it ordered  him a replacement  
card, But Mr F then discovered  his card was a contactless one which he didnt want. He 
asked for the replacement  card to be non contactless but the person he was speaking to 
took him through a higher  security process which he then failed. Sainsburys Bank  said the 
staff member shouldve used his discretion not to require a higher level of security.  So in 
light of all the circumstances  it offered Mr F £100  compensation  for the upset and 
inconvenience itd caused.
Our investigator could  understand  Mr Fs frustration when he was asked to provide 
additional security  questions which he couldnt immediately answer.  And she agreed that the 
customer service  during his second  phone call couldve been better. But she thought 
Sainsburys offer of £100 was fair and reasonable.
Mr F didnt  agree. He wanted Sainsburys Bank  to retrain its staff, rewrite some of its 
standard correspondence, agree security  questions and answers in the future, give 
complainants an email facility and to make its information about contactless and non 
contactless cards clearer. He also wanted  Sainsburys to apologise  for the embarrassment  
caused when  he tried to use his credit card for a large purchase and it was declined, and to 
apologise for the poor quality telephone conversations and letters.  And he didnt think the 
compensation Sainsburys Bank had offered was any incentive to improve its level of 
service.
Our investigator explained that as we are not the regulator we cant  tell a bank to change its 
policies, literature or the way it operates. Mr F looked at the website of the regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and said the investigator was wrong when she said this 
Service couldnt give him the resolution  he wanted. And he said to be offered £100 is not 
evidence of an apology.  He said he suffered considerable embarrassment when his credit 
card was refused  and so, having  looked  at this Services website about our awards, he 
thought Sainsburys  Bank should pay him more  than £250.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons
Ref: DRN15187782Mr F wants this Service to tell Sainsburys Bank  to amend a number of its procedures  
including some of its standard letters. Our investigator was correct when she told Mr F we 
couldnt do that. As she explained, our role is limited. We try to sort out individual complaints  
between consumers and financial institutions  where the consumer thinks he or she has lost 
out. We cant comment on processes which apply to all its customers. Thats the role of the 
regulator, the FCA. I cant comment on the contents  of the FCA website.  If Mr F has an issue 
with that he must contact  it direct. All I can say is that under our rules  we cant tell 
Sainsburys Bank to change its policies or procedures.
I can see Mr F wouldve been concerned when he left his card in a shop.  And I can 
understand how frustrated  he was to have been asked additional  security  questions.  But 
Sainsburys Bank has acknowledged that and offered him £100  which  I think is fair and 
reasonable.  
Our awards  are assessed on the impact on a consumer of a banks  error.  Mr F phoned 
Sainsburys Bank at the end of November 2018.  The member of staff he spoke to shouldve 
told him the replacement  card wouldnt work  until hed updated his security details. He 
phoned on 6 December to say the replacement card didnt work that afternoon.  I can 
understand that he was embarrassed by the situation. But he was able to complete the 
transaction by other means. And Sainsburys Bank apologised to him on the phone  for the 
inconvenience this had caused. The operator  said she would order a new card for him. She 
confirmed shed updated his security details  and told him that he could continue to use his 
replacement contactless  card until he received the new non contactless  one. 
I know Mr F wont agree with me but taking  all of that into account  I think the inconvenience 
and upset he was caused should not reasonably have had more  than a minor impact on him 
and on that basis  Im satisfied £100  compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. .
my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right Sainsburys Bank Plc should  pay Mr F £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  its caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1518778