K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr T payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that 
happened so many years ago when the application  was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland failed to make  Mrs and Mr T 
aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that they freely chose to take it. Without 
stronger evidence, it wouldnt  be fair for me to say that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly in 
that way.
Bank of Scotland probably  recommended  the PPI to Mrs and Mr T, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Mrs and Mr T 
say theyve had savings and share investments for many years, some of them starting from 
before this PPI started.  They say that Bank of Scotland didnt take this into account  when 
advising them about the PPI, and that the PPI was not needed because of these other 
options for paying their mortgage.  
However, the records of what was taken into account, and the reasons  for recommending  
PPI, are no longer available. I dont think this is unreasonable given how many  years ago 
this all happened, and given there was no reason Bank of Scotland  would expect 
Mrs and Mr T to complain  so many years  later. Mrs and Mr T have said that their policy has 
been continuously in place, with premiums regularly taken, so Bank of Scotland  should have 
kept these records.  I dont agree that this would mean they should expect to keep the sales  
records available. As Mrs and Mr T have apparently been content to keep the policy going 
Ref: DRN14836842over so many years, Bank of Scotland wouldnt expect to need  to refer to those earlier  
documents. 
Also, even if there  were good  savings and accessible investments, it doesnt mean that a 
recommendation of PPI was unreasonable. Being unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to 
significant difficulties,  and risks of large financial losses. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mrs and Mr T received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when they would need  to fall back on any savings or to release  other 
capital assets.  This all would have put Mrs and Mr T in a more  secure  position,  if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. Mrs and Mr T have 
emphasised their prudent approach to financial matters, and taking PPI for a mortgage  could 
be regarded as prudent. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr T took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mrs and Mr T would have  been  affected by any of these. Its likely they were 
eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time 
without further  cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1483684