K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in 1994  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. Their 
recollection is that they applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy  over the phone. Lloyds has 
told us it was an in-branch sale. And from the paperwork  Ive seen that Lloyds has been able 
to give us I think this is most  likely. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ns 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £18.90 a month. 
At the time,  Mr N was employed  as a factory worker. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least three months employee sick pay if he was too unwell to work. He would also have  
received redundancy pay if he lost his job as well as death  in service benefit. Mr N said he 
had savings of around £3,000 he could have relied upon to make the mortgage repayments 
if he wasnt working. Mr N has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.
Mrs N was employed in a clerical role. She has told us she was entitled to at least  three 
months sick pay if she wasnt well enough to work. She would receive redundancy pay if she 
lost her job and was entitled to death  in service benefit. Mrs N had savings of around £3,000 
she could have used  to make the mortgage repayments if she wasnt  working. Mrs N told us 
she was in good health at the time of the sale.
As the policy was for the sole benefit  of Mr N I will mainly be considering his circumstances 
from the time of the sale in my decision. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 1994 and Mr and 
Mrs N took out further advances in 2004, 2005 and 2008. The mortgage was still running  at 
the time Mr and Mrs N brought their complaint. The PPI policy  was cancelled in 2004.  
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
Lloyds failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ns 
representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN17917902The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Lloyds should have told 
Mr and Mrs N about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Lloyds should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr and Mrs N and the 
impact they would have  had on their chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  
be most  needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the time. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on our 
website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs N arranged further  advances  on their mortgage after mortgage  lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
Ref: DRN17917903There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill  
in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN17917904-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them  to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and Mrs N, 
I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr and Mrs N suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs N say it was 
included as part of the mortgage  package.
Lloyds has been  able to give us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage application form. This 
included a separate section, section 12, entitled MortgageSure followed by some  questions 
and tick boxes for yes or no. The first question is Do you require cover  against accident, 
sickness and involuntary unemployment and even  though the copy  is a little blurred I can 
see the box has been ticked to take the PPI. There is a second question  about whether the 
applicant had been in continuous  employment which has been ticked and the amount  of the 
monthly benefit required of £300  has been  written  in by hand.  I think the form is a reflection 
of what was discussed during the meeting. And I note the policy  was for the sole benefit of 
Mr N rather than jointly  the mortgage was joint  so clearly Mr and Mrs N made a decision 
about how the policy would be of most benefit  to them. Mr Ns earnings were a lot higher 
than Mrs Ns, so it seems  likely, that following a discussion with the Lloyds representative,  
this was the reason for the choice of benefit being  for Mr N only.  
And Lloyds  has given us a copy  of the mortgage  offer letter which  would have been sent to 
Mr and Mrs N after their application. On the offer it confirms MortgageSure was taken and 
the monthly cost and benefit. If Mr and Mrs N hadnt  wanted the policy, I would have 
expected them to have queried  its inclusion. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs N knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it did provide  advice  during this sale. Mr and Mrs N disagree. Looking  at what 
happened when  Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs N the PPI, the information gathering  and paperwork 
weve been given,  Im persuaded that it provided  advice.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN17917905the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs N. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ns financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application, what  they owed and their earnings.  But 
there is no specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr N would 
be caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might  have meant  the policy did 
not fully meet Mr and Mrs Ns needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds 
considered whether Mr N had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr N met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs N had a need for the policy  Mr N was the higher wage earner  and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Ns finances  would be put under strain if he was not working  
even allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits he was entitled  to and    Mrs Ns 
income. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs N manage the consequences were  
Mr N unable to work.
-Although Mr and Mrs N says they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly  cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs N. There 
was nothing  about Mr Ns employment  or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for him to claim.  And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
-While  there were limits  to the cover provided by the policy (including: the requirement 
that Mr N be disabled  for 30 days or unemployed for 60 days  before he could make  a 
claim and the fact the policy  would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for 
each claim), the policy still provided valuable cover  given:
Mr Ns circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 30-day 
and 60-day qualification periods) and the limits  to those  provisions, which mean 
the policy  could  play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their home and 
the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs N be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against  their house.
Ref: DRN17917906Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr N was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs N 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient information  
about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs N, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Ns. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
Ref: DRN17917907what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent did     
Mr and Mrs N suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to                  
Mr and Mrs N. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs N suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs N would have still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs N have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs N would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs N say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs N had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event      
Mr N was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs N were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear  they had chosen the amount of benefit on their mortgage  application and 
the cost and benefit was clear on the mortgage  offer. But the information  about other aspects  
of the policy, such  as limitations and exclusions werent as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs N applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs N would 
have been told the cost before the policy started as it was included in the mortgage offer 
letter and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN17917908Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs N would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability which  happened  during the 12 
months before the start date of the policy and for which Mr N had consulted  or received 
treatment from a medical practitioner;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr N wasnt  
a permanent  employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mr N be totally unable  work;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs N pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy wasnt  
as good as they thought,  and they might have  decided  not to proceed. The limitations  on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr N was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr N wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr N didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs N might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs N from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs N, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
To make a disability claim, Mr N needed  to be totally unable to work. I dont think  this is likely  
to be too different to what they would  have expected to make a claim. After all, the mortgage  
application form says,  Do you require cover against  accident, sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely they would  have thought theyd been able to make a 
successful claim  if Mr N was still working.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs N that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
Ref: DRN17917909but 12 months was a longer period than Mr N would have received full sick pay for, and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs N would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr N be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Ns sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use. And 
his savings could  have remained intact. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs N would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mr N was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs N would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs N found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  out 
Ref: DRN179179010the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs N think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1994  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs N and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1791790