K820x#14complaint
A, a small business, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim  made on its 
commercial motor insurance policy. It wants it to pay the claim. A is represented in this 
matter by Mr B, its owner. 
background
Mr B notified  his broker that his tractors gearbox  had seized  up and he wanted  to make a 
claim for its repair.  He said his repairing garage had found a foreign object in the gearbox 
and this had caused damage. AXA reviewed the evidence for this and had an independent 
engineer inspect the damaged parts. It concluded that the damage was due to mechanical  
failure and not covered by the policy. Mr B was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
policy would cover damage caused  by a foreign object, but there  was no evidence  of 
external damage  to the gearbox  showing that an object had entered it. He thought AXA had 
reasonably investigated the claim and justified its decision that the claim wasnt  covered by 
the policy. 
Mr B replied  that he thought greater weight should  be given to the evidence  of the repairing 
garage. He didnt think AXA had explained  the origin of the foreign object he said was found  
in the gear box. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  AXA said it repudiated As claim 
because of a policy exclusion  for mechanical failure. 
I can see that in Section  1 on page  10 of the policy booklet, the policy covers internal 
damage caused by a foreign object.  There follow the exclusions for this section,  including 
that cover  wont be provided  in the case of mechanical failure.  
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
The evidence AXA had to consider was the notification of the claim,  the report  from Mr Bs 
garage, its in house engineers views  and the independent engineers report. The garage 
thought the gearbox had been  damaged  by a foreign object. AXAs engineers  said that 
wouldnt be likely as there was no point of entry into the gearbox for such  an object. They 
thought the damage was caused by mechanical failure which  had created fragments that the 
garage had identified as the foreign object. But as the repair had already been made, they 
had to rely on information and images from the repairing garage. 
Ref: DRN13414592Where there are conflicting views, as in this case, we think its best to get an independent 
engineers view. AXA did this and so I think that was fair and reasonable. The tractor had 
already been repaired  by this time and so the engineer looked at the retained  parts.  He 
concluded that the damage was due to mechanical  failure. He didnt say that the damage 
had been caused by a foreign  object. 
I can see that Mr B disagreed with this. His garage provided further comments about what it 
had found. But, as the investigator has explained,  this isnt enough to substantiate the claim. 
To counter the independent  engineers  view AXA would need conclusive evidence  from 
another independent engineer  to show that the damage wasnt  caused by mechanical  
failure. I cant see that this has been  provided.
So I think AXA reasonably  investigated and justified its decision not to pay the claim on the 
basis of a policy exclusion. So I think its acted fairly and reasonably and I dont  require it to 
pay As claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1341459