K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc wouldnt agree to their plans for 
repaying their interest only mortgage when it expired.
background
Mr and Mrs F had an interest only mortgage with RBS.  The term was due to end in 2015 and 
RBS agreed a one year extension. Mr and Mrs F entered into discussions with RBS about  
how the mortgage was ultimately  to be repaid. They wanted to reduce the capital  balance  
from around £180,000 to around £60,000.  They  wanted to convert the remainder to 
repayment terms and pay it back over ten years.
Mr and Mrs F have  explained that they had what they considered to be advantageous  
investments, consisting of shares and property. They didnt  have enough in liquid capital to 
repay the mortgage, but could do so by selling some of their investments or property. 
However, they didnt  want to do that yet firstly because doing  so would attract  capital gains 
tax, meaning it would cost them far more than simply the amount paid to RBS, and secondly 
because they wanted to retain their investments to continue  to benefit from them and the 
income they provided. 
RBS wouldnt agree to Mr and Mrs Fs proposal. It said it rejected it for two reasons; firstly 
because it didnt think an extension was necessary or appropriate, because  Mr and Mrs F 
could repay  the mortgage if they chose.  And, secondly, an extension would take them  
beyond the age of 70 which was RBSs  usual maximum age limit.
Mr and Mrs F complained. They said RBSs fact find  which focuses on their income and 
assets but not the liabilities  and expenditure  was inadequate.  As a result  it wasnt  in a 
position to judge whether or not an extension was appropriate, because it didnt have full 
information. RBS didnt reply to their proposals in a timely or coherent  fashion.  In relying on 
a maximum age limit, it may have acted in a discriminatory way in breach of the Equality Act 
because it couldnt  or wouldnt show its risk assessment had been carried  out properly. It 
had given financial advice  it or its staff werent qualified to give. It hadnt communicated  with 
them in the way theyd asked, or dealt with their complaints adequately. And it hadnt 
reduced their monthly payments after theyd paid a lump sum until asked to do so. Theyve 
since repaid the mortgage anyway.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that their complaint be upheld. So Mr and Mrs F asked 
for it to be looked at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F had previous residential mortgages  with other  lenders,  and this mortgage 
began in around 2005, later transferring to RBS. They also have buy to let mortgages on 
some of their various property investments. 
According to RBSs fact find, this mortgage  was originally taken out alongside  an 
endowment. But Mr and Mrs F were disappointed  with its performance,  cashed it in and 
invested the proceeds in property.
Ref: DRN16976582As a result, they no longer had a repayment vehicle dedicated to repaying the mortgage. 
However, they had agreed when taking it out that the capital  would be repaid in full at the 
end of the term in 2015. That was the contractual  agreement between  them  and RBS, and 
that agreement  is my starting  point for deciding whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
RBS is entitled  to expect Mr and Mrs F to repay  the money they borrowed when they agreed 
to repay  it. The rules of mortgage regulation  found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook under  the heading  MCOB  say that where a borrower isnt able to repay sums 
due, a lender  should act fairly and try to agree  a reasonable period over which the mortgage  
can be repaid. It should consider various options,  one of which  is a term extension.  
But that doesnt apply here. Mr and Mrs F werent unable to repay  their mortgage. They  had, 
according to the fact find and their correspondence,  capital  assets  several times the value of 
the mortgage balance. The issue here isnt that they couldnt repay their mortgage;  its that 
they didnt want  to. As their complaint letter to us says:
we had no difficulty in repaying  the whole of the capital amount due, but we 
would rather not be obliged to do so
Mr and Mrs F would  rather  not be obliged to pay their mortgage, since  selling assets to do so 
would entail them in a capital gains tax liability,  and would  also represent an opportunity 
cost because any funds left over couldnt be re-invested as advantageously.
Mr and Mrs F had known  for ten years that their mortgage fell due for repayment in 2015.  
Theyd chosen to use their endowment  to invest in property rather  than put towards the 
mortgage capital.  And they hadnt arranged their affairs so as to able to repay the mortgage 
in some other way without  incurring those other costs.
I dont think its unreasonable that RBS wanted  the mortgage repaid, bearing  in mind thats 
what Mr and Mrs F had originally agreed   and were contractually obliged   to do and it was 
something they could  do if they chose. There was a cost to Mr and Mrs F in doing  that  but 
equally theres a cost to RBS if it doesnt  get back the capital it lent when it was expecting  to 
do so, even if interest continues to be paid. In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair  
for RBS to refuse Mr and Mrs Fs application.
Having looked  at the correspondence and the reasons the bank gave, Im satisfied  on the 
evidence that Mr and Mrs Fs ability to pay was the principal reason  RBS declined their 
application. It did also refer to their ages, but Im satisfied this was a secondary  reason. RBS 
explained that while 70 is its usual maximum age, it does allow mortgages to go beyond that 
in certain situations,  including sometimes to allow for the repayment of an expired interest 
only mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs F have  said that RBS discriminated against them  on the grounds of their age. 
But Im not persuaded it did. As they have themselves  noted,  there  is provision for financial 
services providers to use age as a factor  in their decision making  as long as, where  theres 
a risk assessment, it is done in a compliant  way. I dont  think I need to make a finding  about 
whether RBSs policy is in breach of the Act or not, because I dont think it made any 
difference in this case. 
Ref: DRN16976583Im satisfied on the evidence that the main  reason RBS refused their application was 
because it felt Mr and Mrs F could repay  their mortgage if they chose to do so  and if they 
couldnt, it would have considered setting aside the age policy. So even if RBSs age policy 
isnt compliant with the Act  and I make no finding about that either way  Mr and Mrs F 
havent been disadvantaged by it.
As to whether  the fact find was adequate, I think that it gave RBS enough information in this 
case to decide  whether  or not it was willing to extend the term. Its not my role to review a 
banks systems, processes or paperwork generally;  its my role to consider whether it treated 
a particular complainant fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of an individual  case. 
And Im satisfied that RBS had enough information  about Mr and Mrs F and their 
circumstances to make a fair decision on their proposal.
For all the reasons Ive set out, I think RBS did give fair consideration  to Mr and Mrs Fs 
proposals. Mr F has made  criticisms of the grammar  and writing style of staff members he 
corresponded with, but I dont think theres  any doubt that he understood what RBS was 
saying to him, though I recognise  he strongly  disagreed with it. No doubt some of the 
correspondence could  have been  more  timely,  or more carefully drafted, but I dont think  that 
affected the outcome. And I dont think its complaints handling staff were  trying to give Mr F 
financial advice; they were trying to explain  why RBS had made the decision it had. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs F suffered any loss when  the direct debit wasnt initially reduced 
following an overpayment.  Whenever  an overpayment is made to a mortgage, it can be used 
in one of two ways  to reduce the monthly  payments to pay the lower  amount over the 
same contractual term, or by keeping  the monthly payments the same, to pay the mortgage 
off more quickly. As Mr and Mrs F were  by then beyond the end of their mortgage term, the 
first of those options doesnt apply, so RBS defaulted to the second  but then reduced  the 
direct debit when Mr and Mrs F asked it to.  
Overall, therefore, I think RBS has treated Mr and Mrs F fairly. It did require them  to repay 
their mortgage when they reached the end of the term and one year extension, but that was 
in all the circumstances a reasonable thing for it to have expected  them to do. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1697658