K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr B says 
Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
background 
Mr Bs mortgage began in 2002, in 2007 he took out a further advance on that mortgage  and 
it was at this time that he took out the PPI. The PPI covered Mr B for accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed,  so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done so, I dont think this policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr B says he was given no alternative  to taking out the PPI, and that it was added without 
his knowledge.  LBS says it wouldve made the optional nature of the PPI clear and sought 
his consent before adding  the PPI to his account. 
Neither LBS nor Mr B still have all the paperwork or records from the time of sale. Thats  not 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But where I have limited information  
about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely.
LBS say Mr B discussed his PPI needs firstly on the telephone, and Ive seen LBSs  note 
from that call which  suggests  that the suitability of the PPI was discussed. Ive also seen 
Mr Bs application for the further  advance  on his mortgage, which  included  a separate 
section relating to PPI. This form gave Mr B several  options for the level of cover  he wanted, 
and Mr B chose to take accident and sickness cover, but not unemployment cover. I also 
understand Mr B initially took his mortgage  in 2002  but did not take PPI at this time  so I 
think he wouldve known he didnt need  PPI to get a mortgage. 
So based  on what Ive seen, overall, I think its more  likely LBS made  it clear  that Mr B didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.  
LBS says it advised Mr B to take the PPI, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances, I think the PPI was suitable  for him. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy  but he says he was self-employed and is concerned it would 
be more difficult for him to claim for unemployment. But as Mr B didnt take the 
unemployment part of the cover, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms related 
to unemployment  cover. And he also doesnt  appear to be affected by any of the other 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.  
Ref: DRN11826632Mr B also seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mr B didnt have  any sick pay or any 
other means  he couldve used to make his repayments should he have found himself unable  
to work because of illness or injury. And this policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months if 
he was off work because  of illness or injury. So as a mortgage is a long term and significant 
commitment  and the consequence of not being able to make  repayments can be serious  
I think the PPI couldve  been useful. 
Its possible the information LBS gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like the PPI would have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means LBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But LBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
LBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because LBS didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, LBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said but his points dont change  my conclusion.  
what the business needs  to do
LBS has to pay back  to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  LBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest  he paid because of 
that. 
LBS should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. LBS should also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1182663