K822xcomplaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W applied  for a credit card in 2002.  The PPI was added to the credit  card at the same 
time and covered his repayments if he couldnt  work  due to disability or unemployment. It 
also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr W disagreed,  so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mr W that the PPI was optional and got his agreement 
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting,  Ive looked closely at all 
of the information I have  about this sale, including what  Mr Ws said about not being made 
aware the PPI had been added.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Mr W signed and dated. It included 
a clear and prominent  box to mark if he wanted  PPI and a separate box next to it for another 
insurance product  it was selling. Theres a printed cross in the PPI box, but not in the other  
box. If Halifax had generally been  adding insurance  without telling its customers I might have 
expected both to be selected.  Instead I think the application, together  with experience  of how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time, suggest there was a discussion  between  Mr W and the adviser  
about insurance. And that he chose to take PPI, knowing  it was optional.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W. This means it had to look into whether  PPI 
was right for him. I dont know if it did that. But, from what Halifax has sent me and what  
Mr Ws told me about his circumstances at the time of the sale, I think  the PPI was right for 
him in any case because:
He was eligible  for the PPI. And I dont  think he was affected by any of the main  
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
He says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer. But the main  PPI 
benefits would have paid out on top of that, and for up to 12 months per claim.  The 
PPI covered him for unemployment too. Mr W says he had savings and could have 
relied on family for help. But the PPI would have allowed him to retain  his savings or 
put them towards covering his other living costs if he wasnt working. And the PPI 
benefits, unlike family  help, were guaranteed. Overall, I think  the PPI would have 
been of use to him. 
Ref: DRN19248712Theres nothing to suggest Mr W couldnt afford  the PPI. And, if he no longer wanted 
it, the PPI was flexible  enough that he could have cancelled  it at no extra cost.
Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mr W enough  about the PPI for him to make up his own 
mind about  whether it was right for him. And it had to do this in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mr W or how well it 
was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for him, I dont think better 
information would have made  a difference to his decision  to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr W now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1924871