K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (Volkswagen) set up a Hire 
Purchase Agreement using his personal not his business details.  He would like the 
agreement transferred to his business.
background
Mr B says that in May 2017  he completed  a proposal form to get finance for a vehicle for his 
business. He says Volkswagen offered him finance so Mr B took out a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Volkswagen effective from February 2018.
Unfortunately Mr B says he realised  some months later that the agreement had been  
recorded under his personal details by mistake.  He says this affected his ability  to gain 
credit.
He says when  he raised  this with Volkswagen and asked it to transfer the agreement to his 
business it told him it couldnt as it didnt deal with partnerships  which  is what  Mr Bs 
business is  only limited companies.  And it referred his complaint  back  to the dealer who 
sold Mr B the vehicle.
Volkswagen said Mr B had time to check the agreement before he signed it. And it wasnt  
able to transfer it to Mr Bs business  as it didnt  offer finance to partnerships.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He felt Mr B had shown he had put his business 
details on the original proposal  form he completed.   He confirmed  with Volkswagen  it didnt 
offer finance  to partnerships. He recommended that Volkswagen:-
-Pay Mr B £589.10   the difference Mr B would incur in moving his finance for the 
vehicle to a different  provider.
-Pay Mr B £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
-Ensure no adverse information has been  recorded on Mr Bs credit file
Mr B accepted this view albeit he said he was disappointed with the level of compensation.
Volkswagen didnt accept our adjudicators  view.  It said the proposal form Mr B signed was 
just that  a proposal. It didnt feel it was reasonable to pay compensation if Mr B hadnt  read 
the agreement  he signed. It also stated it did offer agreements to businesses.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. He felt Mr B made it 
clear he wanted the agreement  set up for his business not for him personally. He said 
Volkswagen had specifically told him that it didnt  offer finance  to partnerships which is what  
Mr Bs business is.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18837832I dont think there is any doubt that Mr B signed  a Hire Purchase Agreement  in his name not 
in his business name. Ive seen a copy of the Agreement  that confirms  that.
Ive also seen the proposal form that Mr B completed   that clearly shows  that Mr B wanted 
finance for a car for his company. On that form Mr B gave his business VAT registration 
number along  with other business details. Both he and one of his business partners signed  
the form. So Im persuaded by that, that Mr B was looking for finance  for a vehicle for 
business use.
Volkswagen has pointed out that there was a significant time delay between the finance 
being proposed  May 2017  and going live in February 2018 which it feels gave Mr B 
sufficient time to check the details of the agreement.   That may be the case  but I am not sure 
when exactly Mr B got the agreement to sign.
Mr B said he didnt  find it surprising to see his name and personal details included  on the 
online acceptance of the finance agreement.  He said its usual practice  to have partners  
personal credit file details  checked when making  loan applications.
 
I think its unfortunate that Mr B didnt carefully  read the agreement he signed. And I agree 
with Volkswagen that he should have done  so. However Im persuaded by the details on the 
proposal form that Mr B wanted an agreement in his business name. And thats not what  he 
got.
In its initial  response Volkswagen referred  Mr B back to the dealership  he dealt with. It said 
that an error made  by the dealership wasnt its responsibility. But Volkswagen is responsible  
for the negotiations carried out on its behalf.
Mr B has considered a range of options with regard to the vehicle. He has decided  he wants  
to keep the vehicle. In its response to our adjudicators view Volkswagen said it did offer 
finance to businesses but the same respondent previously told our adjudicator  that 
Volkswagen could only transfer agreements  from private individual  to Limited  companies  not 
to business partnerships. As s Mr Bs company isnt a limited company he cant  transfer his 
agreement to a business agreement with Volkswagen.
Mr B has given  us details of a quote  from a different finance provider to take over the finance 
for the vehicle. The difference between  the two finance agreements is £589.10. I think  its 
reasonable that Volkswagen cover  this sum as I dont believe it gave Mr B the agreement he 
asked for.
I also think our adjudicators recommendation of £250 compensation is fair for the distress 
and inconvenience  to Mr B. 
In terms of Mr Bs credit file. Mr B says he had an application for credit  turned down due to 
his loan with Volkswagen. He hasnt given us any evidence of this. And its important that 
credit files are accurate.  But I think its fair for Volkswagen to ensure  no adverse information 
is recorded in relation  to Mr Bs agreement with Volkswagen.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited should:-
Ref: DRN18837833-Pay Mr B £589.10   the difference between Mr Bs current finance  agreement and 
the new proposed  one
-Pay Mr B £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
-Ensure no adverse information in relation to Mr Bs finance  agreement is recorded on 
Mr Bs credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1883783