K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mr A complain that AWP P&C SA declined Mr Ms claim and about its service.  My 
references to AWP include its agents.
background
Mr M and Mr A had joint annual multi trip travel  insurance, insured by AWP, which gave 
cover from 25 July 2017 to 24 July 2018. Mr M had declared two medical conditions when 
the policy was taken out. Mr M went abroad  in early  July 2018 and while  there he was 
admitted to hospital.  On 24 July 2018 Mr M claimed  for medical  expenses  of about £2,200. 
AWP declined the claim.  It said the claim was for treatment of the new medical  condition  
Mr M declared in June 2018 when trying to extend the policy  cover  beyond 24 July 2018. 
AWP said at that time it had told Mr M it would no longer cover his medical conditions.
Mr M and Mr A said when Mr M called to try to extend his cover AWP refused to extend but it 
hadnt told him his existing policy  cover  to 24 July 2018 was affected. AWP said it told Mr M 
in a voicemail message and subsequent call that the existing policy wouldnt provide cover 
for his medical conditions.  
Mr M and Mr A complained to us. They want the claim  paid and compensation for the poor 
way AWP dealt with them.
Our investigator recommended AWP pay the claim.  She listened to the call recordings and 
didnt think AWP had made it clear enough that it would no longer cover  Mr Ms medical 
conditions from the time he told it about  his new condition. She also said AWP should pay 
£100 for compensation for Mr M and Mr As distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr M and Mr A accepted  our investigators  recommendation.  AWP didnt respond by the 
response date we gave despite our investigator chasing for a response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  whether AWP  fairly  declined the claim and gave 
reasonable service,  I dont think it did. Ill explain  why.
Under the policy Mr M and Mr A must  tell AWP about a change  of health between  the date 
the policy is issued  and/or before  the first day of a trip in specified circumstances. The policy 
says:
We will then decide if we can provide you with cover on existing terms. We might ask 
you to pay an additional premium, add special conditions to the policy or exclude 
cover for that medical condition. If we cannot provide cover, or if you do not want to 
pay the additional premium, you can make  a cancellation claim if you have booked  
and paid for a trip that you have  not yet made.  Alternatively you can cancel your 
policy and we will send you a pro-rata refund.
Ref: DRN19688142We reserve the right not to extend the policy where the booked trip could be 
detrimental to your well being.  Failure to contact  us could leave you with no right to 
make a claim, and might mean  that you travel with insufficient cover.
In early June 2018 Mr A received  a call from AWPs medical screening service  following his 
and Mr Ms request for an extension of the policy past the expiry date of 24 July 2018. Ive 
listened to the call. In brief, Mr M provided  information about his new medical  condition,  as 
the policy required. He also discussed  the two medical conditions hed already declared. 
AWP asked if Mr M has any holidays booked and he confirmed his holiday  in July. AWP told 
Mr M the information would be passed to the underwriters to assess  whether the policy  
would be accepted for an extension. AWP didnt mention any possible effect on Mr Ms 
existing policy cover. 
In that call Mr M also told AWP  that Mr A had just had stroke.  AWP said it wouldnt consider  
Mr A for additional cover until three  months from the date of his stroke.  Mr M confirmed the 
extension of cover was just for him as they knew Mr A wasnt fit to travel.
Later that day AWP left Mr M a voicemail message. AWP says the message told Mr M that 
the underwriters werent able to offer cover for his conditions. Ive listened to the recording of 
the message and theres no reference to cover being declined  for the existing policy.
AWP sent a letter to Mr A dated 8 June 2018  which says:
Having carefully  assessed the information provided, we write  to confirm that we are 
unable to provide  an extension of cover for claims relating to medical conditions 
known to you.
The letter doesnt say whether the existing policy was affected.  I think  Mr M could  
reasonably understand from the letter that there  was no change  to his cover  provided by the 
existing policy.
A few days  later Mr A called AWPs medical screening service to find out the status  of their 
existing policy particularly  for Mr M. Ive also listened to that call. AWP told Mr A that the 
medical endorsement wasnt valid. I accept AWP may have  been  referring  to the existing  
policy but it didnt  explicitly  say so. 
AWP says in its letter to Mr M and Mr A that Mr A appeared to be frustrated in that call. 
Mr M and Mr A say it's clear on the call recording that due to his recent stroke  Mr A was 
stumbling over words  and he sounded confused. I think it was clear  he was struggling. 
I dont think AWP took into account Mr As health circumstances in that call even though it 
knew Mr A had very recently had a stroke. It should have given him very clear  information 
about such an important  issue,  and it didnt. Given the circumstances it would  have also 
been reasonable for AWP to have  followed up with a letter to Mr M clarifying that it was no 
longer covering his medical  conditions  with immediate effect.
Overall Im satisfied that Mr A and Mr M could reasonably  understand that cover for Mr M 
under the existing policy was unchanged. If AWP had been clearer Mr M no longer had 
medical cover under  his existing policy I think its more likely than not that Mr M would have 
looked for alternative insurance cover. AWP hasnt said its unlikely he would have got 
alternative insurance. But if he couldnt have  got an alternative I think its probable  he would 
have cancelled the holiday,  made a cancellation claim as the policy provides and the 
Ref: DRN19688143medical expenses  wouldnt have been  incurred.  I think AWPs lack of clarity  prejudiced  
Mr M.
The fair and reasonable outcome is for AWP to pay the claim subject to the policy limit and 
the excess. If Mr M has already paid the expenses it must add interest  as Ive detailed 
below.
Mr M and Mr A raised several issues about  how AWP handled the claim and delayed  
providing them with the call recordings.  AWP hasnt  responded to our investigator's  
recommendation that it pay £100  compensation for Mr M and Mr A's distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service. Mr M and Mr A accept that amount and I also 
think thats a reasonable total amount. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to:
pay the claim subject to the policy limit and the excess. If Mr M has already paid the 
expenses interest*  must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement,  and 
£100 compensation to Mr M and Mr A (in total) for their distress and inconvenience  
due to its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr M and Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M and Mr A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1968814