K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr M entered into a HPA with Blue Motor Finance in August 2015 to acquire a used car. He 
says that on the day he collected it there  was a leak which was repaired  by the dealer. The 
gearbox then developed  a whining noise and needed to be reconditioned. Since then further 
issues have arisen  including the steering rack needing to be replaced and Mr M says the car 
has been in for repairs on several occasions.  He says he has now been told the car needs  a 
new engine  which he believes to be due to a common fault with his model  of car.
Mr M says he has contacted Blue Motor Finance a number of times but has not been  offered 
any help.
Blue Motor  Finance says that Mr M originally complained to it in February 2016 about a leak 
and the gearbox  needing  reconditioning. He said the alternator  belt had come off and that 
the power steering had failed. It says that as the HPA had been in place more  than six 
months it asked for evidence that the faults  were  present from the point  of supply. But it did 
not receive anything.
Blue Motor  Finance says that there  were numerous  conversations with Mr M about other 
issues and no further mention  was made  of these problems with the car until March 2018 
when Mr M said it needed  a new dual mass flywheel. It says it asked him again for evidence  
the fault was present from the point of supply, but Mr M was unable  to provide this.
In June 2018, Blue Motor Finance says Mr M contacted it saying the car needed a new 
engine. It again  asked for evidence the issue was present form the point  of supply but none  
was provided.
Our investigator did not think there  was enough evidence to say that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. However,  she also said she thought  that Blue 
Motor Finance could  have  done  more to help Mr M.
She noted the payment  history on Mr Ms account  and didnt think it fair that Blue Motor  
Finance kept Mr M in the agreement  for so long.  She also said that it appeared the HPA had 
been terminated in August 2016, and again  in November 2017, but the process was unclear  
and so she did not accept termination had actually occurred. Because of this, she thought  it 
reasonable that Blue Motor Finance should have accepted Mr Ms request to voluntarily  
terminate the agreement in February 2018.  Had this happened she said the car would  have 
been returned in working condition.
Our investigator recommended that the voluntary termination be accepted now,  and the car 
recovered at no cost to Mr M. She said that a payment plan should then be arranged  to pay 
the remaining  amount  due under the voluntary termination.
Blue Motor  Finance did not accept our investigators view. It said that it had tried to work with 
Mr M during the periods  when he couldnt manage  his payments but still needed the car. It 
said it checked and confirmed the affordability  of payments on several occasions with Mr M 
and that voluntary termination was also discussed.
Ref: DRN16615542It says the HPA agreement was terminated  in November 2017, and it was not until after this 
date that Mr M asked to voluntarily terminate.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr M experienced issues with the car shortly after acquisition,  namely  a leak and a noise 
coming for the gearbox. Both of these issues were repaired by the dealer at no cost to 
Mr M and I had nothing to suggest he didnt accept these  repairs or that the repairs didnt 
resolve the issues. Therefore I found  that these repairs were  a reasonable remedy  at 
that time;
Mr M contacted Blue Motor Finance in February  2016, around six months  after he had 
entered into the agreement. He said the alternator belt had come off and there was an 
issue with the power  steering. He was asked to provide proof  the issues but I understood 
this was not received;
Mr M didnt raise  further quality issues until 2018  when he said the car was no longer 
usable;
given the time that passed between  when Mr M entered into the HPA and when he 
raised the current concerns, and the mileage that had been covered (mileage was 
recorded as over 95,000 miles in October  2017), I didnt  find I could say without further 
evidence that the issues with Mr Ms car were  present or developing at the point of 
supply. Therefore I didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint in regard to the car not being of 
satisfactory quality;
our investigator said that Blue Motor Finance should have done more  to assist Mr M 
given the difficulties he experienced making  his payments. I thought that Blue Motor  
Finance did keep Mr M informed of the situation on his account. Letters were sent about 
the arrears on the account and payment options were discussed. In August 2016, Mr M 
was sent a termination notice  and a pre-repossession notice was sent dated September 
2016;
Blue Motor Finance  said that following issue of the default notice in May 2016, Mr M had 
contacted it and agreed with its account  manager a payment plan and that the notice of 
default would be cancelled. It said this this was not within the authority of the account 
manager to agree,  but this meant the termination  issued in August 2016 was invalid. 
Blue Motor Finance  accepted that the actions taken at this time were not correct. 
However, as Mr M seemed to wish to continue with his agreement at the time, and a 
payment plan was agreed, I couldnt say the actions taken had any detrimental  impact on 
him;
a further notice of default was issued dated 1 November 2017.  This set out what would 
happen if payment  was not made by a certain date, including the termination of the 
agreement. As the payment was not made,  Mr M was sent a further termination notice 
dated 20 November  2017. While I understood that confusion may have arisen due to the 
invalid termination  in 2016, I thought that Mr M was provided with the information  he 
needed to prevent  a termination happening  at this time. The notice of default was clear 
and the termination notice confirmed  his agreement  had been  terminated. Therefore I 
found it reasonable to accept the termination  in November 2017 was valid;
Ref: DRN16615543as the HPA was terminated in November 2017,  I accepted  that Mr M was not able to 
voluntarily terminate  it when  he asked in February 2018. So I didnt ask that this now 
happen;
Mr M experienced issues with his payments  throughout the agreement. I found that Blue 
Motor Finance considered the issue of affordability and tried to work  with him on a 
number of occasions. Contact was maintained and Mr M provided reasons for missed  
payments which suggested  future payments would be made.  Given  this, I didnt think it 
fair to say Blue Motor Finance acted unreasonably by continuing with agreement until the 
default notice  was issued in November  2017.
Overall I didnt find that Mr M was treated unfairly while his agreement was in place. I also 
noted Mr M was allowed  to keep the car after the termination of the agreement subject to 
payments being  made. So while Mr M has experienced problems with the car and also in 
making the payments due under the agreement,  I didnt find I had enough evidence to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He said that when he called Blue Motor Finance 
about voluntarily  terminating  his HPA he was told he couldnt do this as his HPA had been 
terminated. He said he had no choice but to continue with the HPA. He said that as the first 
termination was invalid  he should  have  then been  able to voluntarily terminate his HPA at 
that time but this wasnt allowed. He questioned how it was possible to terminate the 
agreement twice and for him still to have the car. 
Mr M said the car had been on his drive for a year and that Blue Motor  Finance should have 
accepted his first request to terminate the HPA.  He said he was happy to pay the required 
amount to take the HPA to the amount required for a voluntary termination.
Mr M didnt  accept that he had been  treated fairly  by Blue Motor Finance. He said he had 
asked for the HPA to be frozen to allow time for him to repair  the car. He said that had his 
request to voluntarily terminate the HPA been  accepted the car would have been returned in 
working condition.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M raised  a complaint about the car not being of satisfactory quality. Mr M acquired the 
car through  a HPA,  and under the relevant regulations Blue Motor  Finance can be held liable 
if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car.
Mr Ms car was first registered in June 2011  and at the time of acquisition  it had been  driven  
around 60,000  miles. I considered the issues Mr M had raised and when these were raised. 
However, as I set out in my provisional  decision, without further  evidence  I do not find I have 
enough to say that the car was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
Blue Motor  Finance has acknowledged that the situation in 2016 was not handled correctly.  I 
accept this could  have caused  some  confusion.  However, based on the evidence  I have 
seen, Mr M continued to make payments when he could and Blue Motor Finance worked 
Ref: DRN16615544with him at this time. I note Mr Ms comments about  having to keep the car but based on 
what I have seen I have  nothing to suggest he tried to voluntarily terminate the HPA at that 
time.
The information provided shows Mr M asked to voluntarily terminate the HPA in February 
2018. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, this was after the HPA had been  
terminated and so I accept this was not allowed. I think Mr M was given sufficient information 
in November 2017 about the status  of his account  and what would happen  in the event of 
payments not being made.  He was then informed his HPA had been terminated. Therefore  I 
do not think that Blue Motor Finance is required to accept the voluntary termination request 
as of February 2018.
Mr M has experienced issues in making  his payments throughout his HPA.  However  he has 
given reasons for this and these have  suggested that future  payments would be made. 
Based on the evidence  it appears that Blue Motor Finance has tried to work with Mr M. I note 
Mr Ms comments about his request to freeze payment. However,  on balance, based  on 
what I have seen I think Blue Motor Finance has treated Mr M positively and I would expect  
this to continue  going forward.
On balance, as I set out in my provisional  decision, I do not find I have enough  evidence  to 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1661554