K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about advice he received from Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited to set up two FSAVC plans and a savings plan.
Mr H is represented in this complaint.
background
Mr H was advised to set up FSAVC plans in 1994  and in 1995. He was also advised to start 
a flexible savings  plan in 1992  over 25 years which matured in 2017.
He complained to Sun Life in 2019 saying the advice was inappropriate. Sun Life upheld  the 
complaint about  the savings plan but said no compensation  was payable as the plans  value 
was more than the redress payable.
Sun Life didnt accept that the advice for the FSAVCs was inappropriate.
So the complaint was referred to this service where it was considered  by an investigator.  
The investigator felt that the complaint about the FSAVCs should be upheld. He wasnt 
satisfied that the adviser had met the relevant regulatory requirements in explaining the 
potential better value of Mr H taking AVCs  with his employers pension scheme. The 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint about  the savings plan. He was satisfied that the 
redress offered was appropriate as he didnt think there was clear evidence  that Mr H would 
have started a less expensive plan.
Mr Hs representative didnt agree. It said it was clear  that Mr H would have taken a different, 
less expensive savings  plan with appropriate advice.
Initially, Sun Life didnt  agree with the investigators view on the FSAVCs.  It said that the 
adviser had met the relevant requirements and said that PIAOB Regulatory  Update 20 didnt 
apply as these  sales pre-dated it. The investigator provided further clarification of his view 
and then Sun Life changed its position and upheld this aspect of the complaint. It agreed to 
calculate any loss.
As no agreement has been reached on the savings  plan, the case has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FSAVCs
Sun Life has accepted  the investigators  view and agreed to calculate loss on a charges  only 
basis.
Mr Hs representatives say that redress should  be calculated on an added  years basis.  I 
dont agree. Added years would have appeared to be an expensive option  at the time and I 
dont think Mr H would have considered that added years represented good value to him. Its 
also the case that he left this employment within a few years  and so added years  would 
probably have  been  of little, if any, value.
Ref: DRN17460992The FSAVC   putting things right
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance  with the regulators  FSAVC 
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005  and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible 
or has protection or allowance implications,  it should be paid directly  to Mr H as a lump  sum 
after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid in retirement. 25 per cent of the loss would be tax-free and 75 per cent would have  
been taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20 per 
cent. So making a notional  deduction  of 15 per cent overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
The savings plan
Sun Life has agreed that the advice for the sale of this plan was inappropriate. It calculated 
the value of the premiums paid plus interest but this was less than the actual maturity value 
of the plan so there was no loss.
Mr Hs representatives say that he should  have  been recommended a more  suitable plan 
with a shorter term and lower charges. And so, any loss should  be calculated  based on a 
comparison between the actual plan and this more suitable plan, or a refund of the 
difference in charges. 
I agree  that there is some weight to this argument.  Mr H may have  chosen  a different, 
shorter plan, if it had been discussed with him. But I dont think that is certain. Deciding what  
choices Mr H may have made  with different information, more than twenty seven years ago 
is not simple. I think it would involve speculation to conclude with any certainty that he would 
have chosen a shorter term policy and then extended it up to this twenty five year term. Mr H 
took the policy with a twenty five year term and kept it for the full term. So I dont  think it is 
unreasonable for Sun Life to have calculated redress in the way that it has. I think its 
assessment is fair.   
Ref: DRN17460993my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited in 
relation to the FSAVC advice given in 1994 and 1995. It must calculate  and pay redress  as 
set out above.  I make  no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1746099