K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading  as Abbey National) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander  in my decision as it is responsible for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 2003, Mrs R had a PPI policy alongside a mortgage. She paid a monthly  amount  for the 
policy and it protected  her mortgage  repayments  if she couldnt work.  The policy was added  
at a meeting with the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  Mrs R disagrees.  She says she cant  
remember PPI ever being discussed and she didnt know  she had it. She said she didnt 
need it because  her parents wouldve helped out with her repayments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive seen Mrs Rs mortgage application. Santander  no longer has a copy  of her PPI 
application. So I havent seen anything signed by Mrs R from when she was sold PPI. But 
thats not surprising, given  how long ago this sale happened. Bank often only keep records 
for six years and Mrs Rs mortgage  account  closed over ten years ago.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  at the meetings Mrs R had with the bank. It isnt 
reasonable to expect  Mrs R to recall in detail what was said at the time after so long. This 
means that what Mrs R says about how Santander  sold her the PPI isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have  to look at everything  and decide what 
I think is most likely,  taking everything into account.  
Ive seen a sample  of the paperwork that Santander was using at the time this PPI was sold.  
The customer wouldve  had to complete a form, separate from the mortgage application, to 
apply for PPI. I havent seen anything that makes me think  that Santander wasnt following 
its usual sales process  in Mrs Rs case. So, I think it more likely that Mrs R filled in a form 
like this one to apply  for PPI. I understand why Mrs R mightve forgotten this now.  But, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that at the time Mrs R said she wanted to have the benefits  
that PPI offered her and she decided to buy the policy  after Santander recommended  the 
policy to her. 
Santander accepts  that it wouldve recommended the policy  to Mrs R. So, that means  it had 
the added  responsibility of considering whether the cover  was suitable for Mrs R. It also had 
to give her important policy information in a clear way. 
Ref: DRN11206922I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs R based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances. The 
policy couldve covered  her mortgage  repayments  for  potentially longer than her sick pay 
wouldve covered  her for  at least up to 12 months per claim, compared  to up to 3 months 
worth of sick pay from her employer. It wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits  
providing a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time  especially if Mrs R mightve 
faced extra costs as a result of being  sick or disabled. The policy  couldve also paid out if 
Mrs R lost her job and was unexpectedly  unemployed.  
Mrs R said her parents couldve helped with her repayments. I accept they may have wanted 
to, but I havent  placed much weight on this, as help of this kind cant  always  be guaranteed 
when the time comes.
Its possible Santander didnt point out some  things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs R doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of those. So, I dont  think  its likely this information 
wouldve made any difference  to her decision to take out PPI. I dont know if the PPI cost 
was made  clear to Mrs R when the policy was added. But, I cant  see that the policy  was 
unaffordable and the monthly  premium couldve been cancelled  at any time without Mrs R 
losing out financially.   
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs R still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even  if shed been given clearer 
information as it gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont find that Mrs R 
has lost out as a result  of anything Santander did wrong. So, it follows that I dont uphold  
Mrs Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1120692