K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) didnt pay an important direct 
debit from his current account.
background
Mr T told us that he has a current account with Halifax. He said that Halifax  didnt pay the 
direct debit for his credit card account,  which is held with a different company, even though 
there was enough  money in the account when it was due, on 10 September.  He said that his 
credit card company had removed his interest  free offer because of this, and it was now very 
difficult for him to manage the repayments.  He also said hed been turned down for credit  
elsewhere, which he thought was because  hed missed making this payment. 
Mr T told us that the terms and conditions of his account meant that Halifax shouldve paid 
the direct  debit. He wanted it to write him a letter admitting that it had made a mistake.  And 
he wanted it to pay him some compensation to make up for the interest hed had to pay, for 
not being able to get credit elsewhere,  and for all the stress this had caused. 
Halifax said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It had sent Mr T a text message  on the 
morning of 10 September, to say that it hadnt been able to pay his direct  debit. It said then 
that if he paid some money in by 2.30pm then it would try to take the payment again.  Mr T 
had said that he expected  a payment to go into his account by BACS transfer  the day 
before, but Halifax said that this payment wasnt a BACS  transfer. It was a debit card refund. 
And it didnt  clear until after 2.30pm on 10 September.  So his credit  card payment couldnt 
be made. 
Halifax said that it will sometimes try again after 2.30pm to take a payment, but it doesnt 
have to do that, and it didnt  promise to make a payment from Mr Ts account  unless  he got 
more money into the account by 2.30pm. Mr T hadnt done that. Halifax didnt think it was its 
fault that this direct  debit payment didnt go through.
Our adjudicator looked carefully at the payments going in and out of Mr Ts account on 
10 September, when  the direct debit was due to be paid. He said that there wasnt  enough  
money in the account to pay all his direct debits,  after Halifax allowed for the other  payments 
which were due. There was some more money that came into the account  on that day, but 
that didnt clear before 2.30pm. So our adjudicator didnt think that Halifax did anything 
wrong when it didnt pay the direct debit to Mr Ts credit card company on 10 September.   
Our adjudicator knew that Mr T had told us about  the consequences  of not making  this 
payment, which  meant he was now going to have  to pay interest on a large  debt. And our 
adjudicator said that he appreciated  that this had been worrying  for Mr T. But our adjudicator  
said he couldnt hold Halifax  responsible  for that. He didnt think it had to do any more.
Mr T sent us excerpts from the terms and conditions of his account. Those said that if he 
didnt have enough money  at the start of the day to pay his direct  debit, he had until 2.30pm 
to pay some more in, and Halifax  would then try again to take the payment after 2.30pm. 
Mr T said this showed Halifax could try to take a payment  right up until the close of business.  
And he said the rules  about direct debits didnt  allow banks to set cut off times for payments. 
Mr T said that the payment into his account  was released by the company paying  him on 9 
September, but it was definitely paid into his account before close  of business on 10 
Ref: DRN15193702September. And once that payment in credited  his account, there was enough money  to pay 
his direct debit. He still wanted Halifax  to write  him a letter  that he could show  to his credit 
card company, admitting that the missed payment was its fault.
Our adjudicator didnt  change his mind. He said that the money had to be available  in the 
account, for the payment  of a direct debit  to be made. When  it wasnt available, he would 
expect a bank  to follow its terms and conditions. And thats what Halifax  had done here. It 
had told Mr T he needed  to put money into the account by 2.30pm. Some  money had come 
into the account, but not by this cut-off time.  So Halifax didnt have to make the payment. 
Our adjudicator said that he appreciated that this must be frustrating, but Halifax had 
followed the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account. It hadnt done  anything wrong. 
Mr T still didnt think that Halifax could add a cut-off  time to his direct debit payment. He 
wanted an ombudsman  to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
Mr T wrote again before I considered this decision,  enclosing a statement which he said 
showed that there was enough money  in his account at the end of the day for his direct debit 
payments to clear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  as our 
adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I realise that this complaint must be very frustrating  for Mr T. First Halifax,  and now our 
service, has told him that he missed  out on a direct debit clearing by a very short  period of 
time. He has argued that there was enough money  in the account by the end of the day, so 
his direct debit shouldve cleared. 
Mr T also says that the direct debit rules dont  say that Halifax  can apply a cut off time for 
payments. So he thought  that Halifax was breaking  those  rules,  by doing that. I dont agree 
with Mr T on that. Ill explain why not. 
The direct debit rules just say that a payment should  be taken on a particular  day, or the next 
working day if the payment day falls on a weekend  or bank holiday.  They  dont say when in 
the day the payment will be taken.  But that doesnt mean  that a bank  has to keep trying  all 
day to take the payment. It just means  that the direct debit rules dont cover  this. 
Halifaxs terms and conditions do cover  this. It says it tries to take the payments first thing, 
so it will usually pay direct  debits from someones account in the very early hours of the 
morning. Itll check then what needs to be paid that day, and if more  money  is due to go out 
than is available  in the account,  Halifax says that it will text its customers  to give them  a 
chance to pay some money in. It doesnt have  to do that, its chosen  to do this to give 
customers an extra opportunity to make sure payments arent missed. 
But theres still a cut-off  for this extra  chance  to make sure payments out of the account  will 
clear. Its 2.30pm. Halifax has only promised to try once more to take a direct debit, and it 
will only do that if Mr T has paid money into his account by 2.30pm. 
I know that the refunded debit card payment that went into Mr Ts account on 10 September  
was sent on 9 September. I know it was enough to allow the direct debits on his account to 
clear. And I know it finally arrived in his account  only about 40 minutes after the cut-off  time.  
Ref: DRN15193703But that payment  wasnt paid in by Mr T, and it didnt  arrive before the deadline.  Ive seen 
the evidence to show it didnt clear until after 2.30pm  on 10 September.  I dont think  it was 
Halifaxs fault that this payment didnt clear  until after 2.30pm.
Because that payment  in to Mr Ts account  didnt clear until after 2.30pm, Halifax doesnt 
have to use it to make  a direct debit payment. And it doesnt have to keep trying  to take that 
direct debit payment  until the end of the day.
I think Halifax has set out clearly in its terms and conditions  what it will do. I dont think that 
what it has said conflicts with the direct debit rules.  And I think that Halifax has done what it 
said it would  do. 
I do realise how frustrating it has been  for Mr T to lose out on an interest  free offer,  when the 
payment he was expecting arrived in his account so close to meeting Halifaxs cut-off  time. 
But he didnt  meet the cut-off. I dont  think its unfair  for Halifax not to keep trying to take his 
direct debits until the end of the day. And I dont think  Halifax is then responsible  for the 
decisions that a different  credit card company takes,  when it doesnt get its payment on time. 
I know that Mr T will be very disappointed,  but I dont think  that his complaint should be 
upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519370