K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 2005 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. they 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £574 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £34.65 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a warehouseman. He has told us he was entitled  to 
between six and twelve months sick and redundancy pay and didnt have any other means 
of repaying his mortgage should he be unable to work.   Mr L has said he had a medical 
condition since childhood, and some medical  procedures many years  before. 
Mrs L was employed as a personal administrator. She has told us she was entitled to 
between six and twelve months sick and redundancy pay and didnt have any other means 
of repaying her mortgage should she be unable to work.   Mrs L has said he had a medical 
procedure as a child. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ls representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN11254722The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN11254723In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN11254724including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs L 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Santander has provided evidence that the PPI was discussed. The mortgage offer also 
made clear that Mr and Mrs L did not have to take any insurance from Santander alongside 
the mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs L knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs L agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
The documentary evidence suggests  that Santander took some steps to establish  whether 
the policy was a suitable recommendation  for Mr and Mrs L. The adviser had information 
about some  of Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances  as part of the mortgage  application.  
But although  a customer profile was completed  to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs L 
had a need for the policy  by asking questions about their circumstances  such as whether 
they could keep up with their repayments if they couldnt work  I dont  think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because it doesnt appear to have considered things like 
whether they had existing medical  conditions.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L given  their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs L met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN11254725-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ls ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
and Mrs L were  not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy and sick pay benefits  they say they would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L]. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ls employment or occupation  which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr 
and Mrs L have  told us about a medical condition Mr L had, and medical procedures 
they both had some time before the sale. But the medical  procedures  were decades  
before the sale and theres nothing to suggest the underlying  conditions  were 
ongoing or had reoccurred prior to the sale. And while Mr L had a medical condition 
since childhood, this appears to have  been  well controlled with him only ever having  
had a couple of days off work because of it. There were  also no additional  restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ls circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs L 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs L were  unable  to work  through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs L agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs L all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN11254726In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs L. So, I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs L suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs L would  have  still taken out the policy, had Santander done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs L have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs L would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs L says they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN11254727The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs L applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs L 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have  found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs L would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs Ls expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr and Mrs L had 
received treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date (unless they 
had been symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for the 
condition in the 24 months  prior to a claim). 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs L werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs L be 
unable to do their normal job and any other  employment which their experience,  
education and training  reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Ref: DRN11254728them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr L says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy may not have provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr L had the condition 
since childhood, and it appeared to be well controlled, having  only caused him to have a few 
days off work over the years. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs L had known  they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do their 
normal job and any other employment which their experience, education and training 
reasonably qualified them to do, it might have played into their thinking about  what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs L were unable  
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up another occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs L that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr and Mrs L would have  received  full sick pay 
for, and their redundancy  entitlement was also less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs L would still have thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs L be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ls sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs L were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN11254729Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs L found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs L, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in [date] when providing information about  an insurance 
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Santander had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN112547210my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1125472