K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr Ws insurance policy was due for renewal in July 2018. He called UKI around 27 July 
2018 after receiving  renewal documents and the policy was set-up.  UKI applied  for the 
monthly instalment  by direct debit but payment was rejected. So UKI sent Mr W a letter  
explaining this and that it would apply for payment again later in August (on a given  date). 
This payment was rejected  too; another letter was sent to Mr W and a third payment request 
was rejected later in September.  UKI tried to get in touch with Mr W on the telephone but 
was unsuccessful and a final letter was sent in early October stating the policy would be 
cancelled for non-payment,  unless payment was made.
UKI informed Mr W cancellation would happen on 22 October 2018 and as no response was 
received UKI cancelled  the policy from a date which meant that he didnt owe UKI any 
money. When the policy was cancelled the initial payment from July was the only payment 
outstanding.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  UKI had treated  Mr W 
unfairly. He explained that the July payment  had been rejected three times over August and 
September and on each  occasion a letter was sent about the payment failure. He was 
satisfied that UKI had attempted to call Mr W in September and finally  sent a letter in early 
October asking for payment or the policy would  be cancelled on 22 October. And as no 
contact or payment  was received UKI cancelled  the policy  as warned. 
Mr W disagreed   he said UKI was unclear about the payment date and he didnt receive 
any letters  or phone calls from UKI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the telephone call where Mr W renewed his home  insurance.  During  this call 
the price and terms of payment were  discussed and agreed. It was anticipated  that a 
monthly payment  of £12.32 would  be taken on the 25th of the month. But this date had just 
passed and UKIs representative said it was likely that the first payment  would  be taken soon 
and likely next month. This is what happened  but the payment was rejected on the 1st and 
23rd of the following month and again  on the 13th of the month  after. These are the dates that 
Mr W gave to UKI from his online banking which showed the rejected payments. 
From looking  at UKIs records I can see they show letters were sent to Mr W explaining the 
payment problem and requesting payment. And they show  a call was made to Mr W but 
without success.  In October  2018 UKI wrote again  to Mr W explaining that his policy was to 
be cancelled  because  of the outstanding payment.
The policy documents and the payment agreement make it clear that UKI might  cancel  the 
policy for non-payment;
You will only be covered if you pay your premiums.
Ref: DRN15023802If we cant collect your premium on the date it is due, we will assume that you do not want to 
continue with your policy  unless you tell us otherwise.
We may cancel your policy on that date. Before we do, we will write to you to give you 
another opportunity to make  the payment. If you do not pay the premium by the date stated 
in our letter, we will write  to you to confirm  that your policy was cancelled  on the date the 
missed payment was due.
I appreciate Mr W says he didnt receive  anything  but Im satisfied UKI sent letters about the 
problem. UKI requested  the payment three times  and in the circumstances of three  
rejections, I think its reasonable for UKI to cancel  where payment has not been made in 
accordance with what was agreed between the parties. 
Mr W makes issue of the fact that payment wasnt requested  on the 25th of the month  but Im 
satisfied he was told that the first payment would be taken out soon after the call and likely 
the next month. As it was clear I think its reasonable  to have expected  Mr W to raise an 
issue at that point if payment outside the 25th was problematic. He didnt  and Im satisfied 
UKI requested payment  in line with what it had explained.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied UKI made its payment process sufficiently clear  and 
what would  happen  if payments werent met. Im satisfied UKI sent letters  to Mr W at his 
registered address  explaining the failed payments and latterly a letter informing him about 
cancellation. Its unfortunate  that Mr W says he didnt receive any letters  but Im persuaded 
they were sent.  Mr Ws online banking showed rejected payments and yet he didnt make 
any contact with UKI. In all the circumstances Im satisfied UKI has acted in line with the 
policy and fairly by giving Mr W a number of opportunities to rectify the matter.
I sent an email to Mr W asking him for further information about  his banking  statements.  He 
said hed provide this and I gave him until 15 April to reply.  At the time of writing this decision 
I have not had any further information from Mr W. The telephone call in which he outlines 
some information to UKI that he said he was reading live from his online banking satisfies 
me that the absence of his bank  statements is not material to the outcome. In any case Im 
satisfied hes had a reasonable  amount of time to provide the information  Ive requested
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1502380