K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) registered 
information about a payment arrangement on his credit file despite assuring  him it wouldnt. 
background
Mr B had an Amex charge  card but in May 2016  he experienced some financial difficulties 
and had trouble  making his payments. In July 2016 he agreed a Care Plan with Amex which  
meant he was able to clear the outstanding balance over a 12 month  period. 
Mr B says that when  discussing the plan he was assured  there would be no impact on his 
credit file. But Amex reported an Agreement to Pay (AR) to the credit reference agencies  
and also said his account was six months  in arrears. 
Earlier this year Mr B got a copy of his credit report and found the AR and arrears 
information. Hes explained that a recent mortgage  application has been declined as a result 
of the information reported by Amex. Mr B also says that hes had other credit applications 
declined. 
Mr B complained and Amex agreed it had incorrectly reported  his account was six months  
behind when  it was actually two months  in arrears when he agreed the Care Plan. It took 
steps to amend the information on Mr Bs credit file. But it didnt agree hed been told details 
of the plan wouldnt be reported. Amex  wasnt able to find the call Mrs B has referred  to in 
his complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. In Amexs file 
submission it offered to pay Mr £50 as an apology for the error it made  in reporting the level 
of arrears. 
The investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and asked Amex to pay a total of £100 for the error 
it made in reporting  the level of arrears on his credit file. Amex agreed but Mr B didnt think 
the settlement  was fair so his complaints been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, the call where Mr B says he discussed the impact of the Care  Plan with Amex 
isnt available  to listen to. But Amex has supplied its call notes as well as the letter  it sent 
Mr B on 20 July 2016 when the plan was agreed. In his response to the investigator Mr B 
says he doesnt  believe the call notes weve been given are authentic. But I have no reason 
to believe thats  the case and Im satisfied the contact  notes  are genuine. 
The contact  notes show Amex agreed  the Care Plan with Mr B in July 2016 after his account  
was two months behind.  That means that even  if Mr B had cleared his arrears at that point 
his credit file would still have shown some  missed payments. 
The notes also indicate Mr B had changed  jobs which impacted his ability to clear the 
outstanding balance. Im satisfied  the contact notes show Mr B had experienced financial 
difficulties in the months leading up to the decision  to proceed with the Care  Plan. 
Ref: DRN16109462I need to decide whether Mr B was given clear information concerning  how the Care Plan 
would impact his credit  file. I also need to think about what  Mr B would  have done  differently 
if hed been given a clear  explanation of what would  happen after he agreed the Care  Plan. 
Ive looked at the information given to Mr B around  the time he agreed the Care Plan. I can 
see that the impact  of the Care  Plan was specifically  noted as being  discussed with Mr B in a 
call note date 5 July 2016. The note records that Mr B told Amex that he wanted to consider 
his options. He later called back  to enrol onto the Care Plan on 15 July 2016. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but the evidence Ive seen indicates the impact of Amexs Care 
Plan was discussed  with him before he proceeded. And I dont think  its likely that a call 
handler at Amex would  have  told Mr B that a care plan had no impact on a customers credit 
file - I think they would  have known that it would.  I think Amex  did make Mr B aware his 
credit file would  be impacted by the late payments and Care Plan. 
Mr B says that if he was told information  about the Care Plan would be reported he would 
have taken a loan elsewhere  and cleared  the balance. But I have to take into account  that 
Mr B told Amex  he was between jobs and suffering some financial difficulties when it agreed 
the Care Plan. In addition, regardless of how the Care  Plan is reported,  Mr B also had some 
missed payments from May and June 2016  on his credit file. In these  circumstances, I think 
its more likely than not that Mr Bs options would have been limited. Whilst Mr B says he 
could have taken  out  a  loan elsewhere theres  no evidence  to support that. 
Amex did make a mistake as it said Mr B was six months in arrears instead  of two. I 
appreciate that meant the status of the account looked worse than it was. But I have to 
balance that against the fact the card was in arrears  and part of a payment arrangement.  So 
there would always  have been  some  adverse information reflecting that on Mr Bs credit file. 
Amex has provided evidence that it amended  Mr Bs credit file to accurately reflect  that his 
account was two months behind, not six. Amex  has also agreed to pay Mr B £100 for the 
impact of its error. 
Mr B says the information Amex reported meant applications for bank accounts,  credit and a 
mortgage were declined. Mr B sent us an email from a business he received after a current  
account application was declined. But the email doesnt say why the application wasnt  
successful and I cant fairly say it was due to the information Amex  recorded. Mr Bs also told 
us a mortgage application was declined. 
Whilst a mortgage  application may have been declined I havent seen anything  to show  that 
was because of the information recorded  by Amex.  And I need to take into account that Im 
satisfied Amex was right to report the existence of the Care Plan as a payment arrangement  
and the fact Mr B was behind with his payments. As we have no evidence  of why Mr Bs 
applications werent successful, I cant conclude it was due to the incorrect  number of 
missed payments being reported by Amex.  
Ref: DRN16109463Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but I havent been persuaded that Amex told him there  would be 
no impact to his credit  file by agreeing  the Care Plan. I appreciate the calls in question arent 
now available but the call notes do indicate Mr Bs credit file was discussed. On balance, I 
think the people  Mr B discussed  his options  with would have been aware of the impact on 
his credit file and passed that information onto him. I agree Amex  incorrectly  reported  the 
level of arrears to the credit reference agencies. Amex has agreed to pay Mr B £100 in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset caused by its error. Taking everything Ive seen into 
account, Im satisfied £100 fairly  reflects the impact of Amexs  error. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct  
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) to pay Mr B £100 (less  any 
compensation already paid).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 Septemeber 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1610946