K820x#14complaint
Ms G says Everyday Loans  Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  
with a personal loan.
background
Im aware that Ms G has two quite similar  complaints with us. So to be clear, this complaint 
is about a regular premium PPI policy  taken  out with a loan in September 2007. Ms G 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said they thought we shouldnt uphold  the complaint. 
Ms G didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this particular complaint. Ms G will get a separate letter  about  her 
other complaint.
I can see Ms G has provided a number of reasons  why she thinks  the policy was mis-sold to 
her. These included  that she didnt know it was optional and she didnt  need  it. 
However, we were sent a copy of the original credit agreement Ms G signed on 5 September 
2007. My understanding of the process  is that consumers normally  agreed the loan details 
over the telephone first and then went into an office premises to finalise the matter and sign 
the forms. We tend to see that it was here that the PPI was usually sold.
I think Ms G would have been  able to see she didnt need to buy the PPI if she didnt want 
to. This is because there was a box next to a declaration which said I wish to purchase  
Repayment Protection Insurance.  A tick was placed  into the box and Ms G signed the form. 
I note there  was a very similar box below  this point to not have PPI  and this wasnt  ticked.
So I think Ms G agreed to the PPI.
This was an advised  sale so Everyday Loans had a duty to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for Ms G. Broadly, I think it probably was. She was eligible for the cover  and not 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Ms G told us that 
she had some protection from sickness already  through  her job. Ive thought carefully about 
this, but it doesnt  necessarily mean  the policy wasnt of use. In the event of a successful  
claim, it would have paid out a monthly  sum to help with Ms Gs loan repayments. Having 
looked at her situation, I think  this was of value.  And so I dont think the recommendation to 
have PPI was unreasonable.
Everyday Loans  also had a duty to make sure the information it provided about the PPI was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ref: DRN15033772I obviously cant say after this length of time what was actually  discussed  when the parties 
met but I think the way Everyday Loans  calculated the monthly PPI premium was quite  
complicated. 
For example, the cost of the PPI policy was calculated as a percentage of the loan balance 
outstanding each month. This meant that the cost couldnt be shown as an accurate monthly 
premium at the time of sale because consumers paid more for their PPI at the beginning of 
their loan (when the balance was high) than at the end (when the balance  was low). So 
Everyday Loans  expressed the PPI charges as an average monthly  amount.
This means  Ms G wouldve  paid a lower proportion towards  the outstanding balance  of her 
loan - and a higher proportion in interest  - at the start of the loan term. Towards the end of 
the term the proportion of loan interest shed  pay off would  be higher. 
Whilst I dont think  this would have been very clear to Ms G, taking everything  into 
consideration, I dont  have enough  to say this would have changed whether or not she would 
have still bought the PPI policy. This is because  the extra PPI premiums  generated by 
calculating the interest  in this way, was very low. Neither do I have any indication that at this 
point in time, Ms G was likely  to pay her loan off early.
Put another way, although  the information could certainly have been a lot better, I think she 
would have still bought the policy. It seems to me that Ms G wanted this type of cover and 
overall, the other disclosures about  the cost and what  the policy covered were relatively 
clear.
Although Everyday Loans didnt do everything  right, I dont have enough  to say this policy  
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint or direct  Everyday Loans 
Limited to put any matters  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1503377