K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Homeserve Membership  Limited unfairly charged him for a home  
emergency insurance policy.
background
On about 15 January 2010 Homeserve set up a plumbing and drainage  policy for Mr V. On 
each anniversary,  Homeserve renewed  the policy. It took payments from Mr Vs bank 
account until in January  2019 he complained and it cancelled the policy. Homeserve 
refunded payment for the year 2019. But Mr V complained that it should refund him for the 
previous years  because  he hadnt agreed to the policy or its renewal.
Our investigator said that a complaint must  be brought  to us within six years  of the product 
being taken or within three years of when the consumer shouldve been aware there was a 
problem. That is unless  there was consent  from the business or exceptional circumstances 
for the delay  in bringing the complaint. As he had not received such consent or exceptional  
circumstances, the investigator said he could only look back to January 2013.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  He didnt think  that 
the policy had been renewed  unfairly.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Homeserve stole money from him without  him realising. 
He didnt get the renewal letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr V shouldve  seen from his bank statements that Homeserve took payments each 
January from 2010. He first complained to Homeserve on about 21 January 2019. I dont 
think Mr V has said anything  to challenge the investigators view that  under the rules by 
which we are bound - we only have  power to look back  to January 2013. 
Ive seen Homeserves screenshots  showing that  for each of the renewals  it generated 
and printed renewal  letters about  four weeks in advance  of the renewal  date of 15 January. 
From those screenshots Im satisfied that Homeserve sent Mr V renewal letters  saying that it 
was automatically renewing the policy, giving him an opportunity  to cancel it, and telling him 
how much  it was going to take by direct debit.  I dont find that was unfair  or unreasonable.
Mr V hasnt said that he had changed address. So Im satisfied  that Homeserve sent the 
letters to the correct address. I dont think Homeserve had to send them  by recorded  delivery  
or signed-for delivery. So I dont hold Homeserve responsible in the unlikely event that Mr V 
didnt receive any of the letters.
I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that Homeserve took the annual premium  by direct debit 
later in January  each  year.
Ref: DRN15386082Mr V got in touch with Homeserve on about 21 January  2019.  He was able to cancel the 
policy for this year  and to get a refund of the premium of about £138.00.
As he mentioned that he had enough cover by way of home  buildings insurance, Homeserve 
offered to look into whether he had duplicated  cover.  But Mr V hasnt pursued that point.
Overall I dont find that Homeserve has treated Mr V unfairly.  I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to order Homeserve  to make any further  refund to Mr V  or to do anything  else 
in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Homeserve Membership Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1538608