K820x#14complaint
Mr P and his representative complain  that hes been harassed by Paragon Finance PLC 
(trading as Idem Servicing) when its attempted to collect  a debt from him. They want the 
amount owed to be demonstrated as fair, for it to be reduced or written off and £100 
compensation.
 
background
Our investigator didnt  feel this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
It isnt our role to look into whether a debt is legally  enforceable. Thats  a matter for a 
court. But we can look at whether its fair to expect a debt collector  to stop asking for 
payments or to stop taking reasonable steps to recover the money.
In this case Paragon  hasnt provided the original signed agreement between Mr P 
and the original credit provider. But it has provided a notice of assignment of the debt 
from the credit provider to Paragon  and statements showing  the amount  owed  and 
payments made by Mr P towards  the debt at various  times.
Paragon has shown  its seeking repayment  of a debt that arose  from an account Mr P 
opened and operated.  And Paragon hasnt therefore done anything wrong.
Mr Ps representative doesnt agree and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  It says Mr P 
disputes the alleged debt.  Paragon  hasnt provided a copy of the credit agreement  and 
hasnt demonstrated  a debt is owed. It cannot therefore verify if there is a debt or whether 
the amount claimed is in accordance with the agreements terms or whether there was 
anything for the original  credit provider to assign.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Taking everything into account  I think Paragon has shown on balance that the available 
evidence shows there was a debt owed  by Mr P to the original credit  provider. And it isnt for 
this Service to decide if the original agreement and debt is legally enforceable. Thats a 
matter for a Court.
Here I agree  with the investigator  that the available evidence shows  that there was a debt 
which has been assigned  by the original  credit provider to Paragon. And as such I think 
Paragon has acted  reasonably by trying  to recover it, as its done.  Consequently I dont think  
I can fairly or reasonably require Paragon to reduce or write  off the debt or pay Mr P any 
compensation as hed like.
If Mr P remains unhappy about  the legal enforceability of the original agreement or with the 
amount owed he may wish to take this up with the original credit provider.
Ref: DRN19167022Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1916702