K821x#15complaint
The representatives of the Estate of Mr M want Invesco  Fund  Managers  Limited to reissue  
the late Mr Ms uncashed income payments  covering  the period 1995 to 2012.
background
An adjudicator at this service  felt the complaint should be largely upheld.
According to her summary, Invesco wrote to Mr A, one of the executors  of Mr Ms Will, on 3 
October 2017 saying  he held an account jointly with his brother-in-law Mr R, and was entitled  
annual distributions  for an investment it managed, and for the years 2013 to 2017. It 
subsequently paid these sums.
Mr R and Mr A acted  as executors of the Wills  of his wifes parents and her aunt.  Invesco 
confirmed that the account had existed prior to 1995 and so Mr A believed  that the account 
was part of the estate of his late father-in-law. He explained that although he was named as 
an executor the Will approved by his father-in-laws  solicitors  after he died in 1987 they did 
not inform him of the existence  of this account  or point out that the contents should have 
been paid to the widow who died in 1997.
Mr A said it was ascertained that Invesco had been sending the distributions to his previous 
address - which the solicitors provided  when they transferred  the account to him and Mr R - 
but that he had moved home  in July 1988.
The business has stated  that under the collective  investment scheme  rules,  if an income 
cheque hasn't been presented to the bank within six years of issue, the money is reinvested  
back into the fund from which  it was issued (not back into the clients account). 
This meant that payments  unclaimed between 1987  and 2012  could be claimed. Mr A stated 
that the solicitors  who approved the Will in 1988 were negligent in setting up an account  and 
failing to inform  the executors. 
But the adjudicator said this didnt  explain why Invesco had failed to spot that the dividend  
cheques had not been paid into any account.   She recognised that it may not have been  
aware the dividend cheques  had not been encashed but it admitted that a do not mail flag 
was added to the account in 2001 due to post being returned.
She said that the Financial Conduct Authority  has since issued best practice guidance as to 
what businesses should do in these circumstances, stating that firms must have a clearly 
defined process to try and re-establish contact with such customers. These  include 
attempting re-contact  at the point they record someone as gone-away and, if unsuccessful,  
within 18 months of that first attempt and at least every three  years  after that. Examples of 
what would  constitute  reasonable  efforts include electoral register  and mortality checks, 
using third-party credit  agencies, the DWP-forwarding service and bank letter forwarding 
services.
She recognised that Invesco was not required to undertake these specific steps back in 
1995 or in 2001 when post was returned  and a do not mail flag added  to the account. 
Nevertheless, she said, this service believes that businesses had a general  responsibility to 
try and trace customers even back then and this included taking some recorded action. She 
Ref: DRN10507672said there was no evidence to suggest Invesco undertook any steps to try and trace  Mr A in 
2001 when a flag was added to the account.
Had action been  taken she thought it would have succeeded in tracking  down Mr A so that 
the distribution payments could be made. For this reason, she proposed that it paid the 
estate of Mr M the distribution  payments which were due to the executors from 2001 (when 
post was marked  returned)  up to 2012.
Invesco did not agree, and said:
It was the solicitors who approved the Will that were negligent in the setting up of the 
account and then failing to inform  the Executors of its existence
The income payments  would  have been  sent to the registered  address  it held on file 
at the time
At the time in question it was not required to undertake any specific steps to re-
establish contact  with clients
In line with the Collective Investment Scheme rules (COLL),  the monies were 
reinvested back into the funds from which they were issued
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
As she said, while there were no specific rules  requiring business to actively track  down  
gone-away customers  this was obviously something which was in the best interests of 
customers. It is also something this service  believes should have been  part of a business 
fair and reasonable approach to its customers and their assets.
There is, from what I have read, no dispute  that Invesco did not undertake any such steps.
If, as Invesco, argues  the solicitors were  also at fault that is not something I have the power  
to consider. I am satisfied, however, for the reasons outlined by the adjudicator, that this 
complaint against  Invesco  should  be upheld with the compensation she spelt out.
Invesco must pay to the estate of Mr M the distribution payments which were due between  
2001 and 2012. It must  also add 8% simple  interest  per annum to each payment from the 
date it was due to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10507673my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Invesco  Fund  Managers Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 
2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1050767