K821x#15complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way her motor insurance provider - Admiral Insurance Company
Limited - handled her claim  and her subsequent complaint about the service provided.
background
In May 2018  Mrs D was involved in a car accident with another  vehicle on a roundabout.
Both parties  claimed that the other  crossed lanes and caused the collision. Neither  party
admitted fault,  there were  no witnesses  and no CCTV.  The third party  said they had a dash
cam, but the footage from this has never  been provided.
After the accident  Mrs D contacted Admiral. Mrs D told Admiral that she wasnt  at fault and
that the third party said they had a dash cam.  Admiral requested the dash  cam footage  from
the third partys insurer, who said that it was available  and once they had it, theyd forward  it
to Admiral.
Around a year later Admiral sent Mrs D an email and left her a voicemail. Admiral wanted to
know if Mrs D was willing to attend  court. And they said that unless Mrs D replied that
afternoon, they would be forced to settle the third partys claim in full. Mrs D was on holiday
and didnt see the email or listen to the voicemail. Therefore, that afternoon, Admiral  settled
the third partys claim  in full with their insurer on a without prejudice basis.
Mrs D was unhappy and complained to Admiral with the help of her son, raising the following
points
Admiral had dealt  with the claim against  Mrs D on a fault basis  when she had 
originally claimed  that she wasnt at fault.  And this would disadvantage  her when 
obtaining future motor  insurance policies.
Admiral didnt give her enough time to reply before settling the claim with the third 
partys insurer.
Admiral took over a year to deal with the claim.
Admiral accepted that they hadnt  given Mrs D enough time to respond before settling the
claim and they accepted  that theyd taken  too long to deal with it. They offered Mrs D £120
compensation. Mrs D said that this wasnt enough.
However, Admiral didnt accept that Mrs D suffered  any detriment when they settled on a
fault basis. Admiral said that without  CCTV or witnesses the best possible outcome would
have been a 50/50 settlement. Admiral  said that even if the claim was settled 50/50  it would
still be logged as an, at fault claim.  Admiral  said that in relation to future  insurance  policies, it
made no difference if the claim was settled on a 50/50 or on a full fault basis, as both would
be listed as fault incidents.
In June 2019 Admiral  reviewed their response  to Mrs Ds complaint. The reviewer  found  that
they should have upheld  Mrs Ds complaint in its entirety. The reviewer  found that even
though a 50/50 settlement  would  still appear  as a fault settlement, Mrs D was unhappy that it
had been settled on the basis that she was 100% at fault and that Admiral  had paid the third
party claim in full. The reviewer  said that Admiral should have fought for 50/50 settlement.
But Admiral  didnt offer any more  compensation.
Ref: DRN11101382Mrs D wasnt happy with Admirals handling of her claim and wasnt  happy that Admiral had
done enough to put things right. So, she brought a complaint to our service  with the help of
her son. One of our investigators  looked into the complaint. The investigator said that he
agreed with Admiral in that Mrs D hadnt suffered any detriment  when Admiral  settled her
claim on a fault basis. He agreed  that Admiral hadnt given Mrs D enough  time to respond
when it contacted her about settling, and that Admiral took too long to settle  the claim. And
he didnt think £120 was enough  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this had
caused Mrs D. He suggested Admiral should  pay a further £80 on top of the £120  theyd
already paid. Admiral  accepted the investigators view. But Mrs D didnt, so she asked for an
ombudsman to make a decision.
To date Mrs Ds vehicle hasnt been repaired. Mrs D has comprehensive cover. Mrs Ds son
stated that due to the £350 excess theyve decided that they may get the car repaired
themselves. They werent aware that if the claim had been  settled 50/50, they could
potentially receive  50% (£175) of the excess back form the third partys insurer.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision Im going to look at the following points, as I consider these are the key ones:
Was Mrs D disadvantaged  when  Admiral dealt with her claim on a fault basis?
Has Admiral compensated  Mrs D sufficiently  for the distress and inconvenience  she
            experienced  as a result of them failing  to give her enough time to respond and for
            taking over a year to settle  the claim?
Under the terms and conditions  of Mrs Ds policy  Admiral are entitled to
Conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim  on Mrs Ds behalf.
Admit negligence  for any accident  or claim on Mrs Ds behalf.
This means  Admiral was entitled under the terms and conditions of the policy to settle the
claim on a full fault basis. Nevertheless,  Ive also considered if Admirals  actions  were  fair
and reasonable to Mrs D in all the circumstances.
When a motor insurer is contacted by a customer after an accident, Id expect them to assist
their customer by making reasonable efforts to gather all relevant evidence,  and deal with
the claim promptly. I wouldnt  expect the insurer to make a decision  on a claim until theyd
assessed all the available  relevant evidence. Mrs D told Admiral  in May 2018 that the third
party claimed to have a dash cam. In May 2018 Admiral asked the third partys insurer for
the footage. However, there  is no record of Admiral receiving the footage or even making
further enquiries about it.
Although the third party or the insurer could not be compelled to provide the dash cam
footage, I think Admiral should  have made  greater  efforts to secure this evidence,  as it may
have supported Mrs Ds account  of the accident  and helped to decide  fault.  So, Admiral
didnt do what Id have  expected them to do when dealing  with the claim against Mrs D.
Ref: DRN11101383But Im satisfied that Admiral properly  reviewed their decision in June 2019 and acted
reasonably when they accepted theyd got it wrong by settling  the third partys claim so
quickly and without a thorough enough investigation. They  made the point that whether  the
claim was recorded as a 50/50 split liability decision, or a full liability  decision claim it would
appear as a fault claim on Mrs Ds record with them,  and on the central database for claims
information called the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE). It is in fact recorded on the
CUE as bonus  disallowed (and this is often referred to as fault). But Admiral are right that
it would  have been recorded  like this even  if it had been settled 50/50.
So, Admiral  accepts more  effort should have been made, and that they should have fought
for 50/50 settlement. And I think if Admiral had done this, a 50/50 settlement with the third
partys insurer  would have  been the likely  outcome, even without dash cam footage.  This is
because the circumstances of the accident  suggest  this, and Admirals claim handlers felt
this was the most likely  outcome.
While this would still have  resulted in the claim being recorded as a fault claim against
Mrs D, it would also have meant that if Mrs D made a claim with Admiral  to have her own car
repaired, she could  have recoup 50% of her £350  excess from the third partys insurer. And
the amount recorded against  her on CUE  would have been half of what was actually
recorded. I appreciate  Mrs D could still pursue this with the third-party insurer and ultimately
through the courts,  as Admiral settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. But this
shouldnt have been necessary, and I think its highly unlikely the third-party  insurer  would
agree to pay 50% of Mrs Ds excess now. But I dont see any reason why they wouldnt have
refunded half of Mrs Ds excess if it had agreed  a 50/50 settlement with Admiral. So, I think
as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint Mrs D needs to be compensated
for this.
This means  to put Mrs D in the position she would have been  in if Admiral had fought for a
50/50 settlement,  Admiral  should reduce Mrs Ds excess by 50% if she decides to make  a
claim under her policy, and they accept it. The claim looks straightforward,  but it will of
course need to be considered under the terms and conditions  of Mrs Ds policy.
Unfortunately, the amount recorded  on CUE  cant be changed due to the rules  that apply to
this database,  as the amount entered on it must reflect the actual amount spent by Admiral
to settle the claim. But I accept this has caused  Mrs D distress  and inconvenience.
As Ive already  explained, Admiral has paid Mrs D £120 for the distress and inconvenience
she experienced as a result of the inappropriate way they handled her claim. And I
understand why theyve  done this. And I can totally understand how stressful  it must have
been for Mrs D when she found  that shed missed  the deadline to contact  Admiral  and hadnt
been given a reasonable amount of time to comment.
Admiral has said that even in a disputed liability case a year is too long to investigate and
agree a settlement. And I also agree  with Admiral here and again fully understand how
stressful it must have been for Mrs D having this claim outstanding for so long.
And I think this combined with the fact that Mrs D now has a full fault claim on her record  for
a higher amount than should  have been the case has caused her a great  deal of distress
and inconvenience.  And I agree with our investigator that the £120  Admiral has paid isnt
enough to compensate Mrs D properly for this. Its obviously difficult to put a figure on this
sort of thing, but Im satisfied  based  on the impact it had on Mrs D, that an overall amount
of £200 is fair and reasonable;  so, a further £80.
Ref: DRN11101384my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and require Admiral
Insurance Company Limited  to
Pay Mrs D a further £80 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Mrs D makes a claim  to Admiral to have  her car repaired and its settled by
            Admiral, then Admiral should reduce  Mrs Ds excess by 50% from £350  to £175. If
            Mrs D doesnt make a claim to have  her car repaired, then Admiral wont  need to
            take any action in relation to the excess.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Neither Mrs D or Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited had any further  information  for me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided me with any new information to consider. I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mrs Ds complaint and 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to
Pay Mrs D a further £80 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Mrs D makes a claim  to Admiral to have  her car repaired and its settled by
Admiral, then Admiral should reduce Mrs Ds excess by 50% from £350 to £175. If
Mrs D doesnt make a claim to have her car repaired, then Admiral  wont need  to
take any action  in relation to the excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1110138