K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited  (LV) 
handled his claim  under his motor insurance policy and about the renewal  premium.
background
In August  2017,  Mr S was involved in a road traffic accident which  he believed was the fault 
of the other party. He reported it to LV shortly  afterwards.
In January 2018, Mr S received an invitation  from LV to renew his policy. He noted  the 
premium had increased by over 90% even though he had paid an additional premium to 
protect his no claims discount (NCD). He queried the increase with LV.
LV explained  that the main reason for the increased  premium was the August 2017 claim, 
which was still open. It said that if Mr S was to re-insure with it and the claim were eventually 
resolved as non-fault, meaning that the full costs were met by the other party,  it would 
recalculate his premium and refund him any difference. 
Mr S was unhappy at LVs response. He referred his complaint to us. He said that LV had 
failed to handle  the claim properly and if it had done  so the claim would have already 
resolved in his favour. He believed the renewal premium to be excessive and in view of this 
considered he had been misled into paying  extra to protect his NCD.
While the complaint was under investigation, Mr S contacted us to explain that instead of 
renewing his policy  with LV hed taken out a cheaper policy with another insurer.  However, 
this had subsequently had to be cancelled because the information about the accident which 
he gave to the other insurer  conflicted with the information which LV had recorded  on an 
industry database. He said he had then taken out a new policy with LV at a considerably 
cheaper price than it had offered him at renewal. He considered it was LVs fault that his 
policy with the other  insurer had been cancelled. He furthermore thought  the cheaper price  
he had now obtained  showed that LVs renewal quote was excessive.   
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He considered that 
LV had handled the claim properly and it wasnt unreasonable  that it had still been  open at 
the time of the policys renewal given that the other party had contested liability. He was 
satisfied the renewal premium had been calculated fairly. He explained that claims were  
generally treated  as fault claims unless and until any outlay by the insurer had been  
recovered from the other party.  He therefore thought LV had recorded details on the industry 
database correctly.  He understood that the policy Mr S had recently obtained from LV was 
cheaper because  it had been issued  on the understanding  that Mr S wasnt  at fault for the 
claim. He noted  that the claim  had now been resolved as non-fault and the industry 
database had been amended accordingly.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He maintained that LV had been  unduly slow to 
deal with the claim. He said he had been completely confident  of recovering the money  from 
the third party  and had offered to do this at the outset but LV had chosen to continue  to 
resolve the matter  itself.  He said LV had led him to believe it had accepted  the claim was 
non-fault and this had caused him unwittingly to make a misrepresentation when he tried to 
take out cover with the other insurer. He considered the lower premium  he eventually 
obtained from LV was despite the fact his circumstances hadnt  changed  since its renewal 
quote and he said this showed the renewal quote  was unfairly high.
Ref: DRN16389412In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
If, following  his accident, Mr S was entirely  confident of recovering his costs from the other 
party he didnt need to involve LV but could  instead have pursued matters himself.  He didnt 
do this but instead chose  to make a claim under his policy.
The policy terms make  clear  that LV is entitled  to have  total control to conduct,  defend  and 
settle any claim. The policy terms also made clear that LV may take proceedings, in Mr Ss 
name, at its own expense and for its own benefit to recover any payment it has made.
LV settled the claim with Mr S and then sought  to recover its costs  from the other party. It 
was entitled to do this under the terms of the policy. However, until such  time as the matter  
was resolved, either through  the other party paying all of LVs costs or LV deciding to bear 
some/all of the costs  itself, the claim  would remain open. And in accordance with standard  
industry procedure, the claim was in the meantime  recorded as fault, meaning not 
necessarily that Mr S was to blame but that LV had incurred  expense which it hadnt 
recovered. Im satisfied that LV was correct in initially recording the claim in this way on the 
industry database. 
LV has provided  details  of how it processed  the claim. The other  party disputed liability  and 
offered a 50:50  settlement  which LV rejected. LV told Mr S of this in September  2017.  LV 
therefore had to instruct a solicitor which it told Mr S about in October 2017. The other  party 
eventually agreed  to pay all costs. Im satisfied  that LV handled the claim  reasonably and 
there were no undue delays.
I cant see that LV ever led Mr S to believe it had treated his claim as non-fault before it 
had recovered  its costs. Indeed, when he took out the policy  with the other insurer and 
apparently made his inadvertent misrepresentation, he had recently  been  advised by LV that 
his claim was still being treated as fault. I therefore dont think  LV can be held responsible 
for that misrepresentation. If Mr S thinks the other insurer cancelled  his policy  unfairly, he 
needs to take the matter up with that other  insurer.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises its discretion fairly and consistently, in line with its internal 
guidelines, it is a matter with which we wouldnt normally  interfere. LV has provided  details  of 
how it calculated Mr Ss renewal premium. I cant share this information with him because  it 
is commercially sensitive.  However, I can assure him I am satisfied  it has calculated his 
premium fairly. Mr S has pointed  out that he had paid extra to protect his NCD. However, 
while this ensured  his NCD wasnt reduced  as a result of a claim, it didnt mean his premium  
wouldnt increase.  This was made  clear  both in the policy document  and renewal  document.
LV explained  to Mr S that one of the main reasons for the increase in premium was the open  
claim. It confirmed that if he renewed  with it and the claim was subsequently resolved as 
non-fault, it would recalculate his premium and refund him any difference. This is in 
accordance with standard industry practice and I consider it to be fair.
Ref: DRN16389413Mr S points out that he has since taken out insurance with LV for a much cheaper  price than 
he was quoted at renewal. However,  when applying for the new policy he apparently didnt 
tell LV that he had an open fault claim.  As explained  above, this clearly  would impact on the 
premium. I dont think the difference in price  means  that Mr S was quoted an unfair price at 
renewal. 
In the event, LV has now recovered all its costs from the third party and has closed the claim 
as non-fault. It has amended the industry database accordingly. Im satisfied that LV 
doesnt need to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1638941