K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about TSB Bank  plc not allowing Mrs H to make payments 
to their two joint accounts. This has impacted Mrs Hs credit  file and she feels it has resulted 
in her not being able to access credit. The complaint has been brought to us by Mrs H so I 
shall mainly refer to her for ease of reading.
background
Mr and Mrs H held two joint accounts with TSB. In 2017 Mr H entered a Trust Deed; 
following this Mrs H said she was unable to make payments to her accounts  which  resulted 
in charges and interest being  applied.  This was despite going to her branch on several 
occasions to try and make  payments to the accounts.
Mrs H complained to TSB who upheld  her complaint. They apologised for freezing her 
accounts and to put things right they amended  her credit file, refunded  any charges and 
interest shed incurred on the frozen  accounts  plus interest, paid £50 for expenses and £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shed experienced. 
Mrs H didnt believe the compensation  was enough.  She said because of the impact to her 
credit rating shed been unable to get any loans or balance transfers  for her credit cards. 
This meant she incurred  unnecessary interest  which she estimated to be £3,800.
We asked TSB for information and they reviewed their original response.  They  felt their 
original response was incorrect. In their opinion Mrs H shouldve been aware she was liable 
for the full debt because they confirmed  this to her in 2017. They  also said there were  no 
notes to suggest Mrs H was stopped from making a full repayment of the debt. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Hs complaint and he thought  TSB had done  
enough. He thought he couldnt reasonably say the information reported by TSB on Mrs Hs 
credit file was the sole reason she was rejected for further credit. He explained that credit 
reference agencies  relied on a number  of factors when calculating a consumers credit 
rating. He thought Mrs Hs financial association with Mr H had  given his entry into the trust 
deed  possibly affected her ability to gain credit.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. She clarified that she hadnt said she couldnt pay 
the accounts off in full, shed said she couldnt  make  regular payments to keep the accounts 
within the agreed overdraft limits.  She also said that since her credit  file had been amended, 
she had received a 0% balance transfer  offer and her credit score  had gone from 645 to 999. 
She asked  for an ombudsman to review the case and issue  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr and Mrs H. Having reviewed the case,  I wont be recommending further 
compensation for this complaint. I can understand this is likely  to come as a disappointment 
to Mr and Mrs H but I hope my findings  help them to understand why Ive reached this 
decision.
Ref: DRN10920992Mrs H has said she tried on a number of occasions to make  payments to the accounts but 
was unable to. She repaid the smaller  of the two accounts in full in May 2018. The account 
was then closed.  She also made a payment of £50 to the larger  account  on the same day. 
Shes said this was the only time she was allowed to make a payment to the account. There  
were no further payments  to the remaining account until it was repaid in full in January 2019.  
Mr H has told us the funds came from the sale of one of Mrs Hs assets and she wasnt 
previously in a position  to repay the account in full.
Ive read the notes  that TSB have submitted and taken into account Mrs Hs recollection of 
what happened at the time. TSBs  notes  suggest  that Mrs H was told she was able to repay  
the accounts in full if she had the funds to do so. And if this wasnt possible then a specialist 
team would contact  her to discuss a payment plan. Mrs H has confirmed she wasnt able to 
repay both the accounts in full, but she wasnt contacted to discuss a payment plan. I 
appreciate this wasnt ideal and wouldve caused  Mrs H some  frustration.  
Ive considered if Mrs Hs ability to obtain credit  was solely due to her not being  able to make 
a payment arrangement on the two joint accounts  she held with Mr H. Having done so, Im 
not satisfied that this is the case. Businesses  take into account a number of factors when 
granting credit. This includes the overall  level of debt, payment history, financially linked 
persons and other factors.
Mrs Hs financial  association with her husband,  given his entry  into a trust deed,  could mean  
a much greater pressure being brought  to bear on her. Creditors  could require immediate 
repayment of any joint borrowing,  and they might  also have concerns over any reduction in 
the available  household  disposable income. I cant avoid the possibility that this would have 
impacted any decision  to offer Mrs H credit. So I cant fairly say any adverse information on 
Mrs Hs credit file relating to her inability to deposit  money to the joint accounts was the sole 
reason for her not being able to obtain credit. 
Mrs H has said shes now been able to transfer her credit cards to accounts  with lower 
interest rates. Shes provided copies of her credit  reports  from June  2018  and April 2019. 
Both reports show adverse markers on the larger  of the two joint accounts. This was 
because the account was over its agreed  overdraft  facility.  Ive then considered  the impact to 
Mrs H. Shes  said she was previously unable to obtain any loans or 0% balance transfers for 
her credit cards. However, I can only see details of one search  related to an application for 
credit, made in April 2019. 
So even if I thought TSB were solely at fault for any impact to Mrs Hs credit  file, I cant  see 
where she has made any applications for credit apart from in April 2019.  And because  TSB 
then amended her credit  file in April 2019,  Im satisfied any impact from not being able to pay 
into the account has now been resolved. 
TSB have  apologised for freezing the accounts. Theyve refunded all the debit interest Mrs H 
has incurred, even  though shes said she wasnt able to repay the account in full. And 
theyve paid expenses  and compensation in line with what I would expect. So overall, I think  
theyve done enough to resolve this complaint. I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN10920993my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1092099