K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt  considered  his claim  for 
unemployment benefit fairly.  
This decision only decides Mr Ks complaint against Great Lakes, his other but similar 
complaint against  another company, will be sent separately.
background
Mr K took out a policy with Great Lakes in 2016  and was renewed annually.  The policy 
provided unemployment cover of £2,500  a month  for a period of 12 months. The premium  
was £108.50.  
In October  2017 Mr Ks employment  was terminated due to misconduct. Mr K started 
employment tribunal  proceedings  against  his former employer, but the matter was settled 
between the parties  through  a settlement agreement. 
Mr K subsequently made a claim for unemployment benefit with Great  Lakes (and another 
company). Mr K didnt provide the information  requested as he was concerned  about 
breaching the agreement  and so Great Lakes was unable to progress  the claim. Mr K 
complained but didnt  receive a response  and so he asked us to look into the matter. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt  uphold it. She was satisfied Great  
Lakes was entitled to ask for information  to validate  the claim. And since  then Great Lakes 
had discovered  the reason for the employment ending  and explained that was excluded.     
Mr K has asked  for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. Mr K believes the 
termination letter citing misconduct is fraudulent, his solicitor confirmed there  was no gross  
misconduct and hes unhappy  hes continued  to pay premiums. 
The investigator explained any issues about the premiums would need to be raised as a 
separate matter  with Great  Lakes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy  with Great Lakes does provide unemployment cover.  So on the face of it his 
claim is potentially covered. But the starting  point is the contract between Mr K and Great  
Lakes, the policy document.  That says, under General Policy  Conditions & Exclusions:
i)We will not pay claims where  you are unwilling or unable to provide us with all the 
necessary information that we require in order  to validate your claim and 
throughout the duration of your claim.  
Im not persuaded Great Lakes was acting  unfairly in asking for information  about Mr Ks 
unemployment; particularly as there  are certain situations where a claim for unemployment 
benefit isnt covered. Its right for Great Lakes to seek information  to ensure the event 
claimed for is actually  covered under the terms of the policy  and its Mr Ks responsibility to 
comply with that.
Ref: DRN17920202Under Whats not covered the policy says:
i)Claims where your unemployment is due to you breaching your employers  conduct  
code, including  fraud, dishonesty and breach of contract,  or where your 
unemployment is due to your employer taking disciplinary action against you. 
I have seen Mr Ks termination letter from his other complaint. And Im aware Great  Lakes is 
also aware of his reason for unemployment. The letter explained Mr Ks employment was 
terminated due to his conduct in the management of the company being likely  to damage the 
company or bring it into disrepute  and which amounted to gross misconduct. Im satisfied the 
reasons given in the letter  are excluded under the terms of the policy.  
Mr K started proceedings to take his former employer to tribunal over the termination. But 
they reached a settlement outside  of that process.  Mr K is of the belief this agreement 
supersedes anything that went  before.  Im afraid  I dont agree. The agreement  clearly sets 
out there is no admission  of liability on the part of the former employer and so Im not 
persuaded there has been any retraction of misconduct as a reason for Mr Ks employment 
being terminated. Employers decide  to settle  outside of tribunals for many  different reasons 
and the existence of the agreement itself isnt sufficient evidence the reason for the 
termination no longer stands.  
In the circumstances, I find Great Lakes has considered the claim fairly and reasonably.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1792020