K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  treat them fairly at the end of the 
term of their interest only mortgage, and in particular didnt agree to extend the term to Mr S 
retirement date in May 2019.
background 
Mr and Mrs S had an interest only mortgage with Barclays. It was split into two 
sub-accounts, one of which reached  the end of the term in 2014 and the other  in 2015. Mr 
and Mrs S asked Barclays to extend  the term in 2014, but it wouldnt do so on affordability 
grounds  it said Mr S was newly self-employed  and didnt have adequate proof of his 
income.
Mr and Mrs S made further applications  to extend the term in 2015  and 2016.  They  say they 
had various sources  of funds to repay the mortgage  at the end of the extended  term  
including pension lump  sums, the sale of Mrs S late mothers property, and some savings 
and investments. And they intended to sell their property and downsize on Mr S retirement, 
so the balance would be able to be repaid  then.  They pointed  out that there was substantial  
equity in the property, so there was little or no risk to Barclays.
Barclays again refused  their applications. It said it hadnt received satisfactory evidence of 
the repayment strategies. It said the property  could be sold now, and Mr and Mrs S were 
choosing to delay.  It said it couldnt  extend  the term of an expired mortgage   it could just 
offer short stays while the property was on the market.
As a result, Mr and Mrs S put their property on the market. But instead of selling they re-
mortgaged to another lender. They complain  that the term should have been  extended.  In 
moving their mortgage, theyve paid various fees  and have had to pay more  interest than 
the low rate base  rate tracker they had with Barclays.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs S asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it. I issued a provisional  decision  explaining  why I thought  the case 
should be upheld.  I said:
Mr S has made reference to the rules  of mortgage  regulation as part of his 
arguments that he and Mrs S werent fairly treated. So Ill set out my understanding  
of the relevant rules here.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets out in its rules that it 
expects stringent assessments of both affordability  and, for interest  only mortgages, 
repayment strategy,  before lenders  agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
However, there are two exceptions to this requirement. In the case of affordability, 
where an existing  mortgage  is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to 
be material to affordability, an affordability  assessment is not required.  
And, if that rule doesnt apply (for example, because there is a material change), 
theres still no need to carry out an affordability  assessment  provided  the loan 
balance hasnt increased since 2014  and the proposed change is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests. Similar provisions apply to the assessment of repayment  
strategy.
Ref: DRN11357212Its important to note, though, that these rules  dont oblige lenders to make changes  
to mortgages. They  merely say that changes dont  have  to be refused   if the criteria 
are met  on grounds  of affordability or interest only repayment strategy. Changes 
can still fairly be refused  on other grounds   though lenders are always subject to the 
requirement to act fairly, taking into account their customers best interests.
Its also worth noting  again,  as Mr S has pointed out  that the FCA has issued 
guidance to lenders about the need  to engage  pro-actively  with borrowers of interest 
only mortgages, working with them to try to make sure the mortgage  can be repaid.
Applying those rules to this complaint,  then,  I dont think it was fair for Barclays  to 
refuse the 2014  application on grounds of affordability. Mr and Mrs S werent 
applying to make a change to their mortgage which was material  to affordability,  and 
so there  was no need  under the rules   for Barclays to carry out an affordability  
assessment.
The 2015  and 2016 applications seem  largely to have been rejected on the grounds 
of lack of evidence of a viable repayment  strategy. Barclays wasnt persuaded by the 
evidence Mr and Mrs S provided. 
As Ive set out above, theres  no need  to assess  repayment  strategy   if the 
proposed change is otherwise in the borrowers best interests.
It seems  to me that this is the crucial point in this case. Even if the 2014 application 
was unfairly refused on affordability grounds, that doesnt mean it should have been 
granted. And there  should have been  more  consideration  of best interests  with 
respect to the 2015 and 2016 applications. And, as well as whats in Mr and Mrs Ss 
best interests, I also have  to take into account  the wider interests  of fairness to both 
parties  not least Barclays right to be repaid money it has lent on time as agreed.
There are competing considerations here,  then. Barclays has a right to expect its 
money to be repaid  and thats  what Mr and Mrs S agreed they would do when they 
took the mortgage out.
On the other hand, their circumstances have  changed considerably since  then. Mr S 
has explained that in the financial crisis he lost his job, and their substantial 
investments that were  intended to repay the mortgage greatly diminished in value. 
But by 2014 he had found another job, and intended  to carry on working until his 
retirement in 2019. 
Their plans had changed  and had to change  because  of what  happened to their 
finances from around 2008.  Mr and Mrs S needed to find an alternative means of 
repaying their mortgage. It seems  from their finances that, realistically, the only 
means of doing  that, before 2019,  was selling  the property. Mr S has a pension, but 
there are tax implications  if he draws  it down early  as well as the impact  on his 
retirement income. Mrs S has the proceeds  of the sale of her mothers  property   but 
thats rather less than the full mortgage balance.
At the same time, Mr and Mrs S have made  clear  that they are prepared  to sell their 
property if they have to. When  Barclays refused their term extension  applications,  
they put it on the market  though because they were  able to re-mortgage to another 
Ref: DRN11357213provider, they didnt end up selling it. Theyve  been clear throughout this complaint  
that they intend to downsize and repay the mortgage on Mr S retirement later this 
year  and thats  the repayment  strategy for the new mortgage  theyve had to take 
out.
Ive said Barclays doesnt have to carry out an assessment of repayment strategy. 
But, in my view, it wouldnt be in Mr and Mrs S best interests to extend the term 
without considering that at all  since the mortgage  would  always  have to be repaid 
somehow.
However, Mr and Mrs S do have a strategy  to repay their mortgage in 2019. 
Following the changes to their finances, they had to revisit their plans. Mr S decided  
to work longer  and wanted to align the sale of the property, and the repayment of the 
mortgage, with his retirement  date in May 2019.  In my view thats  not unreasonable 
and would have  been in their best interests for Barclays to allow.
I think Barclays could, and reasonably should,  have allowed Mr and Mrs S to extend  
the term of their mortgage until May 2019.  So thats the position I think  Barclays  
should put them back into. Theyve  now redeemed the mortgage and gone  
elsewhere  which wouldnt have been  necessary if Barclays had extended the term. 
I think Barclays should refund the costs of moving  their mortgage elsewhere, as well 
as the additional interest  Mr and Mrs S have had to pay between the end of their 
Barclays mortgage and May 2019. 
So that these  figures  can be calculated, I would  like Mr and Mrs S to provide 
evidence for any costs incurred in moving  their mortgage, and a copy  of their new 
mortgage offer, when  they reply to this provisional decision. Subject to that evidence,  
and to any further arguments either party might make, I intend to uphold this 
complaint. 
Barclays accepted  my decision. It agreed  to cover  the costs of Mr and Mrs S re-mortgaging 
elsewhere, subject  to evidence. It said that if it had agreed to extend the term of the 
mortgage, it would have required Mr and Mrs S to move off their lifetime tracker rate and 
select a new product. So any calculation about the difference in payments should be based 
on the interest they would  have had to take if Barclays had offered them  a term extension,  
not the lifetime  tracker.
Mr and Mrs S provided evidence of some  of the additional  costs theyd incurred as a result  of 
moving their mortgage. They also said I should require Barclays  to pay them additional 
compensation for the considerable upset it had caused, particularly to Mrs S  in addition to 
the £150 it had already offered.
I therefore contacted  both parties  to set out my thinking around what my final award should 
be and to invite further comment.
Barclays accepted  the additional  costs Mr and Mrs S provided  evidence of. I said I was 
minded to require  it to pay further compensation as well. Mr and Mrs S didnt think that the 
compensation Barclays has already paid reflects the upset caused by the refusal  to extend 
the term of their mortgage.  In particular, they said, Mrs S was very distressed by the refusal  
to extend the term, the tone of letters they received, and the very real worry that they might  
lose their home.
Ref: DRN11357214Having considered matters further,  I agreed that further compensation for their trouble and 
upset would be fair. Ive explained that I think Barclays  fairly  should have agreed to extend  
the term of the mortgage. The failure  to do so caused Mrs S in particular considerable 
distress, and caused Mr and Mrs S the expense  and inconvenience of moving  their 
mortgage elsewhere. In the circumstances I thought a further £350 compensation would be 
fair. Barclays accepted  that. 
I also said that I thought  Barclays should pay the difference between the interest rate on Mr 
and Mrs Ss new mortgage and their lower Barclays rate. Their Barclays  mortgage was on a 
lifetime tracker rate, and although the term of the mortgage had expired, it continued to 
charge them  the same  lifetime tracker interest rate for the next two years while the 2015  and 
2016 applications were ongoing. Id seen nothing to suggest that the interest rate had to end 
at the expiry of the initial term  and, in fact, it didnt. So I thought it would be fair to base the 
comparison on the new interest rate Mr and Mrs S took with their new lender, against  the 
lifetime tracker rate they had with Barclays.
Barclays didnt agree with that. It said Mr and Mrs S mortgage  had come to the end of its 
term and so the lifetime  interest rate had expired. It had continued to charge them  that rate 
while discussions about a way forward took place.  But if it had agreed to an extension, it 
would have required them  to take a new interest rate product  and so the comparison with 
the new lender  should be based in the interest rate they would have taken if theyd stayed 
with Barclays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased both parties now accept  that it would have been fair for Barclays to have 
extended the term of Mr and Mrs S mortgage.  I uphold this complaint for the reasons I gave 
in my provisional decision.  
The issue  left for me to decide is what Barclays needs to do to put matters right. Barclays 
agrees it should  pay the costs of Mr and Mrs S going elsewhere. Their  new mortgage offer 
shows they paid:
£945 product  fee;
£175 application fee;
£1,495 arrangement fee;
£225 valuation  fee  since  refunded by the lender as an incentive, so this fee need 
not be included  in Barclays refund
They also paid a £100 exit fee to Barclays. As their new mortgage also contains  a £100 exit 
fee, this is now something theyll have to pay twice, so the Barclays exit fee should  be 
refunded. 
I dont include the £1,300  early repayment charge Mr and Mrs S will pay their new lender  
should they sell their property in 2019 as planned  and indeed  Mr S conceded  it probably  
couldnt be included.  Although the ERC will apply until 2020, thats because Mr and Mrs S 
selected a five year fixed rate. I have no evidence  that they couldnt have selected a shorter  
rate. 
Ref: DRN11357215Both parties  accept the additional £350 compensation I said should be paid. So that leaves  
the only issue to be resolved  as the interest  rate it would be fair to use as the comparison 
between what Mr and Mrs S are paying to their new lender and what they would have paid 
had Barclays extended their mortgage.
Barclays has shown me its internal policy, and it says that where  theres a term extension  on 
a mortgage without an early repayment  charge (ERC),  a new interest rate must be taken on 
extension. That covers Mr and Mrs S situation, and Barclays says means that they would 
have had to have taken a new interest  rate, not continued on their lifetime  tracker.
I accept that this is Barclays policy. But thats  not the end of the matter; I have to decide  
what I consider to be fair in all the circumstances. Mr and Mrs S had a lifetime  tracker rate. It 
could be argued  that if they extended the life of the mortgage, it follows that the tracker  rate 
extends too. I also bear in mind that one of Barclays reasons for refusing the extension  in 
2014 was that it didnt  consider the extended term affordable   its difficult  for it to argue now 
that increasing the interest rate (and so the monthly  payments) would have been fair at that 
time if it didnt consider  the lower  rate affordable. Barclays in fact allowed the tracker  rate to 
continue beyond the expiry of the original term while discussions continued. I can 
understand why, when  its granting  a longer term extension or a re-mortgage, it would 
consider whether circumstances have changed  from when the mortgage  was first taken out. 
But in the particular circumstances of this individual case, where a relatively short term 
extension was needed to allow Mr and Mrs S to reach the time when they could put their 
repayment strategy into effect, I think it would have been fair to allow the existing  rate to 
continue. So that should be the basis of the calculation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund the exit and set up costs of Mr and Mrs S new mortgage, itemised above but 
excluding the refunded valuation,  adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from 
date of payment  to date of settlement;
Refund the difference between the monthly  payments  on the old mortgage, and the 
monthly payments  on the new mortgage  based  on the new balance  of £130,000  
between redemption of the old mortgage  and the end of May 2019, adding simple  
annual interest of 8% running from the date of each payment to date of settlement. 
The calculation should be based on the old lifetime tracker  and the new fixed rate of 
2.79%.
Pay Mr and Mrs S a further £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If Barclays considers  it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element  of my award it may do so, but 
should give Mr and Mrs S the necessary  certificate, if they ask for it, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
theyre entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN1135721