K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading  as Barclays  Partner 
Finance) (BPF) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
background
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement in August 2015 to acquire a car. He says 
that he had visited  the dealership to enquire  about a car and had intended to pay for it using 
his savings and money  borrowed from family. He says the dealership  pressured him into 
buying the car and entering  into the finance agreement with BPF. He says the agreement  
wasnt explained to him and it wasnt made clear how much he would be required to pay in 
total. 
Mr M says that when he entered into the agreement he was a student  with no income and 
was relying on his parents and a student  loan. The repayments under the agreement were  
£449 each month which  he says he couldnt afford. He says that his direct debit was 
reversed twice in December 2015 because  he didnt have the money to make  the payment. 
In May 2017, Mr M says a family member made the final payment  under the agreement  and 
he had to sell the car in order  to repay  them. He says he had to use credit  cards and payday 
loans to meet his outgoings including the repayments under this agreement.  He says he 
contacted BPF to say he was struggling  to make a particular  payment and the date was 
moved so that his student loan would  be able to cover it which he says showed BPF was 
aware he as a student.
BPF says that Mr M entered into the conditional sale agreement and in doing  so agreed to 
its terms. The agreement was for three years but repaid early  in May 2017. It says that Mr M 
never informed it of any financial difficulties and that the only payment that was missed  was 
in December 2015. It says that it contacted Mr M about this and he said he had returned 
from holiday and wasnt sure why the payment had been declined.  A payment was made to 
rectify this on 4 January 2016. 
BPF says that Mr M contacted it in April 2016 saying he had been  paid less by his employer 
and it was agreed his payment date would  be changed.
Before providing  the finance BPF says that it gathered information about  Mr Ms 
employment, income and credit commitments.  It says that based on the information  provided 
Mr Ms application was approved.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought  that BPF had carried  out 
appropriate checks before  providing  the finance  and that based  on the information provided 
the repayments due were  affordable. She said that had Mr M been pressured  into the 
agreement she would  have expected  him to raise  this sooner and that the agreement set out 
the costs of the finance so she didnt  agree  that Mr M wasnt provided with the information  
he needed.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said that BPF hadnt proved that it had verified 
his income or carried out a credit  check.
Ref: DRN12225572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a car. He has complained that he 
was pressured  into taking the finance when he had intended to use his own funds and 
borrow from family. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr M was pressured into the 
finance and had this been the case I would have  expected him to have either  withdrawn from 
the agreement  within the period allowed or raised  his complaint at that time. Based on the 
information I have  I do not find I can uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr M has also said that he wasnt  aware  of all the costs involved and how much he would 
end up paying  for the car. I have looked through the agreement  that Mr M signed and the pre 
contract information provided and this clearly sets out the payment amounts and the costs  
involved. Therefore  I find that Mr M did have the information he needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to enter  into the agreement.
A key part of Mr Ms complaint is that the agreement was unaffordable.  He says that 
adequate checks  werent carried out before the finance was provided and that had these 
taken place BPF would  have realised the repayments were unaffordable.
Before providing  finance,  BPF had to ensure that adequate and proportionate checks were  
carried out. There is not a set of required checks but BPF had to assess issues  such as 
credit worthiness and affordability. 
I have looked  through  the information that was provided before the finance was agreed. This 
shows that Mr M was employed  with an annual income of £42,000.  Mr M has said that his 
income wasnt verified. I appreciate his comments but also note that Mr M was required to 
provide accurate information. I have looked  at Mr Ms bank statements from before the 
finance was provided and can see that in June and July 2015, he received payments of just 
under £1,500 from his recorded  employer. Payment from this source continued after he 
entered into the agreement. While this suggests a lower income that Mr M had declared, had 
this information  been received I dont find that this meant BPF should  have considered the 
finance unaffordable. 
Credit information was gathered and, while this was reasonably limited,  based on what  I 
have seen I dont  think that this should  have raised any concerns. I havent seen evidence of 
an expenses breakdown however I note that Mr M said he was living with his parents. I note 
that a tenancy  agreement  was provided  but as this is dated after the finance  was agreed I 
wouldnt expect this to be taken into account.
I understand that Mr M believes further checks should have been carried out, but I think  that 
BPF did undertake  reasonable  checks. As these didnt raised concerns about the 
affordability of the finance I dont think it was required  to carry out further checks. 
Mr M maintained his repayments  and while I note the missed payment in December 2015,  
this was corrected  and Mr M didnt raise  any affordability concerns at that time.
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  evidence to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN12225573my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222557