K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building  Society allowed a fraudulent  direct debit to 
be set up on their account and that it didnt have a policy to prevent this happening, even 
after it had happened  a number of times.
background
A third party  set up a direct debit on Mr and Mrs Ds account. They used Mr and Mrs Ds 
account number  and sort code, but a different  name and address. When Mr and Mrs D 
spotted what had happened, they told Nationwide and it refunded  them under the direct 
debit guarantee.
Ten days  later another  payment was made from Mr and Mrs Ds account in the same  way. 
Again Nationwide refunded Mr and Mrs D under  the direct debit guarantee.
Mr and Mrs D were concerned about  the security of their account. They spoke to Nationwide 
by phone and in branch. They agreed that a new account should be opened.  But that was 
delayed because of some IT problems.  Nationwide said it would check the account  daily 
while it was waiting for the new account  to be opened.
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide failed to adequately secure  their account against 
fraud and that it didnt  have any procedures in place to prevent it happening once it was 
aware their account details had been  compromised. They want Nationwide to update its 
procedures and compensate them for the time and stress this matter has caused them. 
Nationwide accepted it had given a poor service and offered Mr and Mrs D £150  for the 
delay in opening the account and related issues.
Our investigator said that Nationwide wasnt required  to do any more when setting up direct 
debits. But it had a responsibility to help Mr and Mrs D secure their account  once  it was 
aware of the unauthorised direct debits.  While  the steps eventually taken by Nationwide  to 
open a new account and manually check the open  account were reasonable, bearing in 
mind Mr and Mrs Ds concerns, it ought to have done that earlier and immediately after the 
second unauthorised direct  debit was set up. If Nationwide  had done  so, the impact in Mr 
and Mrs D would have  been lessened. He thought Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs D and 
additional £50 for the inconvenience this caused   so a total of £200.
Mr and Mrs D didnt think that £200  was sufficient and that they had been offered more  
compensation in similar  circumstances in another case.
Nationwide didnt accept  what  the investigator  said. It made a number of points, including  
that it wasnt its policy to offer a new account to prevent direct  debits  being  set up and 
Mr and Mrs D had the protection of the direct  debit guarantee.  The increase proposed by the 
investigator was only a slight increase  to what it had already  offered. And bearing  in mind 
the amount that Mr and Mrs D want its unlikely to be satisfactory to them. 
 
Ref: DRN16300152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant see that Nationwide made  a mistake in setting up the direct debits on the account 
using the account number  and sort code.  I accept and understand the worry that this caused  
Mr and Mrs D but Nationwide  isnt responsible  for that. And its not for me to tell Nationwide 
to change its policies  or procedures.  Rather, I look at what  happened  and decide what I think  
is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances  of this complaint.
Its clear that Nationwide was aware  at an early stage that Mr and Mrs D were particularly 
worried that their account details  had been compromised and about the security of their 
account. I agree that the eventual solution  was reasonable. But I also agree with the 
investigator that its not clear why this option couldnt have been explored  at an earlier  stage. 
I accept that this might not be Nationwides policy. But I think  it would  have been  reasonable 
in the circumstances here to offer a new account to Mr and Mrs D soon after the second  
unauthorised direct  debit.  If Nationwide  had done so, it would have saved Mr and Mrs D a 
material amount of time and worry.
Its not in dispute  that there  were  later delays in opening  the new account and related service 
issues. Ive carefully considered what happened and what  Mr and Mrs D have  told us about  
the worry, stress and inconvenience they experienced as a result of this matter. A large part 
of that was due to the unauthorised direct debits being set up. And Ive already found  that 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for that. But looking at all of the things Nationwide  was 
responsible for, I consider  it would be fair and reasonable  for it to pay Mr and Mrs D £200  to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience they suffered here.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  should pay Mr and Mrs D £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1630015