K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited didnt contact her after taking  over 
her debt with another company. Miss C also says Link recorded  a default on her credit file 
incorrectly. 
background
Miss C had a credit  card account with another business that was defaulted in February 2016 
and sold to Link around September 2016.
On checking her credit score in 2018,  Miss C saw it had fallen. Miss C contacted her credit 
reference agency (CRA).  The CRA said Link had recorded her account as in default on her 
credit file. Miss C says this affected  her credit  score and stopped her getting  credit 
elsewhere.
Miss C complained to Link,  saying  she hadnt been made aware it had bought  her credit  card 
debt. Miss C told Link it shouldnt have added a default to her account  her credit card 
company had already recorded  a default for the same debt. 
Link wrote  to Miss C saying it knew her credit  card provider defaulted the account in 
February 2016. Since Link took over the debt, its legally obliged to report  factual information 
about the account. Unhappy with this response, Miss C referred  her complaint to our service  
and provided a copy of her credit file, on which Link had recorded her account  as in default.
 
Link gave us its contact  notes, which say it sent text messages to Miss Cs mobile  number 
from October 2016. Link also wrote to Miss C in November 2016 at the address she lived at 
until December 2016. This letter said Link had bought Miss Cs debt and was prepared to 
honour the informal repayment arrangement Miss C had with her credit card provider. 
Links contact notes  say Miss C moved home  in January 2017.  And in October  2017,  Link 
linked Miss Cs account and wrote  to an address Miss C has never lived at. Link was alerted 
to this by a CRA in April 2018. Link said it had been  told in September 2017 that Miss C 
moved out of the address it previously wrote to November 2016. The new occupant of this 
address told Link Miss C had moved  to the address it wrote to in October  2017.  Link has 
since updated Miss Cs address.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint, saying  Link had sent text messages to 
Miss Cs mobile number and written  to her old address whilst she was still living there.  Our 
investigator thought  it was likely  Miss C received  Links letter  as it was correctly addressed 
and thought Link had taken reasonable steps  to contact her.
Our investigator didnt  think Link acted  incorrectly in writing to the address it was given in 
September 2017, as Miss C hadnt told Link shed moved and Link could only go on the 
information it had been given. Our investigator  was satisfied Link did all it could in the 
circumstances to contact  Miss C about her debt.
Miss C remained  of the view that Link used the wrong address and wanted Link to 
compromise on the debt she owed and the default on her credit file. Miss C also said she 
was now having  trouble  getting in touch with Link to agree how the debt should  be repaid. 
Our investigator explained Link is obliged to report factual information to credit reference 
agencies, so couldnt ask Link to compromise on the information  it recorded on her credit 
Ref: DRN10135712file. Our investigator said Link wasnt obliged to compromise on the debt owed but did have 
to engage with Miss C to agree an affordable repayment plan. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators opinion,  and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed Links contact notes which show the text messages and the letter  it sent to 
Miss C in October 2016, I think Link took all reasonable steps to make her aware  Link had 
taken over her credit card debt. I note the letter gave Miss C details about how to get in 
touch and make payments towards the debt. 
Miss C says she wouldve  paid the debt off sooner had she been made aware Link had 
taken over. As above, Link wrote  to Miss C and sent her text messages so I think it did 
enough to make her aware of the debt. Even if Miss C didnt receive Links  letter sent in 
October 2016, Link still sent her text messages and Miss C could also have contacted her 
credit card provider if she was still unsure who to contact.
After Link wrote to Miss C, it was given a new address to write to by a third party.  I 
understand this impacted Miss Cs credit file, as her debt was now linked to an address she 
didnt live at. But I dont  think  it was unreasonable Link used the new address, as it hadnt  
been updated by Miss C after its attempts  to contact her. And after as Miss C got in touch 
with Link, it amended her address. Miss C says her credit score improved as a result.
I know Miss C wants Link to compromise  on the default on her credit file and the amount she 
owes. Link recorded the default  on this account  as being registered in February  2016,  which  
is the date Miss Cs credit card provider defaulted her account. So it doesnt appear that Link 
has recorded any inaccurate information. Miss C provided a copy  of her credit  file. Having 
reviewed it, Links entry shows the same default date, default balance and account start date 
as the entry  made by Miss Cs credit card provider. So I think its clear the two entries  relate 
to the same  debt. And Link is obliged to record accurate information about Miss Cs account  
to credit reference agencies, so I wouldnt  ask it to remove any accurate information its 
recorded.
Link isnt obliged to accept less than the outstanding balance owed on Miss Cs account,  but 
it should engage with her to agree an affordable  repayment plan.  Miss C is still able to make 
a new complaint to Link should it fail to meet its obligations here. 
my final decision
I appreciate my decision is likely to disappoint Miss C, but I dont uphold  her complaint for 
the reasons explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1013571