K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined his home insurance claim for theft 
and voided (cancelled from the start) his policy. 
For ease, in my decision I will refer to UKI when  talking  about their agents or 
representatives.
background
Mr D had home insurance with UKI. In late 2018 he made a claim for some watches and 
other items, stating theyd  been stolen from his home. UKI refused to settle the claim under 
the fraud condition and cancelled his policy. 
The fraud condition  requires a policyholder to be honest in their dealings  with UKI. It states 
that if the insured person  attempts to deceive UKI or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated claim their policy  may be cancelled, their claim rejected, and premium kept. 
UKI said Mr D had deliberately provided inaccurate  information. In particular, it noted:
Mr D gave differing accounts about one of the watches (the stolen watch)  he was 
claiming for.
Mr D initially  said he had no previous insurance claims, but he had. One claim was 
for a watch (the lost watch) of the same  make and model as the stolen watch.  
Mr D had given differing accounts about the cash he was claiming for.
Mr D complained. He felt his words  had been twisted by UKI who were  attempting to avoid  
paying his claim. Mr D had provided  explanations  for the discrepancies which included:
Mr D was distressed following the break-in and his thoughts were all over the place.
Mr D initially  thought  he was being asked about previous insurance claims with UKI, 
not other insurance companies - he didnt think the previous  lost watch claim was 
relevant. 
Mr D simply made a mistake in how he described the stolen watch. 
But UKI didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr D came to us. Our investigator found UKI acted 
fairly in voiding the policy  given the number of discrepancies  in the information  Mr D 
provided. They didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed, so its been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On reviewing the evidence, in particular  the call recordings, I noted the following:
previous insurance  claims
Mr D had a previous claim from 2016 the lost watch and another  claim for a broken 
computer.
Ref: DRN16909112During his first call to UKI in late 2018,  Mr D was clearly asked have you or anyone who 
permanently lives with you at the property, have you made any claims on your home 
insurance in the last three years  that weve not been made aware  of? He said no. 
In a later call Mr D was asked more questions about his insurance claims in the last three 
years. He then told UKI about the broken computer. UKI asked him whether this was his only 
home insurance claim and he responded: eryeh that I can think of right now,  yeh I cant 
think of anything, thats relevant to this anyway. UKI then explained other claims can be 
relevant but Mr D didnt  mention the lost watch until later in that call. 
the stolen watch
During the first call to UKI, Mr D reported that the stolen watch was a gift from my father  
many years ago. In a later call, Mr D said his father had given him the stolen watch a very 
long time ago. Mr D also said: Ive had that watch,  Id say approximately 20 years, that was 
roughly how long ago it was I got it off him.
When Mr D told UKI about the lost watch, he said hed bought  it after the one I got from my 
father. Mr D then explained the lost watch had a date on the face and the stolen watch 
didnt, which  he again confirmed in a later call.
UKI were then sent evidence from Mr Ds previous  insurer showing hed told them he didnt 
have another  watch of the same make  as the lost watch. So, UKI contacted  Mr D about this. 
Mr D said he assumed  the previous insurer had asked if he ever bought  a watch  of the same  
make, which  he hadnt. But the call notes  indicate  Mr D was asked if he had or owned any 
other watches of the same make - he said no.
Mr D later told UKI the stolen watch wasnt assigned  to him when he made  the claim for the 
lost watch. He said it previously went to his brother and it was only within  the last year or so 
that the stolen  watch came more into his ownership,  but hed always assumed he would own 
it. Mr D said hed previously meant the watch was 20 years old, not that hed owned it for 20 
years.
my considerations 
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those I consider 
to be materially relevant to this complaint.  However, Ive given careful consideration to all of 
the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
For an insurer to allege fraud by its policyholder is a very serious  matter.  It means  that the 
cancellation of the policy will be registered on an insurance database and the fraud  may be 
registered on a fraud  database. 
For that reason,  UKI has to show that there  is strong evidence  that it is most likely that Mr D 
breached the fraud condition in the policy. So, Ive looked at some of the main areas of 
concern raised  by UKI about Mr Ds claim.  And having done  so, I think  UKI have acted  
reasonably here  Ill explain  my reasoning below. 
Its worth  noting that an insurer  can reject  or cancel a policy  on the grounds  of fraud if they 
have sufficient evidence  that part of the claim meets the fraud condition. And so, I dont 
intend to cover every aspect of UKIs concerns  in this decision. 
Ref: DRN16909113Mr D initially told UKI he hadnt had any previous insurance claims when he had
Under his insurance  policy, Mr D had a responsibility to be honest with UKI. Its clear there 
was a delay in the disclosure of this information.  UKI felt this was intentional despite Mr Ds 
explanations. So, Ive considered what he told them.  
Mr D told UKI he was very upset after this incident  and this may have impacted how he dealt 
with the claim. A home theft can be incredibly distressing. And I think its plausible  
someones recollections could be impacted in the immediate aftermath. Id expect an 
insurance company  to be mindful of this impact when assessing any claim. But Im not 
convinced this sufficiently  explains  the delay here.
Even if Mr Ds recollections were impacted by stress and upset, he did later tell UKI about 
the computer  claim when asked. But he still didnt mention  the lost watch.  Given  Mr D was 
now claiming for a watch of the same  make and model, I think  its likely he would have 
remembered the lost watch  claim.  So, I think its fair UKI have questioned why he mentioned 
one and not the other. 
And Ive then looked at what else Mr D has said about the delay:
That he didnt think the prior claims were  relevant
That he thought  UKI were asking about  claims with them,  not other insurers.
But neither  of these  points  explain why he mentioned the computer claim and not the lost 
watch claim. 
And given  how clear UKIs questions were, I also dont think  these reasons sufficiently 
explain why Mr D didnt give them information  about  his previous claims when directly asked. 
So again,  I dont  find this persuasive. 
I have also noted  that Mr D didnt declare any of his previous claims when he took out the 
policy, despite a question clearly asking if hed had any claims in the last three  years. 
And without  a reasonable explanation for not providing this information, I dont think  its 
unfair for UKI to conclude  that Mr D appeared to be intentionally avoiding informing them of 
his previous insurance claims.
Mr D had given differing accounts about one of the watches he was claiming  for
UKI also told us it was concerned that Mr D had changed his account, that hed done this 
after he was confronted with information  by UKI that challenged what hed said. And that 
there was a lack of evidence that the stolen watch ever existed.
Having listened  to the calls and read Mr Ds emails to UKI, I can see there  were  some 
significant changes  to what Mr D said about the stolen  watch.  
For example, Mr D repeatedly told UKI hed had the stolen watch  for many years, but later 
said the stolen  watch had only come into his possession within  the last year or so. 
Ive considered Mr Ds explanation  for this - that the stolen watch had been in the family for 
20 years  but wasnt actually in his possession. But this doesnt match what he told UKI in the 
earlier calls. Mr D clearly said hed had the stolen watch  for around  20 years, and that he 
already had the stolen watch when he bought the lost watch. So, there  is a clear difference  
in what hed told his previous insurer, what he initially told UKI and what  he later told UKI. 
Ref: DRN16909114As Ive explained above, I appreciate that the stress  of a break-in  should  be considered 
when looking at the information  a consumer provides in the aftermath. But I dont think  this 
sufficiently explains the differences in Mr Ds accounts for a number of reasons. 
I noted, for example, that some of the changes in Mr Ds story happened  in calls with UKI 
months after the incident, not in the immediate aftermath.
And I do think UKIs concerns about the timing of the changes  to Mr Ds story is of 
relevance. For example,  Mr D changed  his account  of how long hed owned the stolen watch  
when UKI said there was a difference between what hed told them  and what  hed told his 
previous insurer. 
Given the differences in Mr Ds account, its clear not all of the information  Mr D gave UKI 
was accurate. The timing  of the changes to his account tends to suggest Mr D was 
responding to the evidence put to him by UKI which appeared to undermine  his claim. 
And because I dont think Mr Ds explanations  for the differences  in his account  are 
persuasive, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to find its likely  Mr D knowingly provided 
inaccurate information about his claim.  
overall
I do think there are omissions and contradictions in Mr Ds evidence  in relation to his claim. 
And having listened to the calls,  Im satisfied Mr D was given the opportunity to explain these 
and/or provide relevant  evidence in relation to his claim. But for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont find his explanations persuasive.
Given this, and for all the reasons explained  above, I dont think UKI have  acted 
unreasonably in declining Mr Ds claim under the fraud condition and voiding his policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1690911