K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about TSB Bank plc closing his accounts and the service hes received.
background
TSB closed  Mr Ws accounts on 4 October 2018.  They explained to Mr W, in their letter of 7 
October 2018, that this decision was taken after conducting an account review.  They  said 
they were no longer  able to support his accounts  and that they reserve  the right to require 
any account to be closed in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr W referred the matter to our service. Our investigator was satisfied that Mr W had 
behaved improperly towards TSBs  staff and so he thought they were entitled to close his 
accounts, in the line with the terms and conditions. He therefore didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W disagreed  and so the matter  has been passed to me to review.
Im aware Mr W has previously experienced problems using online banking with TSB. I wont 
however be considering these problems in this decision  as it has been treated as a separate  
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB explained to Mr W in telephone calls that theyd decided to close his accounts as they 
considered the business relationship had broken down. I appreciate why Mr W is unhappy 
with their decision and that the impact this had on him may have  been  greater due to his 
health conditions.  Ive therefore  looked  at whether TSB has acted unfairly  by doing so.
TSBs terms and conditions, under section 16, say that they can close  an account when the 
customer is behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive manner). Ive 
carefully looked at the information  TSB has provided  our service and having done so, Im 
satisfied that Mr Ws behaviour was threatening and abusive at times.
I appreciate that Mr Ws behaviour could be linked to his health conditions.  But while Id 
expect a financial business to make reasonable  adjustments for customers, I dont  think  this 
removes their responsibility to protect the welfare  of their staff.  And so, as I consider Mr Ws 
behaviour to be improper at times, it follows  that I think  TSB has acted fairly, and in line with 
the terms and conditions, when deciding to close his accounts.
Mr W has provided our service additional  information that he believes shows his accounts 
were closed due to unauthorised business use, and not for conduct  reasons. Ive carefully 
considered this information  and while I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr W, it 
doesnt change  my view on the matter.  Im aware TSB carried  out an account review and so 
this may have taken  in to consideration how the accounts were being used. But irrespective  
of that, for the reasons Ive explained, I remain  satisfied  that TSB were within  their rights to 
close the accounts due to Mr Ws behaviour. It follows that I dont think  theyve acted 
wrongly by doing  so.
Ref: DRN17179492I understand Mr W has also raised concerns about  the service he received from TSB. 
Although I appreciate his dissatisfaction with whats happened Ive not seen anything  to 
show TSB has acted inappropriately.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1717949