K820x#14complaint
Mr As complained about problems he had with a fixed sum loan agreement  he took through 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) after he wanted 
to upgrade his mobile phone. 
background
In January 2017 Mr A bought a mobile phone using a fixed sum loan agreement. The plan 
he agreed with the store  meant he could upgrade his phone  when the manufacturer  brought  
out a new model.  When Mr A went into the store in November 2017  to upgrade  his mobile he 
said he had a number  of problems with the sales advisor. He said the advisor input his 
details incorrectly which meant his application for the upgrade  was declined. 
Mr A complained to Clydesdale but was unhappy that it harassed him on                          
24 December 2017 to get information about  the phone. Mr A said Clydesdale told him his 
application had been turned down due to the information submitted on the application and 
not because of any problems with his credit score. Mr A said Clydesdale  told him hed be 
accepted if he tried again.
Mr A went  back to the store in January 2018 but his application was turned  down  again.      
He said Clydesdale  told him this was because  the first application hadnt been removed.    
Mr A decided to trade in his phone and buy a new one without using a loan. He was 
unhappy to discover  that he still had outstanding payments to make for his old phone even 
after trading  it in. He also experienced problems with his new phone. 
Mr A was unhappy with the service hed received from the store and complained  to 
Clydesdale. He also complained that Clydesdale had carried out credit  searches for the 
application which had impacted on his credit score. Mr A didnt think  he should have to pay 
any more towards his old phone. 
Clydesdale said it had passed on Mr As concerns but said it wasnt responsible for the 
service Mr A had received in the store.  It also said it wasnt responsible for any problems    
Mr A had with his new phone because he hadnt  used its loan to buy it. 
Clydesdale said it had phoned Mr A on 24 December as it was a working day and hed 
complained the day before. It said the applications had been declined  due to inconsistent 
information but it had removed the credit searches for them so they shouldnt impact  his 
credit score. Clydesdale  said the store had given Mr A a £340 discount  on his new phone 
because hed traded  in his old one. That meant  he still needed to make  all the payments on 
his original loan agreement. Clydesdale  said it had suspended Mr As account while  it looked  
into things and cleared any arrears  but his payments were  due again from March 2018.
Clydesdale accepted some of its service could have been better and paid Mr A £50 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr A remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. In addition to the points he raised 
with Clydesdale  he said hed thought  his loan agreement was with Barclays Bank and not               
Barclays Partner Finance.  He thought  it was misleading for Clydesdale to refer to itself as 
Barclays in the terms and conditions when he was agreeing to upgrade  his phone.  And didnt 
think it should use the name. He also complained that Clydesdale refused to suspend the 
payments on his account while our service looked  into things. 
Ref: DRN17529592Our investigator didnt  think Clydesdale  needed to do anything else. He thought Barclays  
wasnt responsible  for the service Mr A had received in the store. And thought  it was clear 
from the loan agreement that the credit was with Barclays Partner Finance which  was a 
trading name of Clydesdale. He also thought it was reasonable for Clydesdale  to refer to 
itself as Barclays. 
He thought Clydesdale had applied to remove the two unsuccessful credit searches  from   
Mr As credit  file and hadnt  seen anything to show they were still on there. He didnt think  
Clydesdale had guaranteed Mr A would be successful if he applied  again. And he thought it 
was reasonable  for Clydesdale to ask Mr A to pay the money he owed on his credit 
agreement and for this information to be passed  onto credit reference  agencies. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator  so his complaints come  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
Mr As made a number  of detailed points so I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that Im 
going to focus on what I see as the central  issues of this complaint. 
I understand Mr As also unhappy with the service he received from the store.  But in this 
decision I can only consider what Clydesdale  and not any other  business   might,  or might 
not, have done wrong.  
Mr A signed  a fixed sum loan agreement in January 2017 to buy his phone. The agreement 
was for 20 months  and shows the total cost of the phone. So I think  its reasonable for Mr A 
to have known  hed need to pay the total cost of the phone  to settle the agreement. 
I understand the scheme Mr A entered into with the store allowed him to upgrade when the 
manufacturer produced a new model.  To upgrade Mr A needed to enter a new loan 
agreement and the store would take back the phone and pay off any outstanding balance  on 
the original agreement
As Mr A didnt enter a new loan agreement the store gave him a £340  discount on his new 
phone. So Mr A essentially sold his old phone to the store and used that to reduce the cost 
of his new phone. As Mr As used the money from his old phone  towards his new one, he 
still owes the outstanding balance of the credit for the old one. Mr A owes  this money so Im 
not going to interfere with Clydesdales decision to not suspend  his payments or to pass  the 
information on to credit reference  agencies. 
The loan agreement  Mr A signed says its between  him and Barclays  Partner Finance. The 
terms and conditions say Clydesdale is trading as Barclays Partner Finance. Clydesdale has 
explained that Barclays Partner Finance  is a trading  name for Clydesdale  Financial  Services  
Ltd. It said its a separate legal entity  but is also a subsidiary of Barclays  Bank plc. Im 
satisfied this information is correct and Clydesdale  made it clear Barclays Partner  Finance  is 
its trading name. 
Ref: DRN17529593I accept the screenshot of the upgrade  agreement Mr As provided from his phone says hes 
agreeing to take out a credit with Barclays. But I think its reasonable for Barclays  Partner  
Finance to abbreviate its name to Barclays as its a shortened version of its name. And it 
was clear from Mr As original credit  agreement that Barclays  Partner Finance is a trading 
name of Clydesdale and a subsidiary  of Barclays Bank. 
I understand Mr A recalls Clydesdale telling him the second application  would be successful 
if he tried again, but I can see the call note on 8 December 2017  said Clydesdale couldnt 
guarantee a second application  would be successful. So I dont think  its likely it said it would 
definitely be accepted. But I can see it said it would remove the search  if Mr A wanted to 
reapply, although  this didnt happen until after the second application. 
Clydesdale said the applications were both turned  down due to inconsistencies in the 
information that had been provided and not due to Mr As credit score. Mr A said he called 
Clydesdale after the second application was turned down and said Clydesdales  call handler 
told him the second application was turned down because the first one was still showing on 
his credit file. Clydesdale cant locate this call but I dont think this matters to the outcome of 
my decision.  
Clydesdale has explained that the applications Mr A made are separate  to the credit  search.  
And even  if the credit  searches  are removed Clydesdale would still be able to see the 
applications that had been  made,  although they wouldnt be visible to other lenders. So I 
dont think Clydesdale  not removing the credit search sooner impacted on Mr As second 
application as it would  still be able to see the original application. Also,  Ive seen a statement 
from Clydesdales underwriters that said there was inconsistent information in both 
applications.  
Clydesdale said its applied to the credit reference agencies to have the unsuccessful  
searches removed and both acknowledged the request on the same day. I think  that was fair 
and reasonable as it was satisfied there were inconsistencies on the application.  Mr A hasnt 
provided anything  to show the searches are still on there and I think its more  likely his score  
is being affected by the payments hes missed since March 2018.  
Clydesdale said it called  Mr A on 24 December 2017 as hed complained the previous  day 
and it was a working  day. I think Clydesdale was reasonably replying to Mr As contact and I 
dont see anything wrong with it contacting him on a working day. 
Clydesdale has already paid Mr A £50 for the time it took to answer his complaint and the 
distress one of its call handlers caused by talking over him. I appreciate Mr A will be 
disappointed with my decision but Im not going to ask it to do anything else as I think  its 
done enough to resolve things. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN17529594Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1752959