K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan granted to him by Evergreen Finance London Limited 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk  (moneyBoat or the lender).
background
MoneyBoat agreed  one loan for Mr P for an amount of £500 on 4 December 2018. This was 
to be repaid in three instalments of £237  (rounded) on 31 December, 31 January 2019  and 
28 February 2019.
Mr P says that MoneyBoat was irresponsible to lend to him. He says his credit  history would 
have shown that he had missed some payments to various companies and that he was 
taking out short-term loans from other providers at the same time as applying  for this loan. 
Mr P says MoneyBoat should have known this and not agreed to lend to him.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ps complaint and recommended  that it be 
upheld. He said that MoneyBoat should refund any interest and charges Mr P paid for his 
loan and that a default associated with the loan should be removed from his credit record.
MoneyBoat disagrees  that it lent irresponsibly. It says that adverse information  on a 
borrowers credit file does  not exclude  them from obtaining further  credit. Furthermore it 
relied on the information Mr P provided,  in good faith, and it provided the loan in line with the 
regulators guidance and principles. 
The complaint has now come to me for review and final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
MoneyBoat says its confident it lent to Mr P as a responsible authorised  firm, in line with 
regulatory guidance. The Financial Conduct  Authority  was the regulator when this loan was 
agreed. It requires lenders, such as MoneyBoat, to carry  out a proportionate  affordability 
check to assess the risk to the borrower of not being able to make  repayments out of their 
usual income or savings:
without  the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
without  failing to make  any other  payment the customer has a contractual  or statutory 
obligation to make;  and
without  the repayments having  a significant adverse impact on the customers  
financial situation.
(CONC1 5.2A.12R)
CONC goes on to say that the extent and scope of the assessment depends on the 
individual circumstances  of each case.  And that lenders need to decide  what  type of 
assessment is required  and react to the information they gather. CONC 5.2A.19G says that 
1 The Financial Conduct Authority rules and guidance are set out in its Consumer Credit Handbook  or 
CONC.
Ref: DRN18547632a firm may take into account  statistical information  unless it knows, or has reasonable cause  
to suspect, that a borrowers spending is significantly higher or the data are unlikely to be 
reasonably representative of the borrowers situation. Furthermore, its unlikely to be 
appropriate to place reliance on statistical data where the firm is aware, or has reasonable 
cause to be aware, that the borrowers  personal circumstances or level of existing 
indebtedness differs significantly from the sample.  
MoneyBoat says that when Mr P applied for his loan it asked him for his income and 
expenditure. In response to his complaint, MoneyBoat told him We relied  on the information  
you provided, in good  faith, including carrying out our verification of your income and 
expenditure, which would give us an approximation  of your current financial circumstances.  
And We verified your salary on each application through [a credit reference agency].  We 
also requested financial  figures directly  from you to assess your disposable income  - all of 
the figures you provided showed sufficient disposable income to repay the loan instalments.
The supporting information MoneyBoat provided  shows a recorded income of £2,250  but no 
recorded expenditure figures. So I am unsure  as to how MoneyBoat was able to conclude  
that Mr P had sufficient  disposable income from the information it gathered  from him.
MoneyBoat says it carried out a credit check to verify Mr Ps income and expenditure and 
provided a copy of its credit check results. I can see from these that Mr P owed almost 
£6,800 to other creditors. This included his overdrafts, credit card and home  credit  account 
balances, and he appeared to have exhausted the limits of his overdrafts and credit 
cards.The credit file results also show that Mr P opened 23 short  term accounts  in the last 
six months, that he had 30 credit  searches in the last three months and currently  held 11 
active accounts. The lender would have  seen from the credit file results that Mr P needed to 
meet a regular repayment of about  £300 on a recent short  term loan and service his credit 
cards and home credit debt. 
Mr P doesnt  appear to have disclosed his expenses or that he was managing any 
outstanding debt in his application. I think MoneyBoat ought to have been concerned about 
the risk to Mr P of not being able to meet the loan repayments from his usual means, given 
the information about his existing debt and the ongoing credit searches shown in its credit 
file results. So I think it would have been appropriate for MoneyBoat under these 
circumstances to have  enquired further  into Mr Ps expenses and existing debts, including  
his short  term commitments. 
MoneyBoat says before agreeing the loan it increased Mr Ps expenses  to a total of £800. 
The lender  said in its response to Mr P On your application we increased the monthly  
expenditure that you input significantly,  on the basis that your credit  report highlighted 
different expenditure than you had disclosed,  and to bring you in line with the average 
expenditure listed on the Common  Financial  Statement2. Having  taken this extra  measure to 
ensure the loan was affordable for you, you still displayed  enough  disposable monthly 
income to meet the monthly repayments  in full. I dont have a breakdown for this figure of 
£800 so I dont know how MoneyBoat calculated this or to what  extent this reflects  
information that was specific to Mr P such as his usual living costs or existing credit  
commitments, short or longer term. So I cant say that the lender carried  out a proportionate 
check here. 
2 The Common Financial  Statement is a budgeting tool used by advice agencies and others.  
Ref: DRN18547633As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check would likely have shown that Mr P owed 
about £1,070 to several other short term lenders.  And assuming minimal repayments  
towards his other debts,  they felt that given this amount of existing debt it wasnt likely  that 
Mr P would be able to repay more credit without having to borrow further. 
I agree  with this conclusion. Ive looked through Mr Ps bank statements. In addition  to his 
outstanding short term loans, I can see he was paying at least £150 a month servicing his 
credit card debts. And that some of his usual monthly living  costs  included rent (£410), 
mobile phone costs (£50), petrol (£65) and insurance (£115). Even without considering  basic  
necessities such as food, clothing  or toiletries, its not likely that Mr P would have  been  able 
to meet  his monthly repayments  of £237 in a sustainable manner. I think its likely 
MoneyBoat would have learnt this, had it looked  into Mr Ps finances further, and it wouldnt 
have agreed to this loan.  So I dont  think it lent responsibly on this occasion  and I am 
upholding Mr Ps complaint.
what MoneyBoat should do to put things  right
In summary,  Ive concluded  that MoneyBoat should  have done more  to check that Mr P 
could sustainably repay its loan. Had it done  so, it would not have agreed to it. So I think 
MoneyBoat needs to put this right for Mr P.
I understand that Mr P has now repaid an amount of £500 towards his loan. So he 
has in effect repaid  the capital balance.  Any amount  of interest  or charges remaining 
should be written off.
If Mr P has paid anything above this in interest  or charges  MoneyBoat  should refund  
the interest and charges paid and pay interest  on these refunds at 8% simple*  from 
the dates of payment to the dates of settlement. I am not aware at this point that Mr P 
has made any payments beyond  the capital amount.
MoneyBoat  should remove any adverse information about  this loan from Mr Ps credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat must give 
Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct Evergreen  Finance London Limited  (trading as 
moneyboat.co.uk) to put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854763