K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a loan with Nationwide in 1992. At the same  time they bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered their repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr O hadnt 
been able to work. 
The cost of the policy was added to the loan and they paid interest on it.
Mr and Mrs O say that they didnt need the policy.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs O 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs O dont suggest  that they didnt know they had a choice about taking the PPI. I 
can see from the credit agreement supplied by Nationwide that its clear  Mr and Mrs O didnt 
have to take the policy but they chose to do so. 
Mr and Mrs O say that they were poorly advised.  They dont think they needed the cover. 
But Nationwide didnt provide any tailored advice to Mr and Mrs O, so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for them. It was up to Mr and Mrs O to decide 
if they wanted it. Nationwide did need to make sure Mr and Mrs O got enough information so 
they could make an informed decision about  buying  it.
I cant know exactly what information  Nationwide gave  Mr and Mrs O about the PPI over 26 
years ago. But from what I know  of Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time I dont think  
even if theyd had all the information they needed  that theyd have made a different decision 
about buying the PPI. 
The policy only covered  Mr O. This was reasonable, as Mrs O wasnt eligible for the cover. 
I think Mr and Mrs O knew enough about the PPI to understand it wouldve helped with their 
repayments if Mr O couldnt work.  It was up to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether they wanted 
or needed the cover and it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. The cost of the policy  
was clearly disclosed, including the amount of interest they had to pay on the premiums. If 
Mr and Mrs O changed  their minds about the policy or paid the loan off early theyd have 
received a proportionate  refund of the premiums.
Ref: DRN15158542Mr O wasnt affected by any terms which  mightve  made it more  difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim   such as those related to self-employment. So, even if theyd known the 
precise details about the cover I dont think it wouldve  changed their minds  about buying it.
On balance, I dont  think Mr and Mrs O lost out as a result of anything Nationwide mightve  
done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Os complaint so it follows that Nationwide Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1515854