K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  about Vodafone Limiteds (Vodafone) handling of a request to transfer an 
account.
background 
Ms S says that when she asked to move an account, shed been paying on behalf of her 
son, into his name, Vodafone  mishandled the request and this led to adverse reports  being  
made to her credit file. She says that as a result of these adverse reports  her bank withdrew 
her overdrafts and refused to issue her with a debit card.
Shes also unhappy that Vodafone  sent information  to her sons email address instead  of 
hers and she says this was a breach  of data protection.
Vodafone offered Ms S £100  to compensate her for the inconvenience  caused but they 
didnt accept that theyd breached data protection legislation. They  explained that Ms Ss 
sons email address was the one set up on the account initially and that they had made 
several attempts  to clarify contact details with Ms S but she hadnt responded.
Ms S referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator provided her opinion.  She 
wasnt persuaded thered been any data breach  either. She noted that Vodafone had 
explained Ms Ss sons email had been supplied  when the account was set up and she 
explained that she would not expect this to be changed until security information  had been 
supplied by Ms S. But she noted that, despite several attempts from Vodafone to obtain that 
information, Ms S hadnt supplied it.
She said that the recent credit  file supplied to her seemed to have rectified  any errors. She 
spoke with Ms Ss bank  and they confirmed  that the reason the overdrafts had been 
removed was nothing  to do with the credit reports made by Vodafone. So she wasnt  
persuaded that there had been sufficient information  provided to suggest  Ms S had been  
financially disadvantaged by the adverse reports that had been made to her credit file. But 
she did think Vodafone had been  slow to respond  to her complaint and that theyd been slow 
to respond to requests from this service  for information. So she thought there was evidence 
Ms S had been  inconvenienced by their actions and she therefore suggested they increase 
their offer of compensation to £200. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators  view.  She said her bank had confirmed that the 
reason her overdrafts had been  withdrawn was because of information  received from the 
credit reference agencies. She therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will be a little disappointing for Ms S so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN11471322Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the adverse reports
Ive reviewed the credit file provided by Ms S and can see that adverse markers are no 
longer present. 
Ive also reviewed the previous credit profile  showing  the account  in default on 1 April 2018.
Whilst I can understand Ms S being  concerned  about this as by this point she says she had 
asked Vodafone  to transfer the account into her sons name, I am not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence she has been  financially disadvantaged.
I say that because:
Ms Ss bank have  confirmed that their decision  to withdraw her two account 
overdrafts and not to renew her current type of debit  card was not to do with any 
credit file information relating to her Vodafone  accounts;
Ms Ss letter from her bank  advising of the removal of her overdraft limit was issued 
in February 2018 and that was before Vodafone say she called them to discuss  the 
transfer of her account into her sons name. So the transfer and the subsequent  
default marker appear to have taken place  after Ms Ss banks decision to withdraw  
her overdraft;
Ms Ss bank have  explained that the bank account which attracted by far the largest 
overdraft limit was in significant  credit.  So when  the overdraft limit was removed  I 
dont think theres  evidence Ms S would have suffered  financially as it doesnt appear 
she was using the overdraft.
So, in the circumstances I think Vodafones acceptance of the investigators compensation of 
£200 is reasonable. That represents compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms S when they reported  a default incorrectly and when  their response to Ms Ss 
concerns was delayed,  and their response  to this services investigations was also delayed 
and deprived Ms S of a speedy resolution.  But I dont think theres evidence to suggest 
Vodafone need to provide  any further compensation.
the data breach
Its not our role to decide if a business  has breached  data protection laws. This is for 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. But we can consider whether its fair 
and reasonable to tell a business  to pay compensation or take any other  action to recognise  
the impact of whats happened  on the consumer.
Here, however, Im not persuaded theres  evidence of any impact of any potential  breach. I 
can see that Vodafone have made  several attempts to clarify contact information  with Ms S 
but I cant see that she responded to their security questions and I dont think it would 
therefore be reasonable to suggest  they did anything wrong when handling  her contact 
details.
Ref: DRN11471323Overall, Im persuaded that the investigators suggested settlement is a fair one and Im 
asking Vodafone  to pay it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Vodafone Limited to 
pay Ms S £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1147132