K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the additional  premium  U K Insurance Limited (UKI) told him it would 
charge to cover his medical conditions under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr G has travel insurance with UKI linked to his building  society account. Hed previously  
paid an additional  amount  to waive the policy excess. Hed also told UKI about two medical  
conditions  a skin condition and knee  surgery. UKI had agreed  to cover these conditions  
without any additional  premium.
In May 2018  Mr G contacted UKI to pay the policy excess waiver premium  for the following  
12 months. At that time he told UKI hed had a diagnostic injection in his ankle joint,  to check  
whether he had osteoarthritis in that joint. He said his knee surgery had been due to arthritis.   
UKI said it would  continue to cover  Mr G for his existing skin condition  and arthritis,  but for 
an additional  premium  of around £100.  If Mr G didnt pay this additional amount it said it 
wouldnt cover  him for any of the declared  conditions, or claims directly relating  to them.  
Mr G thought this was unfair and came to us. Our adjudicator  looked  into it, and said UKI 
had treated Mr G the same as other customers in his position. It was able to charge the 
additional premium.  Mr G asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to Mr Gs telephone  call to 
UKI when  he told it about the diagnostic injection in his ankle. 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Providing they treat consumers fairly,  we generally think  insurers  can charge the amount 
they think they need to charge to cover a risk.
UKI has given us details  of how the way it assessed the additional premium it proposed to 
charge Mr G when he told it about the diagnostic injection in his ankle joint. From this I can 
see that UKIs underwriters  who set the premium   took into account the correct  
information when  assessing the risk. Mr G was treated the same as other customers in his 
position. I dont  think it has treated him unfairly.  
Mr G is concerned that UKI said it wouldnt cover him for the skin complaint,  previous knee 
surgery and ankle issue unless he paid the additional premium. Hed had the skin complaint 
for over 20 years without  any issues  and hadnt  had problems following the knee surgery.  
I see Mr Gs point. But UKI was entitled  to assess the risk based on the medical issues hed 
told it about. It was able to ask Mr G to pay the additional premium based on this risk, even if 
it had previously covered  the two conditions (skin condition and knee surgery) free of 
charge. Thats the case  even  if the ankle injection was diagnostic rather than curative.  He 
told UKI the knee surgery was due to arthritis. 
Ref: DRN15294512UKI is also entitled to decide that it requires  all declared medical  conditions  to be covered, 
rather than allowing Mr G to select the conditions hed like to be covered. 
Mr G has made the point that osteoarthritis  is a different risk from rheumatoid arthritis, and 
yet UKI has treated the diagnostic  injection for osteoarthritis under one condition of arthritis.  
Weve checked  this point with UKI and Im satisfied it did assess the risk under 
osteoarthritis. It didnt  use a global condition of arthritis to include rheumatoid  arthritis. 
As Mr G says,  he pays a monthly fee for the travel  insurance (as well as other benefits) 
attached to his building society  account.  I can see why hed not want  to pay an additional 
amount for travel insurance elsewhere, but that doesnt mean  UKI must provide cover for 
him without  an additional  premium.  Hes concerned about being able to get insurance with 
an insurer other than UKI, but in my experience  there are a number of different insurers  in 
the travel  insurance  market. UKI is only one of those insurers.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1529451