K821x#15Complaint
Mrs N has complained that her requests to withdraw income from a pension plan with 
Cofunds Limited were  mismanaged and delayed. Mrs N is represented  by her financial 
adviser, Mr I.
Background
In 2018 Mrs Ns adviser, Mr I, began the process  of transferring her existing pension and 
investment arrangements  to Cofunds.  Mrs Ns pension and investment accounts  with 
Cofunds were set up in April 2018.
Mrs N has encountered a number  of issues with her accounts since then. Mr I complained  
on Mrs Ns behalf that he was given conflicting information over whether Mrs N could delay 
taking her pension  commencement lump  sum (PCLS). He also complained that Cofunds 
had lost funds that had been transferred by Mrs Ns previous provider from an ISA. He said 
it had taken too long to locate the funds and apply them to Mrs Ns investment account. Mr I 
also complained  that Cofunds had delayed actioning a pension  income  payment request 
made hed made in August and October  2018.  He was also concerned  that Cofunds was 
selling units to cover the charges payable for the accounts. Mr I encountered further 
problems with an income payment request he made  on 3 December 2018. 
Cofunds provided a final response  on 12 December 2018. It apologised for the delay in 
applying the ISA funds to Mrs Ns account   fortunately  it said Mrs N had gained  from the 
delay due to market movements. It said it hadnt received the income request made  in 
August 2018,  and the October  2018 request was delayed because of the confusion  around 
whether Mrs N intended to take her PCLS.  It said the income request made  in 
December 2018  couldnt be actioned as there  were insufficient funds in the cash account. 
Cofunds said it had only sold units to cover charges when there were insufficient cash funds 
in the account.  It offered Mrs N £250  for any distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr I didnt accept this resolution and asked our service to consider the complaint. In 
January 2019  he said Mrs N had decided to transfer  her business away  from Cofunds due to 
the service provided.  Mr I thought Cofunds should cover the fees payable to the new 
provider. He also thought Mrs N should  have  all of the fees she paid to Cofunds refunded 
and extra compensation. 
Our investigator thought it was likely that Cofunds  had sold units  to cover charges despite  
there being sufficient  cash available in the account. They recommended Cofunds  carry out a 
rebalancing exercise from May 2018 comparing the value of the account if units  hadnt been 
sold to cover charges.  He also thought  Mrs N should  receive  an additional £750 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delayed income payments and ISA transfer. The 
investigator also thought Cofunds should cover  Mrs Ns set up costs to move  to an 
alternative provider.
Cofunds didnt  agree. Mr I accepted the findings  but added  that since  transferring Mrs Ns 
funds to an alternative provider there were some  discrepancies  with the amounts transferred 
and he complained about the time taken to complete the transfer.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN11777872I made  some further enquiries with Cofunds  and Mr I, and sent my provisional thoughts  to 
both parties. I said I was satisfied Mrs N hadnt been  disadvantaged by the delayed  ISA 
transfer, although I accepted it wouldve caused  her some worry. I said I thought  Cofunds 
hadnt received  the income request made in August 2018, but that it had delayed actioning 
the October  2018  income request.
After further information  had been  provided about the charges, it transpired that Cofunds had 
been reinvesting interest and dividends generated by the pension account, rather than 
sending this to the cash account  to cover fees and income withdrawal requests. Whilst Mr I 
said it had asked Cofunds to do this from the outset, I thought he had made it clear on 
12 October 2018 that the pension interest and dividends shouldnt  be reinvested.  If Cofunds 
had explained  what was needed  to arrange this, I thought this would have been in place by 
the time the income payment was requested in December 2018. 
Overall, I thought Cofunds should  pay Mrs N an extra £750 (£1,000  in total)  to compensate  
her for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues  shed faced  obtaining her 
pension income.  I also said that Cofunds should  carry out a rebalancing exercise  to show  
the position the account wouldve been  in if the interest and dividends generated by the 
pension account  had been sent to the cash account  from 22 October 2018 to the date Mrs N 
transferred her funds  away. If this showed  that the value of Mrs Ns funds was higher, I said 
the difference should be paid to Mrs N, together with interest  at 8% from the date the funds 
were transferred away to the date of settlement.
I didnt think Cofunds  needed to refund any management charges as these would have 
payable regardless.  I also didnt think Cofunds needed to cover the cost of moving to an 
alternative provider  as this was ultimately Mrs Ns choice. I thought the total compensation 
recommended adequately  compensated  her for the poor service.
Cofunds accepted this and provided  its calculations showing Mrs N hadnt  been 
disadvantaged by the units  being  sold to cover charges after October 2018. But Mr I didnt 
think this adequately compensated Mrs N for the issues shed faced. Mr I said that the 
rebalancing exercise wasnt sufficiently detailed.
Mr I added that I hadnt addressed the problems  encountered  when  Mrs N transferred to an 
alternative provider.  I said that I wouldnt be commenting on this issue  in my decision as this 
post-dated the complaint that had been  referred to our service and so should  be referred to 
Cofunds as a new complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding it for the 
same reasons Ive given  already. So, I think Cofunds should pay Mrs N £750  to resolve this 
complaint.
Reinvestment of pension interest  and dividends
Mr I says that he had made  it clear  from the outset  that the pension  account interest and 
dividends shouldnt be reinvested. But Cofunds  has explained that reinvestment is the 
default position and this could only be changed  if Mr I completed a new mandate.
Ref: DRN11777873Having reviewed the documents completed and the email exchanges between Mr I and 
Cofunds, I think Mr I made it clear on 12 October 2018 that the pension interest and 
dividends shouldnt be reinvested  not before  then.  Instead of informing Mr I that he needed 
to complete a new mandate, on 15 October  2018 Cofunds advised him the pension  account 
interest and dividends had to be reinvested.  I think Mr I shouldve  been told he needed to 
complete a new mandate on 15 October 2018.  And I think he wouldve ensured he 
completed and returned  the mandate immediately  I say this because at this time Mr I was 
emailing and responding to Cofunds  to sort out this issue daily.  So, I think the account 
mandate shouldve been  amended  to ensure the pension account  interest  and dividends  
was sent to the cash account, rather than being  reinvested, by 22 October 2018.
I asked Cofunds  to carry out a rebalancing exercise  to show the position the account 
wouldve been in if the interest and dividends generated  by the pension account had been 
sent to the cash  account from 22 October 2018 to the date Mrs N transferred her funds 
away. Cofunds carried out the rebalancing exercise,  which shows  that Mrs N is better off by 
£5.28. So, I dont  think Cofunds needs  to do any more to put things  right here.
Mr I says that Cofunds calculation might  not be accurate as it doesnt  adequately account 
for the sequencing risk. He says that because the investments mostly fell in value  during  the 
time they were held on the Cofunds  platform,  more units  would have needed to be sold in 
order to continue covering charges. This would have then resulted in less income being 
produced. Mr I says that in a rising market the sequencing risk would have been  less 
detrimental, but during this period the investments mostly fell in value. He says that unless 
Cofunds calculates this on a month by month basis it hasnt taken into account  fluctuations  
in the value of the underlying holdings.
Mr Is comments  were put to Cofunds, but it maintained the calculations are correct and 
showed Mrs Ns position had it been  instructed not to reinvest.
Ive taken both sides comments into account, but ultimately I think  Cofunds rebalancing 
exercise adequately identifies whether or not Mrs N has lost out as a result of the failing  Ive 
identified above.  So, I dont think it needs to do the calculation Mr I has put forward.  Im not 
persuaded that this calculation would show Mrs N had suffered  a loss. Whilst Mrs N 
wouldve probably received less income  due to more units  being sold to cover charges, if the 
units hadnt been sold to cover charges,  the charges payable  wouldve been higher as the 
charges are based  on the value of the holdings. So, overall, I think  just looking  at the 
difference in value based on the number of units held is a fair way to resolve this.
Income requests
Mr I sent an income payment request to Cofunds  in August 2018, but there  isnt any 
evidence to demonstrate that it was actually received.  So, Im not holding Cofunds 
responsible for any delays  between then and the request being sent again in October 2018.
Ref: DRN11777874There was a delay  in Cofunds actioning  the October  2018 request. It was sent on 
15 October 2018, but it wasnt  paid to Mrs N until 27 November 2018. The reason for the 
delay was because  Cofunds believed if the income was taken, Mrs N would lose the ability  
to take her PCLS.  However, its clear  from email correspondence in June 2018 that it had 
already been agreed with the pension provider that natural income could  be taken, and 
taking the PCLS  could be delayed as long as it was taken within  12 months. So, I think there  
was an unnecessary delay here that couldve been avoided.
Mr I sent an additional  pension income request on 3 December  2018. However, Cofunds 
advised there was insufficient cash funds to meet this request. It said Mr I would need  to sell 
some holdings to fund the request.  But I think this issue only arose because Cofunds  failed 
to action Mr Is request to stop reinvesting  the pension account  interest  and dividends.  As 
Ive said above,  I think the interest and dividends shouldve stopped  being  reinvested by 
22 October 2018. If this had happened, there  would have been sufficient cash available  to 
meet the December  income request.
Mr I says that because of the delaying in Cofunds  paying Mrs N her pension  income she had 
to return to work part-time  because  she was struggling. But Ive listened to the call he made 
to Cofunds when it took him through the illustration for the plan. In this call Mr I told Cofunds  
Mrs N intended to continue working part-time. If Mrs N wasnt  going to be working  at all 
I wouldve  expected  him to set up a regular income payment to help meet Mrs Ns 
commitments. Instead he chose to request income  on an ad-hoc basis, which  wouldve  
always taken longer to process. That said, I still think Mrs N should be compensated  for 
these delays as Im sure it wouldve caused  a degree of distress.
ISA funds
Cofunds provided evidence showing Mrs N was better off as a result of the ISA payment 
delay. So, even though I think Cofunds  shouldve been able to locate the funds sooner, Im 
satisfied it didnt cause  a financial loss. However, I appreciate this wouldve still caused 
Mrs N some worry.
Compensation
Cofunds paid Mrs N £250 for the delayed October 2018 income payment. But I think  
additional compensation is warranted for the ISA funds taking too long to locate and 
because the December 2018  income payment couldnt be made at all. Overall,  I think  an 
extra £750  (£1,000  in total)  is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate her for these 
issues.
I appreciate that Mr I has encountered his own problems  with Cofunds trying  to sort out the 
above issues for Mrs N. But I cant award  him compensation under  this complaint, nor can I 
treat Mr Is frustrations as Mrs Ns. Instead,  Ive looked at the actual trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs N. It is clear that she had to wait longer than necessary for her pension 
income, but the impact of this was lessened because she was still working at this time. 
Furthermore, I havent been provided  with any evidence to show that she couldnt meet her 
commitments during this time. And whilst  Mrs N wouldve  been  worried  that her ISA funds 
couldnt be located, ultimately she benefitted from this.
Ref: DRN11777875Management charges  and new provider  charges
I appreciate Mrs N is unhappy with the service provided, and I agree it fell short on some 
occasions. But my role is to put parties back into the position they wouldve been in if the 
poor service and mistakes  hadnt  happened. If the service had been as expected,  Mrs N 
wouldve always paid the management charges, with Cofunds  or another provider. For this 
reason, Im not asking Cofunds to refund these charges. Instead, I have awarded  
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset  caused by Cofunds failings.
Mrs N ultimately  felt she couldnt continue her relationship with Cofunds, and has incurred 
charges by moving her funds to another provider. While I can award  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by Cofunds failings,  I dont  think  this should  extend to covering the 
costs of setting up accounts  with a new provider. This isnt a cost Mrs N had to incur as a 
result of the service issues,  instead  it was a result  of her choice to cut ties with Cofunds. And 
while I can understand her reasons for doing so, I dont think  Cofunds should also 
compensate her for this.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
I require Cofunds  Limited  to pay Mrs N £750  as compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1177787