K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. This policy was sold by a third-party  acting  on behalf of the policy insurer.  I cant 
consider this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took 
place before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  were regulated  by the then Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) for insurance  intermediation activities or were otherwise  covered by 
our jurisdiction. 
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA France  IARD, so it has taken responsibility for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in this decision.
Mr E says AXA mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it should  be upheld  
because AXA failed  to give Mr E enough  information  about the costs and benefits of the 
policy. He was of the view that if Mr E had been given this information,  it would have 
dissuaded him from taking out the PPI as Mr E has told us he had good sick pay benefits  
from his employer and some savings.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
consider.
In my provisional decision of 7 January  2020  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint. Neither  AXA nor Mr E has made any further comments in response to that 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
Ive looked  at whether AXA made  it clear  to Mr E that the PPI was optional. Ive seen a 
copy of the application  form that Mr E completed when he took out the card.  This 
included a separate section relating to PPI which asked  him to sign  separately to his 
signature for the card itself  to say he wanted  the cover.  This part of the form has been  
signed, and theres nothing  on the form to suggest that the PPI was compulsory or would 
have any impact  on whether Mr Es application for credit was approved.
So with what  Ive seen,  I think its more likely than not that AXA made  it clear  that Mr E 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
AXA has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mr E and I think thats likely to be right. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy was right for him. But AXA did need to make sure it 
Ref: DRN14524132gave Mr E clear enough information about  the policy to enable him to decide for himself  
if he should take the policy.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And even 
if AXA had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would  have made a 
difference. I still think Mr E would have taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr E was 
eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected  by any of the main limitations to the cover,  
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Mr E has told us he was entitled  to six months  full sick pay from his employer, hes also 
said he had up to three months worth of savings at the time. Ive thought very carefully 
about what Mr E has said here,  but hes not been  able to give us anything to show  
exactly how much he had in savings at the time,  so I dont think it would be fair for me to 
say that any savings he might have  had meant  the policy  was unsuitable. Mr E also 
hasnt told us anything  about  the type of work he did at the time, how long he had 
worked there, or who his employer was. So with the very limited information we have  
been provided, I dont  think I can be sure that he was entitled to six months full pay. With 
this in mind, and given  the level of benefit  that this PPI policy provided, I think  he could 
have found the PPI useful if something  had gone  wrong.
So on balance, I dont  think that better  information  about the PPI would have put Mr E off 
taking out the cover.
As neither Mr E nor AXA has said anything to make me change  my mind,  I still dont think  
this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1452413