K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that about the service she received when she requested a copy  of the 
agreement and terms and conditions for her credit card from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
In January 2018 Ms A wrote to Barclaycard to ask for a copy of her credit agreement  and the 
terms and conditions for her account to check if Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI)  was 
added to the account when it was opened.
Barclaycard said it would need to check its records to find the documents  but until it did, Ms 
As account was suspended. 
Over the next few months Ms A followed  this up but Barclaycard  said it hadnt been able to 
locate the documents and so her account remained suspended. In March  as nothing  had 
been resolved  she decided  to close her account.  She found  out at this point her account  had 
been closed in February.
Ms A says Barclaycard misled her by saying her account was suspended  when it had in fact 
been closed. She also concerned that adverse  information may have been reported  to the 
credit reporting agencies. She asked for an apology  for the misinformation, that any adverse 
credit information was removed and compensation  for what had happened.
Barclaycard said where it wasnt able to provide copies of the account documents, its policy  
was to suspend  the account. This was what it had done here so it didnt agree it had done  
anything wrong.  But  it agreed Ms A had been given conflicting information and that her 
complaint should  have  been logged sooner. It offered her £25 for each of these points.
Our investigator said if Barclaycard couldnt  find the account documents, it couldnt enforce  
the debt so he felt it was reasonable for Barclaycard to restrict the account while  it tried to 
find them.  And the terms and conditions allowed it to restrict or close  the account so he 
couldnt say it had done anything wrong.
But Barclaycard had written to Ms A to say her account  had been  suspended when in fact it 
had been closed shortly after shed first written in. Whether intentional or not, he thought this 
was misleading. Ms A had clearly been upset to find out the information  shed  been  given 
was incorrect so he couldnt agree with Barclaycard that thered been  no real impact from 
this. 
In addition Ms A was clearly worried at the impact Barclaycards decision might  have on her 
credit file. Although  he didnt feel this would be an issue as the reason for the closure wasnt  
recorded, he didnt  think Barclaycard had explained this fully to Ms A at the time. In part, this 
was why shed  brought  her complaint to us. For that reason he didnt  think  the compensation 
already offered for this was enough.  Hed seen Barclaycard  had already offered Ms A the 
£25 for poor communication and £25 for the way it had dealt with her complaint. He 
recommended it now pay her an additional  £75 for the inadequate information  and the 
impact it had had on her. 
Barclaycard accepted the recommendation but Ms A disagreed and asked for her complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman. She said in summary 
Ref: DRN13890852Barclaycard had been deliberately  misleading which she felt was to try and hide the 
fact it hadnt been  able to find the original credit agreement
It had written to her repeatedly saying the account was suspended when her call to 
its customer services  had shown  it had been closed.
She felt major financial  institutions  should act with honesty  and integrity not with 
smoke and mirrors . For that reason she didnt agree with Barclaycards view that as 
the result  was the same, thered been no impact.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
When Ms A asked Barclaycard for the account  documents it explained that, until it could find 
them, it would need to suspend the account.  I can understand this was frustrating for Ms A 
but under  the account terms and conditions, it was entitled to do this so I cant say it was 
acting unfairly.
Having said that Id expect it to be open  and clear with Ms A as to what  was happening with 
her account  and, in this case, Im not satisfied it was. It wrote to Ms A in January and March 
to say her account had been suspended while it looked for the documents.  The reality  was 
that it had closed her account in February, shortly after she had made her request.
Ive seen Barclaycard  accepts its communication could  have  been  better  but says theres 
been no real impact as Ms A wouldnt have  been able to use her card either way. But I think 
a customer would think there was a very real difference between an account that had been  
suspended (possibly temporarily) and one that had been closed.
For that reason  when  Barclaycard decided  to close her account,  I consider it should have 
told Ms A - and as soon as possible. In this case it was only when Ms A decided  to close her 
account because  of the lack of progress in dealing  with her request that Barclaycard told her 
that her account had already been  closed. I dont think that was acceptable and I can 
understand why she felt shed been  misled.
Ive also seen that Ms A was concerned in case the decision to close  her account  might be 
seen as a negative report on her credit  file. She raised  this with Barclaycard at the time.  As 
the investigator has said, the credit file wont show why the accounts been closed so that 
shouldnt be an issue but Id expect Barclaycard to have explained this to Ms A when she 
asked and I cant see that it did.
Its clear Ms A feels very strongly  about the way Barclaycards dealt with this. She says shes 
been misled and that Barclaycard didnt  acknowledge the impact this has had on her and the 
compensation doesnt properly reflect this.
Ive listened very carefully to what she says. But while  theres no precise  way of calculating 
such awards, in deciding whats a fair I have to take into account the impact on the 
consumer and any award shouldnt be seen as penalty on the business. In this case  if 
Barclaycard had kept Ms A better  informed then shed have known sooner that her account 
had been closed but Ive seen nothing to suggest the final decision would have been 
Ref: DRN13890853different. For that reason  I think £100  for the poor communication  and the delay this 
caused-is reasonable together with an additional £25 for the delay in logging  her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms As complaint in part and direct  Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay Ms A £125  in total for her distress and inconvenience caused  by its poor 
communication and complaint handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389085