K820x#14complaint
Miss F says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Miss F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2005. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint because:
Theres limited  information available from the time of sale.  But from what  is available it 
seems likely that Miss F wouldve understood she had a choice about buying it. The 
mortgage declaration didnt  include a choice about  PPI, but did include some information  
about if Miss F was applying for it. And Bank of Scotland wrote to Miss F shortly  
afterwards to confirm  that her PPI application had been  successful. So I think Bank of 
Scotland made Miss F aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss F, and it seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The mortgage  was a 
significant commitment  four times her annual salary repayable  over more than 20 
years. And while Miss F had some  sick pay through her work and some savings, it 
seems appropriate  that she may have wanted  the additional peace  of mind the PPI could 
provide. 
I dont know how Bank of Scotland explained the cost of the policy, so its could possible 
it couldve done this better  than it did. But even  if it had, I think  Miss F would still have 
bought it. The PPI welcome letter  included  both the cost and the benefit  and she 
received this before the policy  started.  Theres no record  of Miss F expressing 
dissatisfaction with this at the time,  so I dont  think shed have felt differently if shed had 
this information  sooner. 
Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Miss F doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of those things.  
Ive taken into account Miss Fs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion. I 
appreciate she doesnt  remember PPI being  discussed. But I think thats understandable  
given how long ago it was. 
Ref: DRN14539042my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1453904