K820x#14complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Marks  & Spencer Financial  Services Plc t/a M&S Bank has rejected 
her chargeback request. She wants M&S  to refund  her for a number of disputed 
transactions.
background
Ms C set up a trading  account with a third party. This third party  supposedly claimed to be a 
broker and to provide trading of regulated financial  products. The third party  was meant  to 
provide Ms C with a self-directed investment account for regulated financial products.
Ms C made a series  of transactions to the account.  She decided to request for her money to 
be sent back. She was asked by the third party to deposit an extra £5,000  (5 deposits  of 
£1,000 each). Despite  doing this, her money was still not returned to her. 
Ms C made a chargeback request through M&S. Ms C claims the third party isnt a broker, 
brokerage firm or any type of investment/financial services firm. She says the third party 
wasnt authorised  by the FCA and couldnt  provide the services  theyd  advertised.  
M&S rejected the claim. They  said Ms C was trading binary  options  and that this was a form 
of gambling. They said she had no chargeback rights  under the Mastercard rules. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Overall he felt M&S  had acted fairly and that 
they hadnt been unreasonable by rejecting the chargeback claim. 
As Ms C remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at. Ive carefully 
looked at the further submissions Ms C has made to our service. I note shes very unhappy  
that M&S  didnt initiate  the chargeback on the grounds that she was supposedly trading in 
binary options. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive looked at all the evidence, this 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues in dispute.
Under the Mastercard rules, M&S has confirmed that Ms C wouldnt be entitled to a 
chargeback request for payments which were sent from a credit card to a trading account  for 
investment or forex. Ms C made  the payments for trading.  I therefore  dont think M&S has 
acted incorrectly by rejecting Ms Cs chargeback.  Banks arent obligated  to raise a 
chargeback request if they think its unlikely to be successful.  
Just like the investigator, whilst M&S was wrong to say Ms C was engaged in binary  options  
trading, this makes  no difference  to the outcome of the complaint.
I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I think  M&S has acted 
fairly. And I cant say theyve been unreasonable by rejecting Ms Cs chargeback  claim. M&S  
wasnt required to raise  a chargeback  request  for payments from Ms Cs credit  card to a 
trading account  for investment purposes. 
Ref: DRN17871562my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1787156