K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  didnt correctly  record his loan repayments  
and as a result it defaulted  his account  and transferred the debt to a third party. Mr M also 
complains about  the frequency  of letters and phone calls he received from Nationwide about 
his account being in arrears.
background
Mr M took out a personal loan with Nationwide  in December 2015  with monthly repayments 
over 60 months. Mr M told us he received lots of letters and calls from Nationwide telling him 
his account was in arrears.  He thinks this was harassment because he thinks his account  is 
up to date and that Nationwide hasnt  correctly recorded his repayments. Nationwide  has 
now defaulted and closed his account  and transferred the debt to a third party.
To resolve  the complaint  hed like Nationwide  to reduce the balance  on his outstanding loan 
by £1,000, to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused and to remove the default 
and any negative information on his credit file.
When Mr M complained to Nationwide it didnt  uphold  his complaint. It said the arrears  
figures were  correct and it was unable to agree it had been  incorrect to contact  him about 
the arrears or the frequency of the contact it had with him.
Mr M wasnt happy with Nationwides response  so he referred his complaint to our service. 
When our adjudicator looked  into Mr Ms complaint  they didnt recommend it should  be 
upheld.
Our adjudicator cross-checked all the payments that left Mr Ms current account against  the 
repayments shown  as received on Nationwides statements and concluded  that Nationwide  
had correctly recorded Mr Ms repayments and his arrears.
Mr M is unhappy  with the adjudicators view. He says the account is now up to date and he 
thinks Nationwide has wasted time and energy issuing a default notice. He would like 
Nationwide to retract  the default notice to allow his loan to be repaid as normal.
In response, our adjudicator explained  that Nationwide has a duty to report  missed  or late 
payments to credit reference agencies and that missed payments and default  markers can 
remain on his credit file for six years. If Mr Ms payments  are now up to date, then 
Nationwide shouldnt be recording  any new information on his credit file.
Mr M has asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive been  though the statements provided by his bank and also 
the statements  provided by Nationwide so that I could check the payments that left his 
current account against the payments shown  as received by Nationwide. Having done so, 
Im satisfied that Nationwide correctly  recorded  his repayments and arrears.
Ref: DRN17394542Ive summarised below the details of Mr Ms missing payments so that all the information is 
in this one decision.
Nationwides loan statements show that Mr Ms first missing payment was for 23 January 
2017. Mr Ms current account statement doesnt show  this as sent either.
A second payment was missed  on 23 April 2017.  This meant Mr M was now two months in 
arrears. Nationwide  sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) letter  dated  24 April 2017  to 
explain this. Mr M made a payment on 25 April 2017  reducing  his arrears to one month.  I 
can understand why Mr M might  have been confused  when he received Nationwides  NOSIA  
showing two months  of arrears. However,  I cant agree Nationwide made  an error because it 
sent the NOSIA  letter  before Mr Ms April payment credited his account.
Nationwides contact  notes show that on 3 May 2017 Mr M agreed to make up the missing  
payment for January  2017. Mr Ms loan statement and current account  statements show  
two payments were  made in May 2017.  This brought his account  up to date and it was no 
longer in arrears.
In July 2017 Mr Ms account  fell back into arrears when a direct debit was returned  
unpaid on 24 July 2017. No further payments  were  shown as made to his loan for that 
month.
Nationwides contact  notes show that when Mr M contacted  it in early December 2017 he 
agreed to make a payment the following day to bring  his account up to date. I can see he 
made a payment on 7 December 2017, but I cant see that a second payment was made  in 
December 2017  and this meant Mr Ms loan was still one payment in arrears.
Nationwide sent a second Notice of Sums in Arrears letter  on 24 October 2018 when his 
loan payment wasnt received. By this time his account was two months  in arrears. I can 
see that Mr Ms payment  for October  wasnt made  until 31 October 2018 at which time his 
account was one payment in arrears.
No payment was made in November 2018 so his loan account was still two months  in 
arrears.
Mr M complained to Nationwide at the end of November 2018 to dispute the arrears and to 
complain about  the number  of calls made to him which he felt was harassment.  I can see 
from Nationwides call log that it was in regular contact with him. However, I agree with the 
adjudicator that as his account  was in arrears and as it hadnt been able to reach him, I 
cant agree  that Nationwide acted  inappropriately.
Nationwide sent a further letter on 24 December 2018. This letter asked Mr M to make  a 
payment in the next seven days or to contact  Nationwide to discuss  payment options. The 
letter also made clear that: if we dont receive  the payment  of £348.80  or agree a plan 
within seven days from the date of this letter, we may issue a Default Notice.
I cant say Nationwide  acted unfairly in sending  this letter. I say this because  at the time 
Mr Ms account was in arrears and the terms and conditions of the personal loan agreement 
hed signed in December 2015  make clear that in the event of missing  payments or 
underpayments Nationwide  could register his details with credit reference agencies  and this 
could lead to legal  proceedings being  taken  against  him.
Ref: DRN17394543On 25 January 2019 Mr M made two repayments. This meant his account was now only 
one payment in arrears.  However, Mr Ms February  2019 payment was made late, and 
didnt credit his account until 1 March 2019.  This meant his account was two months  in 
arrears.
Nationwide issued a Default Notice to Mr Ms home address on 1 March 2019. It said: 
If we dont  receive a payment of £348.80 or agree a payment plan by 22 March  2019, well 
request the full account balance. Well also register your failure to pay as a default  with 
Credit Reference Agencies. This could affect your credit rating and might make  it more 
difficult for you to obtain credit in the future.
As the account was still in arrears on 22 March 2019, I cant  say Nationwide  acted unfairly 
when it defaulted  the account.
I appreciate Mr M has told us his account is no longer in arrears. However, as he didnt 
make his payments  within the required timescales I cant say Nationwide  acted unfairly in 
defaulting his account. As Ive made a finding  that the default was correctly  recorded it 
follows that I do not require Nationwide to remove the default  or any missed  or late 
payment markers  on this account.
In situations where  a customer experiences  financial hardship wed expect a bank to treat 
customers positively and sympathetically to see what assistance can be offered. However, 
in Mr Ms case  I havent seen anything to suggest  he contacted Nationwide to set up a 
repayment plan,  or to tell it that he was experiencing financial difficulties so I cant  say 
Nationwide treated him unfairly.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank  statements and they show that his account was overdrawn for 
much of March 2019. I dont know if he had an arranged overdraft so Im unable  to tell if 
he would  have had sufficient funds in his account to make the payment detailed  in the 
default notice.  However,  this doesnt  change my decision  because,  as Ive explained 
above, I havent seen anything to suggest  Mr M contacted  Nationwide  to set up a 
repayment plan and neither did he tell Nationwide he was experiencing financial difficulties 
so I cant say Nationwide treated  him unfairly.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive taken into account his request that the default notice 
should be retracted. However for the reasons Ive explained above I dont agree Nationwide 
has treated him unfairly and I dont require it to do anything further. Nationwide has a duty to 
report to credit reference agencies missed or late payments because this shows to other 
lenders the way he managed his account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1739454