K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc charged her a handling fee when she 
used her credit card to make a payment to another credit card in June 2018. 
Mrs A also complains that she was charged interest  on the transaction. 
background
Mrs A has a Tesco credit card and has previously  used it to make  payments to another  
credit card she has with a third party. In 2018 Tesco changed the terms and conditions 
governing how the credit  card operates and sent out a notice of variation to its customers. 
One of the new terms said a 3.99%  cash handling  fee would apply for a range of 
transactions, including repaying borrowing. 
At the end of June 2018 Mrs A made  a payment  to another credit card using her Tesco  
credit card and was charged a £46.73 handling fee. Mrs A was also charged  interest  on the 
transaction. 
Mrs A complained and has said that the information shes been sent doesnt say payments 
to credit cards will attract a handling  fee. Tesco  didnt agree a mistake had been  made  so 
didnt offer to refund  the charge or interest  to Mrs A. She went on to refer her case to this 
service and an adjudicator looked  at what had happened. But the adjudicator thought  Tesco 
had dealt with Mrs As complaint fairly and the charge had been correctly applied.  Mrs A still 
feels the wording of Tescos notice  of variation is unclear and is concerned shes been  
charged interest despite clearing her balance. As Mrs A remains  unhappy her complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicators set out the various  ways Tesco contacted Mrs A about the upcoming 
changes it intended  to make to the credit card terms so I wont repeat  them  in detail here. 
But I will say that, from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied Tesco  contacted Mrs A before it 
introduced the changes. 
The notice of variation Tesco sent explains a 3.99% handling fee will apply from 1 June 2018 
on a range of transactions, including  those to repay borrowing. Tesco gives  loans and 
mortgages as examples  of types of borrowing that can attract the handling fee. But Im 
satisfied these types of borrowing were highlighted  as an example, not a complete list. 
Ive not found  the notice of variation is unclear and I think by referring to Repaying  borrowing 
Tescos confirmed that paying off funds owed elsewhere will mean the handling fee of 3.99% 
applies. That includes paying money to another credit card provider.  
As I think  both the wording of the information  Mrs A was sent was clear and the charge has 
been correctly  applied in line with the revised terms Im not telling Tesco to refund it. 
Ref: DRN16430392Mrs A has asked  why shes been  charged  interest  on her account. The monthly statements 
Tesco sends  Mrs A explain  when  an interest  free period will apply to transactions.  It says 
There is no interest free period on cash withdrawals, cash  transactions, balance  transfers  or 
money transfers. The notice of variation  explains that payments used to repay borrowing will 
be considered  as cash handling transactions.  As set out above, cash transactions  dont 
qualify for an interest free period so Tesco was able to apply interest to the payment. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs A but Ive not found any evidence that Tescos made a mistake or 
dealt with her complaint  unfairly. As a result, Im not telling Tesco  to take any further action 
to resolve this complaint. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1643039