K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Santander  in 1990. At the same time they were  sold 
a PPI policy which wouldve covered their mortgage  repayments for up to 24 months at a 
time if either  of them was too ill to work.
Mr and Mrs H say they were mis-led into believing they had to have the PPI. They  say they 
werent given all the information they needed.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree, so their case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs H dont claim that they didnt agree to take the PPI, but they say that they were 
mis-led into believing they had to have it to get the mortgage. Mr and Mrs H havent said 
what happened to make them think they had to have the PPI, although  as the meeting 
occurred nearly 30 years  ago I dont  think this is surprising.
Santander has been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  application.  While 
they didnt select  PPI at this point in their application, the form makes  it clear that its not 
compulsory. If theyd  been told otherwise by a representative, I think  theyd have  queried  this 
when they saw the application form. 
Mr and Mrs H went on to complete a separate application form for the PPI where they made 
individual choices  about the type and level of cover  they required. 
On the limited information I have I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it. 
Santander made a personal recommendation to Mr and Mrs H to buy the policy, so it had to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them. Looking at their circumstances at 
the time I think it was suitable. I say this because:
Both Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policy and werent  affected  by any terms 
which mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions;
Neither Mr nor Mrs H were entitled to more than statutory sick pay from their 
employers, so I think if either of them was too ill to work the policy  wouldve been  
useful protection;
Ref: DRN12390862The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled at any time without penalty. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information  they ideally shouldve  
had to make  their minds  up. But I dont think more  or better  information wouldve 
changed their minds about  buying it because the policy was suitable for them in the way Ive 
described above.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs H lost out as a result  of anything Santander mightve  done  
wrong.. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, so it follows  that Santander UK Plc doesnt  
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1239086