K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited paid the money 
owed under a life and critical illness policy to the wrong person.
background
Miss Ms mother, Mrs M, held a policy with Royal London. Mrs M made  a claim for critical 
illness in August 2017, but sadly died shortly  afterwards.  The death benefit  provided by the 
policy was held in trust,  and the only remaining trustee was Miss M.
Miss M told us that Royal London paid the death  benefit to her stepfather,  a Mr B, without 
her consent.  Miss M has told the police about Mr Bs actions.
Miss M also told us that Royal Londons records showed the wrong  address for her, and that 
she doesnt believe Royal London acted fairly in paying the money  to her stepfathers 
account.
Royal London told us:
Miss M signed a form of discharge in October  2017, confirming that the money 
should be paid to Mr Bs account. It is satisfied that the signature  on that form is 
Miss Ms.
It believes it did have the correct address for Miss M. The other address mentioned  
belonged to a person who witnessed a document, and it considers  there  may have 
been some confusion as a result.
Ultimately,  it paid the death benefit  from the policy in accordance with the instructions 
Miss M gave on the discharge form. It is therefore satisfied that it did not do anything 
wrong.
When our investigator asked Miss M about the discharge form, she did not deny  signing it  
but she also said she couldnt remember why she signed it. The form was completed shortly 
after her mothers death, and she was unwell herself at the time. 
Miss M also noted that her signature  is on the first page of the form only. Her stepfathers  
bank details are on the second page of the form, and she said she neither saw nor signed 
that page. She said Mr B told her that her mother wanted her brother to receive the money  
from the policy when  he reached the age of 25. She later discovered that her brother hadnt 
received any money from the policy, and so she complained to Royal London in 
December 2018.
Our investigator said he didnt think Royal London had acted unfairly. Miss M disagreed, so 
the complaint  was referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN11283852Its clear that Miss M has been through an extremely difficult time,  and Im sorry to disappoint  
her further.  However, I dont think Royal London  has done anything  wrong  here. It didnt 
have to pay the death benefit from the policy  into an account in Miss Ms name   it only had 
to pay the money  according to her instructions.  
I am satisfied that Royal London did receive  a discharge form, signed by Miss M, instructing 
it to pay the death  benefit into Mr Bs bank account.  I understand that Miss M is unhappy that 
the bank account details  were not on the same page  as her signature, but I dont  think  that 
makes the discharge  form invalid.  Royal London  therefore followed Miss Ms instructions  
when it paid her stepfather.
I acknowledge that Miss M says her stepfather has not done what  she expected him to do 
with the money.  But I think that is a dispute between Miss M and her stepfather  rather  than 
between Miss M and Royal London. I dont think it would  be fair for me to order Royal 
London to pay anything to Miss M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The Royal London  Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1128385