K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms V says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax plc (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Vs signed credit  card application. And on it I can see theres a 
section headed  Product details. The box which represents the option for PPI  called 
Credit Card Repayment Insurance  has a cross in it. The box next to this for Card 
Care has been left empty. 
So I think, following  a discussion about PPI in branch, Halifax most  likely made  it clear  
that Ms V didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms V so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms V about the PPI  including  its cost    
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms V has said, but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms V paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Ms V back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms V now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1432125