K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Tesco  Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) removed the introductory rate on his 
credit card earlier than agreed.  
background
Mr W brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response he received from 
Tesco to his concerns.  Mr W said the introductory rate on the card was due to apply for 18 
months. But hed been charged  the standard rate of interest several months earlier  and 
wasnt given any notification from Tesco that it was due to come  to an end. He asked for a 
refund of the interest  hed paid.
Tesco didnt  agree they hadnt communicated the end of the interest  free period to Mr W  
so they didnt uphold the complaint.  Tesco  told Mr W when  he first applied for the card the 
introductory rate and its duration was part of his terms  and conditions.  They  said when this 
rate was coming  to an end they displayed this message on his July 2018  statement 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION  - Please  note that your introductory  balance transfer rate will 
expire 14/09/2018, the standard monthly variable rate will apply after that date. Tesco said 
they also wrote to Mr W separately on 24 August 2018 to inform  him that the offer was 
ending. They did place an interest  waiver on Mr Ws next statement to allow  him time to pay 
off the balance in full if that was his intention.
Our investigator thought he couldnt fairly say Tesco didnt reasonably  try to make Mr W 
aware of the introductory rate coming  to an end. So he didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought  the introductory rate on balance transfers onto this card was for 
15 months and this was what  both parties agreed to. He also thought the end date was 
noted on the July 2018 statement  which was accessible o Mr W via the online banking 
service and a separate letter was sent to his address.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed been  told verbally  it was an 18 month interest  free period 
and asked for a copy of the call recording with Tesco. He said although hed asked for paper 
statements hed never receive them and hadnt received anything  from Tesco  other than the 
form to set up a direct  debit for payment. He thought Tescos suggestion he should check 
the internet wasnt an acceptable answer  and it felt like an excuse.
The investigator issued  a second  view and told Mr W he didnt feel the new information  
provided would alter his opinion  on the complaint. He said this was as the application for the 
account appears to have  been made online  and as such the credit  agreement - which  would 
have had to have been read and agreed to - included length of time for the interest free 
period. Mr W asked  for an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Tesco  have sent satisfies me this agreement which was taken out online -
and agreed to by Mr W with a digital  signature on 4 June 2017  stipulated  an introductory  
interest free period  for balance transfers  of 15 months. Im also satisfied  Tesco notified Mr W 
shortly before the period  was due to end that this was the case and of the interest charges 
hed face at that point. 
Ref: DRN13035422I have sympathy with Mr W and the position he finds himself in. And I dont doubt  him when 
he says he not received  statements - this isnt an account that sends paper statements. 
Theyre online and monthly notification is sent that theyre available to view. But in the 
information Tesco has sent theres nothing  to suggest the statements werent  available.  And 
the screenshot from Tesco  communications system  evidences their emails - to the address 
Mr W provided during the application - were  not being returned.  So, like the investigator,  I 
think its reasonable to conclude  those  emails Tesco sent to Mr W were  successfully sent.  
On Mr Ws own evidence he allowed this account  to operate without  having  access to a copy 
of the original agreement or the monthly statements for just less than 15 months. Although 
Mr W says he asked for paper statements and was ignored he accepts that with hindsight  he 
shouldve pursued  this lack of information harder. And Id agree with him on this point.  Its 
Mr Ws responsibility to manage this account  within the terms and conditions he agreed to. If 
he wasnt getting the basic information he needed to manage  the account   particularly as 
there was a discrepancy between what he was told verbally about the duration of the 
introductory rate and the information  he agreed  to online during the application  about  that 
duration - he should have  raised concerns earlier.
From the information Tesco has sent us theres  nothing to suggest  the statements  werent  
available. Additionally in Mr Ws case I think he wouldve been  further  alerted to the 
promotional period ending by letter dated 24 August 2018. I acknowledge Mr W says he 
didnt receive this letter from Tesco. But Ive seen a copy  of it and Im satisfied it was sent. I 
dont know why it is that Mr W didnt get this letter  when he did receive the final response 
letter at the same address. But I cannot safely conclude that this is as a result of something  
Tesco has done  wrong.
So, overall, I cant reasonably say Tesco  have  done  anything wrong here.  Given  how 
strongly Mr W feels about what happened  he may want to pursue the matter further through 
other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what we  in trying to resolve  his dispute with 
Tesco informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1303542