K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about a mortgage  endowment policy he took out through Abbey 
National (now Santander UK Plc) in 1998.
background
Mr N complained about his policy and Santander made an offer of redress.  It took into 
account the fact hed decided to stop paying into the policy in May 2002,  so it calculated his 
loss up until the date of the first missed premium  which was 13 June 2002. It added 
interest on that loss up to the date of the offer, which gave a redress amount of £1,786.34. It 
also offered £100  for the delay in dealing with his complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr N referred the matter to us. Our investigator  thought  the offer was fair. 
Mr N didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill keep  my comments to what  I think is relevant. 
If I dont comment  on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because  
I dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is the right outcome.
We typically award compensation worked out using the guidance "Handling Mortgage  
Endowment Complaints" issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (previously the Financial 
Services Authority).
Santander worked out (as at 13 June  2002)  how much Mr N would have paid off a 
repayment mortgage and compared  it with the surrender value of the policy  at that time.  The 
calculation also compared the amount that Mr N had paid in endowment  premiums and 
interest on the mortgage loan with the amount  that he would  have paid in total on an 
equivalent repayment mortgage.  
Santander capped  the calculation at that the date as Mr N has told us he was no longer 
intending on using  the policy to repay his mortgage. Having looked at everything I agree 
thats the fair thing to do. Mr N has said  after my mortgage offer was confirmed I 
cancelled this policy as it was looking a pretty bad investment. So its clear  he knew,  at least  
by this time,  about  the risks of the policy so he could have taken action then to complain 
about the policy, surrender it and use the total funds to reduce his mortgage balance.
Mr N says he didnt know he could surrender the policy, and only found out by chance  in 
January 2003.  He thinks Santander should  have  told him. But thats not the case;  there was 
no regulatory requirement for Santander to tell Mr N to surrender his policy when he chose 
to stop paying into it. And I cant hold Santander  liable  for not doing something it simply 
didnt have to do.
Santander is liable for Mr Ns loss up until he stopped paying his policy  premiums,  thus 
therefore was no longer  using it for his mortgage repayment. Had Mr N surrendered the 
policy and complained at that time then the total amount he would have received would have 
Ref: DRN18693482 had he paid both sums off his mortgage   put him in the position he would have been in if 
hed instead taken an equivalent  repayment  mortgage in 1998.
I understand Mr N is concerned that he got back a lot less than he paid in, and that by the 
time he surrendered  the policy in January 2003  the value was less than that used in the 
calculation as the value from June 2002.
Mortgage endowment  policies  were  intended to be long term investment products, and there  
was always a risk if they were surrendered  early   especially as early as this one was  that 
the policyholder  would get back less than theyd  paid in. That was normal. As was the fact 
the value fell between June 2002  and January 2003. In that time there would still have been 
deductions for the underlying life and critical illness cover provided  by the policy, and as it 
was a unit-linked plan the value would vary day-by-day and could go down as well as up.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  Santander used the correct formula and figures 
to calculate Mr Ns loss. Im also satisfied it was right to cap the calculation  in June 2002 
when Mr N stopped  paying into the policy.
I understand Santander was looking into Mr Ns complaint  about  his replacement mortgage  
from June 2002  as a separate matter  and so I cant consider anything about that here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc, to the extent that its already made a 
fair and reasonable offer. I leave it to Mr N to decide if now,  on reflection, he wants  to accept  
that offer. I make no further order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1869348