K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s  decision not to 
cover repairs  to the garage at their property under a buildings  warranty.  
background
Mr and Mrs B purchased a house  which had a garage as part of the property.  When they did 
so, there  was 2 years  remaining  on a buildings warranty provided by NHBC. Within a few 
months of moving in, they reported that there was damage to the house,  as cracks had 
appeared on walls and a floor screed. 
NHBC appointed  agents to undertake  enquiries  which included  monitoring the property for 
movement. It established  that the property was moving because  of drainage  issues  and this 
was causing the damage  which had been  noted.  It agreed to cover the damage to the house  
but said it wouldnt cover  works  to the garage.
NHBC said it couldnt cover works  to the garage  for two reasons. It said the claim for the 
garage had been notified after the warranty expired. And in any case, it said the conditions  
of the warranty were that it would cover for repairs where a defect had caused  damage to 
the property. It said that while it accepted the garage was moving, there hadnt been any 
damage caused by this movement.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept this. They said the warrantys terms and conditions said that the 
garage was included in the definition of a house.  And that the monitoring carried  out by 
NHBC had included checking the garage  for movement.  They  also said they hadnt been 
given any indication that repairs to the garage  might  not be covered until after the warranty  
period had expired.
When NHBC didnt change its position, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think NHBC had done anything wrong. She thought  the important 
point was that there was no damage to the garage. And the terms and conditions said that 
works would only be covered  when damage  had occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B have  asked for an ombudsmans  decision. They say that the movement noted 
to the garage  does  constitute damage. And they also argue that the works  to the garage 
should be considered as part of the same  claim as the damage to the house.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The warranty for Mr and Mrs Bs house has a section  which  provides cover  for issues  which 
occur between 3 and 10 years after the property has been built.  The terms and conditions 
say NHBC will pay The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting  right any actual 
physical Damage caused by a Defect .
This means  that there are three  elements which must all be met in order  for a claim under 
this section of the warranty. There must be damage, which  is further defined in the 
warrantys terms and conditions as physical damage, the damage must be caused by a 
defect and the cost of repairing the damage must  be more than £1000  indexed.
Ref: DRN19314652Theres no dispute from NHBC  that damage has been caused to Mr and Mrs Bs property by 
a defect, and that the cost of repairing the damage  will exceed £1000. Theres damage to 
the house itself,  but whats in dispute  is whether theres any damage to the garage.  
Mr and Mrs B point  to evidence which shows that the garage  has moved. Again, NHBC dont 
dispute this point, but say that movement  isnt damage. Ive seen nothing  to show  cracking,  
or other similar damage to the garage. Such damage is present in the house itself, and is to 
be repaired  by NHBC. 
Im particularly mindful that the warrantys terms and conditions  define damage as physical 
damage. And as this isnt defined further, I have to take the ordinary meaning of this. And I 
dont think that movement alone,  without  any evidence of cracking or collapse,  can be 
considered to be within the definition of physical  damage. The evidence is that while the 
garage has moved, the structure of the garage hasnt been damaged or compromised.
This is all in contrast to the house, which does  show evidence of cracking to the walls and 
floor. Its clear this is physical damage. And so NHBC has agreed to cover repairs to rectify 
this under the warranty. But the warranty doesnt provide cover for preventative work to 
prevent damage  occurring, which is what the suggested works would be in the case of the 
garage.
Mr and Mrs B also argue  that, as works are being carried  out to the house, the cover should  
extend to the garage as the definition of home in the terms and conditions includes a 
garage. I can see this is the case,  but Im not persuaded  that that repairs  being carried  out 
on the house mean that the works  to the garage should be covered on the same  claim.
Im satisfied that the definitions in the warranty extending to cover  garages is intended to 
provide cover for all parts of a property which have been built and covered by the warranty.  
In other  words, its intended to provide cover where  a garage is damaged by a defect  but not 
the house. I dont  think  it can be interpreted to mean  that as soon as a claim is covered for 
one part of the property, any and all work to the rest of the property  is also covered on the 
same claim. Its a reasonable interpretation  to say that the warranty  covers  works carried  out 
to repair  damage caused  by a defect, not that all works are covered when damage is caused  
by a defect.
In order for works to the garage to be covered the conditions of the warranty  need  to be met. 
And as Ive said, I dont  think  the evidence shows the garage has been  damaged,  so works 
to it arent  covered  by the warranty. 
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1931465