K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr W 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
background
Mr W took out a credit  card with BoS in 1998.  At the same time he was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments  on his card if he couldnt work.  It also offered 
some life cover. 
Mr W says he didnt know he had the PPI. He says he didnt give his consent for it to be 
added.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagrees,  so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.
Nt
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. The application 
form Mr W signed showed he had a choice. And although the cross in the box for PPI 
is electronically populated I think this happened  as a result  of a conversation he had 
with a BoS adviser.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover  Mr W wasnt entitled to any contractual  
sick pay or redundancy pay, and he didnt  have any other means to pay his credit 
card if he couldnt  work. Mr W says that his friends and family wouldve helped out, 
but I dont think  Mr W couldve  relied on this as other peoples  circumstances can 
change too.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  I 
also havent seen  anything to suggest  it was unaffordable for Mr W. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what he has said about not claiming 
when he became unemployed on two occasion,   but these points dont change my decision. 
If Mr W feels that he couldve made a successful claim on his policy  he may wish to contact  
the insurer to see if it is possible to submit a retrospective claim.
Ref: DRN15427062This means  I dont  think Mr W lost out because of anything BoS mightve  done  wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint so it follows that Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1542706