K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mr B complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined  their 
claim for their dogs treatment under  their pet insurance policy.
background
Mr S and Mr B have had pet insurance for their dog with RSA since  March 2018.  They  have 
a standard policy  which  provides cover for vet fees up to a total limit of £4000 each year, 
with a limit of £1000  for each separate illness or injury. 
Mr S and Mr Bs dog had been treated for a right hind cruciate ligament rupture in March  
2018. Treatment for this wasnt covered as the condition  started  before they took out cover 
with RSA.
In December 2018 the dog was diagnosed as suffering from a left hind cranial  cruciate 
ligament rupture, which it had surgery to repair. In January 2019 Mr S submitted a claim to 
RSA for the dogs  treatment, which was declined. 
In early February 2019 Mr S and Mr Bs vet wrote to RSA saying  he didnt believe the dogs 
left cruciate rupture was linked to the right cruciate  rupture it had in March 2018. And that the 
dogs right and left legs are separate anatomically and so even such  a similar injury, in an 
opposing leg, must be classed as a separate injury. RSA didnt change its decision but told 
Mr S and Mr B a complaint had been raised for them.
In late February 2019 Mr S and Mr B complained to our service.
RSA then responded to their complaint. It said the dogs veterinary records  showed that both 
cruciate ruptures were gradual in onset and had signs  of chronic changes,  highlighting a 
degenerative process. While Mr S and Mr Bs vet had said the cruciate ruptures were 
unrelated, RSA said that in considering a claim it assesses the proximate cause and here, 
as both of the dogs  hind cruciate ligaments suffered the same degenerative disease 
process, and had the same proximate cause, they are assessed  as one condition. 
RSA also said that it had tried to speak to Mr S and Mr Bs vet to discuss why he thought  the 
conditions were unrelated, but had been unable to do so. And it didnt  uphold  their complaint 
as it said it thought their claim had been correctly declined. In early June 2019  RSA 
contacted them to say it had heard from their vet, but the information provided  didnt  change  
its decision to decline their claim.
When our investigator considered the case, he acknowledged that there  was a disagreement 
between the treating vet and RSAs vet, about  whether the dogs left cruciate  rupture was 
caused by an underlying  disease. But he said where  medical professionals involved in a 
claim couldnt reach a consensus, that couldnt be held against  the claimant. And as there 
was no consensus here, he felt it was unfair  for the claim to be declined on that basis, and 
he said RSA should reconsider  the claim for the left hind cruciate  rupture.
RSA didnt accept  our investigators  opinion and arranged for their in-house vet to discuss 
the claim with Mr S and Mr Bs vet. Having listened to the vets discussion our investigator 
felt that both vets now seemed to agree that both cruciate ruptures were linked to a pre-
existing medical condition, cruciate  disease. And on this basis he felt RSAs original decision 
to decline the claim  was fair, and the claim didnt  need to be paid.
Ref: DRN17064602Mr S and Mr B werent happy with this so the case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has declined Mr S and Mr Bs claim because  it believes their dogs  left cruciate 
ligament rupture arose from the same  cause, as its earlier right cruciate ligament rupture, 
pre-existing degenerative  disease.
The policy under the heading  Linked conditions states If a number of injuries or illnesses or 
changes in your pets  health or behaviour are diagnosed by a treating vet as one injury or 
illness, or the treating vet considers that they are linked to another previously insured injury  
or illness, we will treat this as one condition and payments  for all vet treatment will stop once  
we have paid up to the limits provided by the Essential cover. 
Mr S and Mr Bs claim for their dogs right cruciate ligament rupture was declined  as it pre-
dated the start of the policy. So if the left cruciate ligament rupture is due to the same 
underlying condition as the earlier rupture, it isnt covered by the policy.
Their vet wrote two letters to RSA in which he said he didnt believe the conditions to be 
linked. 
RSAs vet and Mr S and Mr Bs vet discussed the case at the end of July 2019. Ive listened  
to the call and the treating vets point  is thats theres  nothing to prove that the left cruciate 
ligament being  claimed for isnt a result of trauma.  But thats not in my view enough to say 
the two conditions are unrelated. To be persuaded of this, Id expect to see clear evidence  to 
explain why the underlying cause,  of the two problems experienced by the dog, are different. 
Having reviewed everything, Im not satisfied  that this is the case.
During the call RSAs vet made the point  that on the balance of probabilities the cause of 
both ligament ruptures  appears to be related. And he thought the cause  was likely to be 
underlying cruciate  disease. He said this because there was no evidence of trauma  and
Mr S and Mr B hadnt reported any injury. In addition the history  they gave was suggestive of 
a grumbling  lameness over several  weeks. RSAs vet made the point that if the lameness 
being claimed for was a result  of trauma,  hed have expected there  to be an acute onset, 
rather than a gradual decline.
I think that overall, particularly taking  into account  that the dogs lameness appears to have  
developed gradually, I find RSAs vets reasoning  more  persuasive. And in the absence of 
any evidence to suggest another cause, I think its most likely that the dogs left cruciate 
rupture was linked to its earlier right cruciate rupture, and because of this it isnt covered by 
the policy.
During the telephone conversation RSAs vet refers to asking for a note to be added to the 
dogs records, after the claim  for the right cruciate  rupture was declined, to say future 
cruciate ruptures might  not be covered. And he says this wasnt done. While this wasnt  
done I dont think  it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say so because  
the policy terms wouldnt have covered  the second  cruciate rupture in any case.  So whilst its 
Ref: DRN17064603possible a warning might have helped manage Mr S and Mr Bs expectations,  I dont think it 
wouldve changed the position they now find themselves in.
As Im persuaded that the dogs cruciate ruptures were linked, I dont think RSA did anything  
wrong in declining the claim and I wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr S and Mr Bs 
complaint against  Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706460