K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about numerous issues he has experienced as a customer  of Santander UK 
Plc.
background
Mr S has a savings account with Santander. He also used to have a current  account with the 
same bank. In April 2019 he asked our Service to consider the following issues:
He wasnt told his accounts IBAN number, which he says he needed to receive 
payments from the DWP and from a friend,
He didnt receive the 2019 statement for his savings account,
Santander doesnt accept unsecure emails from its customers,
When he phones Santander to discuss his savings account,  the call handlers  ask him 
for his sort code to identify him, but savings  accounts dont have sort codes,
While  he was abroad his debit card was retained  by a cash machine, and some 
related issues,
Santander has sent him three  codes with which to access his accounts online, but 
they didnt work,
When he applied for a cheque book online,  he couldnt complete the application 
because the website wouldnt recognise  his post code.
Santander said that most of the above  issues have already been considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service before, in previous  complaints which are now closed. Our investigator 
agreed with that. In response to the issues which hadnt been  considered  before, the bank 
said:
If Mr S tells the call handler  that he is calling about a savings account, they wont  ask 
him for a sort code,  and his account  number  will do.
If he cant send secure  emails, he can get in touch by phone  or by online banking.
Cheque books are only issued in relation to current  accounts,  and current  accounts 
are only for people who are resident in the UK.
Our investigator accepted those explanations, and did not uphold  this complaint. Mr S asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision  in respect  of all of his complaint points.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has had three previous complaints with our Service which are relevant to the issues 
raised in this complaint. They were each considered by different investigators, and I have 
read each  of their decisions, which are dated  13 October 2017, 17 January 2019 and 22 
October 2019. (The investigators opinion in this case was issued in November.) Having  read 
them, I can see that one dealt with the problem with the cash  machine and the related 
matters, and the others dealt with the IBAN problem. Mr S didnt appeal against those 
decisions. So I wont consider the cash machine  problem again. But since  receiving the first 
decision about his IBAN, Mr S has experienced a similar problem while trying to receive  an 
international payment from a friend. The two decisions he has already had were only about 
Ref: DRN16754412his difficulties in getting paid by the DWP.  So I will consider that part of this complaint, 
because although  it is very similar  to the previous complaint,  it is still a new issue.
However, I dont uphold Mr Ss new complaint about  not being  told his IBAN. It was on his 
statements, but I will ignore that because he says he didnt receive those. But it was also 
provided to him in the investigators decision in January 2019 (this was copied  accurately 
from Mr Ss 2012 statement, which I have checked). In any case, if he lost that decision he 
could have phoned our Service or Santander  and we or the bank  would have provided him 
with this information again.  If he phones  the bank and explains that he is only calling about  a 
savings account,  then he wont be asked for a sort code. If the call handlers usually ask for a 
sort code  at the start of the call, I think thats just because most of the calls they get are 
about other accounts, so they assume thats what  hes calling about.
If Mr S didnt receive his 2019 statement, that is likely to be because it was lost in the post, 
not because the bank  never sent it. The reason  I think  that is because that was the answer 
to his earlier complaint  about not receiving  his statements in 2017 and 2018. He may view 
his 2019 statement online, or phone Santander  and ask them  to send  it again.  Santander  
has provided evidence  that Mr S did manage  to log in to online banking  in August 2019.
I dont think its unreasonable of Santander not to accept unsecure emails.  Other  ways to 
communicate are available.
If Mr S wants a cheque book, he will only be eligible for one if his permanent place of 
residence is in the UK, and it will have to be sent to that address. Otherwise he will need to 
open an account with a bank in another country.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1675441