K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that J D Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly provided him with a 
credit facility. Mr M also says the interest  rate on the facility  was increased several times and 
that he hadnt been able to agree a suitable repayment plan with J D Williams.
background
J D Williams lent Mr M a credit  facility which he signed an agreement  for in October 2011. 
The starting limit on the facility was £150  and by January 2016, the limit was increased to 
£3,500. From the information provided,  the limit changes  are as follows:
Date Limit (£)
October 2011 150
November 2011 250
December 2011 400
January 2012 600
February 2012 750
June 2012 1,100
September 2012 1,600
November 2012 2,000
February 2013 2,250
October 2013 3,000
January 2016 3,500
Mr M fell into financial  difficulties  and in March 2019, J D Williams confirmed that the account 
was in arrears and agreed to place the account  on hold for 28 days.  The account statement 
we hold on file show that Mr M has an outstanding balance of over £3,000.
When Mr M complained to J D Williams, it didnt uphold his complaint.  Unhappy with J D 
Williams response  Mr M referred his complaint to this service  where  it was looked at by one 
of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr M was irresponsibly lent the increases on and after February 
2013. Our adjudicator also thought J D Williams  dealt sympathetically with Mr M when it 
knew he was in financial difficulties. Our adjudicator also thought that there was no evidence 
to show that the interest rate on the facility  was increased and so he didnt  think  J D Williams 
had acted unfairly in some other  way.
J D Williams didnt respond  to the adjudicators view and as the complaint remains  
unresolved, its been passed to me an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ref: DRN16525802Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing without 
borrowing further and adversely impacting on their financial  situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list some things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. 
J D Williams says it searched Mr Ms credit file before  agreeing the facility initially  and that it 
took into account how Mr M had managed the account before increasing the limits. And 
based on what it saw from this it thought it reasonable to lend and apply the credit  increases.
This was an open-ended facility and I think given  the nature of this facility, it would have 
been reasonable for J D Williams to have at least checked Mr Ms income in addition to its 
credit search before agreeing the facility. Mr M has said in 2011 his average  annual income 
was around £70,000. Taking into account the initial credit limit of £150 which  was relatively 
small compared to Mr Ms income, I dont think it was unreasonable  for J D Williams to lend. 
By the time of the first increase, the information J D Williams obtained  showed  that Mr Ms 
finances were in a worse  position than they were when the facility was initially agreed. J D 
Williams could see that Mr M was utilising the facility close  to its limit and was repaying very 
little above the minimum  payments. Also, I can see that the results  of the credit checks show  
that Mr Ms credit score had reduced and there was an account  hed struggle to maintain 
repayments on. And in those circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable for J D 
Williams to take its checks further to consider Mr Ms monthly income  and expenses.
J D Williams didnt increase its level of checks for any of the credit limit increases and I cant  
see that the outcome of the credit check and account monitoring show  that Mr Ms finances 
were steadily improving.  So overall,  given that J D Williams was increasing Mr Ms 
indebtedness with every increase, I dont think that J D Williams carried out enough checks 
before any of the credit limit increases.
Ive thought about what J D Williams would have  seen had it carried  out sufficient checks. 
Mr M hasnt  provided evidence about his actual financial  circumstances  for all the relevant  
period. So, Im mindful that I dont have a clear picture of Mr Ms financial circumstances for 
the whole  period of lending that would suggest  that all the credit limit increases were  
unaffordable for him.
However, Mr M has provided a copy of his credit file from 2013 onwards,  he has also told 
this service that in 2013, he was self-employed with an annual  income  of around £25,000. 
Mr M has also provided a detailed credit check in 2013 show  that he was borrowing from a 
number of short-term  lenders at it time, the results of the check also show  that he was in 
debt management  plan, the outstanding balance on at least  one of these plans was close  
the limit on that account. This something  that I think J D Williams  saw and the summary of its 
credit search shows that Mr M had three  accounts  he was struggling  to repay. Also,  J D 
Williams could see how Mr M had mostly been  making the minimum payments towards the 
outstanding balance on his credit with it except for one occasion.
Ref: DRN16525803At this point, I think J D Williams ought to have been  reasonably aware that Mr M would 
struggle to get himself out of debt and the lending wasnt sustainable. And so, it follows  that 
I dont think J D William should  have  given Mr M the credit  increase on 20 February  2013  
and any subsequent ones. J D Williams needs  to put things right.
Did J D Williams  act unfairly in some other way?
Mr M has also said that J D Williams  increased  the interest rate on his account  several  time.  
I can see from the signed agreement for this facility that it explains that the interest  rate was 
58.7% variable and that statements would be issued in 28-day cycles.  Mr M signed this 
agreement, so J D Williams made  Mr M aware  of the interest  rate and the statement cycles.  
This service has asked J D Williams for details of any interest rate increases and it has said 
the interest rate on Mr Ms account wasnt increased and remained the same throughout. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show that there  were  interest  rate increases.
Mr M has also said hed been unable to reach a suitable payment agreement  with J D 
Williams when he fell into financial difficulties. I can see that Mr M started making  payments 
of £50 towards the account balance in January  and February 2019.  The payments were  
below the statement limit and J D Williams has accepted that Mr M was in financial 
difficulties and agreed to place  his account on hold for 28 days  and advised  him on where he 
could get help. I can see that a repayment plan has now been agreed with Mr M and J D 
Williams hasnt continued to add interest and charges to Mr Ms account. Overall,  I think  J D 
Williams has treated  Mr M sympathetically and positively.
 
putting things right  what J D Williams  needs  to do
J D Williams says it has now sold the debt to a third party so it should either buy the debt 
back or ensure  the third party carries out the following steps to put things right for Mr M.
Remove any interest due in relation  to changes to Mr Ms credit limit after, and 
including, 20 February 2013. So, in effect,  from that date J D Williams should only 
charge interest  on the first £2,000 of any outstanding  balance.  
Recalculate Mr Ms running account  balance taking into consideration the adjustment  
noted above. Any repayments  made by Mr M should be used to reduce the 
outstanding balance.  
For any periods where the recalculated balance is in credit, J D Williams should pay 
Mr M interest on the credit amount  at a rate of 8% simple per annum*  for the period 
the account remains in credit. 
Should a credit  balance remain on the account  at the conclusion  of all the 
adjustments this should be refunded to Mr M together with 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement. If an outstanding 
balance remains, I would remind J D Williams that it should  treat Mr M 
sympathetically when  seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan. 
Remove any negative  information added to Mr Ms credit file from 20 February 2013 
onwards. 
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D Williams  must  
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
Ref: DRN16525804my final decision
For the reason  stated  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and require J D Williams  to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1652580