K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with State  Bank  of India  (UK) Limited (SBOI) and their failure to 
make them aware of interest  rate changes on their savings account.
background
Mr and Mrs K opened a savings account  with SBOI in 2011. This account had an interest
rate of 1.5%.  In late 2016 - early 2017, Mr and Mrs K attended a local branch where they
were told the interest rate would remain  fixed at that level as they were  loyal customers.
But Mr and Mrs K noticed  on their 2017-2018 statement that the interest  rate had dropped  to
0.5%. They were unhappy not only about the reduction but also the fact they didnt receive
notification prior to the change. Because  of this, they felt theyd  lost out financially on the
interest they thought was being  accrued  so raised a complaint.
SBOI said theyd emailed Mr and Mrs K to make  them aware of the change in interest,  in line
with the terms and conditions of the agreement. They also explained that loyalty  rates
werent available on the savings account  Mr and Mrs K held. So, they didnt think  theyd
done anything  wrong. Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this response,  so they referred their
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought  SBOI  had done
enough to make Mr and Mrs K aware  of the upcoming interest rate changes, despite any
advice they were given  in branch. So, he didnt think SBOI needed to take any further  action.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with this view. They maintained they didnt receive any notification
that the interest rates were changing so they thought SBOI should refund them the interest  
the account wouldve accrued had the interest  remained the same. As Mr and Mrs K didnt 
agree, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provision decision on 2 March 2021,  where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold Mr and
Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
First, I want to explain that SBOl are entitled to change the interest  rates attached to their
accounts. So, it would be unfair for me to deem  their decision to reduce the rate from 1.5%
to 0.5%  to be unreasonable. But I would expect  them to have given  Mr and Mrs K
reasonable notice,  in a durable medium, before the rates changed to fall in line with the
Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook.  This would provide Mr and Mrs K the opportunity
to move the balance, which I note was of material value, if they were unhappy.
SBOl say e-mails were  sent to Mr and Mrs K through a third-party provider, giving
reasonable notice of the interest  changes.  Mr and Mrs K say these e-mails werent received
and they only realised there had been a change after analysing  an annual  statement. Due to
the length of time its been since the interest rate changes, SBOl have been unable  to
provide copies of the actual e-mails that were  sent so Ive considered  the information I have
available to me to decide whether I think its likely  the e-mails were  sent.
SBOl have provided a screenshot  of their internal system which shows they held the correct
e-mail address. So, I think they wouldve been  able to send  e-mail  updates  to Mr and Mrs K.
Ref: DRN18622142But SBOl  have also provided me with copies of example  letters that wouldve been sent to
Mr and Mrs K as attachments to the e-mails.  One of the example letters states We sent an
e-mail at the end of April informing you of the rate change, but our records  show that the 
email was bounced back and may not have  been delivered" before going  on to explain how
an e-mail  address can be changed if necessary.
Because of this, I think its likely  that at some  point, SBOl experienced issues  when sending
e-mails to Mr and Mrs K. So, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs K didnt receive the 
emails as theyve explained.  I cant see SBOl attempted  to contact  Mr and Mrs K by another
method to make Mr and Mrs K aware of the issue or about the interest  rate changes.  So, on
balance, I dont think SBOl gave Mr and Mrs K reasonable  notice about the interest rate
changes.
But Mr and Mrs K have  confirmed they were  able to request statements and other
information on their account.  They also confirmed they received an annual summary of the
account which depicted  the interest  rates. And I think Mr and Mrs K had a responsibility to
manage their own account  and understand what interest rates were being  applied.
Im aware Mr and Mrs K say they were told the rates wouldnt change  in branch so didnt feel
the need to check them.  I dont doubt  that these  are Mr and Mrs Ks recollections. But, as
Ive not seen any evidence to show this conversation.  Ive had to consider the evidence  I
have available  to decide whether I think this advice was more  likely than not provided  to Mr
and Mrs K. And in this instance,  I dont think  it would  be fair to me to decide  that it was.
SBOl have said that the savings account  Mr and Mrs K hold doesnt qualify for loyalty  rates.
So, I wouldnt expect the branch to give Mr and Mrs K information  about the savings account
that wasnt correct. Even if this advice was provided, I dont think this takes away from the
responsibility Mr and Mrs K hold themselves to ensure the account is operating as they
expected.
Mr and Mrs K have  explained they would like the interest they feel they lost out on when the
rates changed refunded to them in order to resolve their complaint. But Im aware  that since
noticing the reduction in the interest rate, Mr and Mrs K have continued to use the account at
the lower rate of interest. Theyve done  this as the account offer a lower  transfer  rate when
transferring amounts to India. Because of this, I think that even if Mr and Mrs K had been 
given reasonable notice  of the interest  rate reduction, its most likely they would have
continued to use the account.
So, I cant agree  theyve lost out financially and dont think it would be fair for me to
recommend SBOl refund the difference  in interest. 
That being  said,  I think SBOl have failed to give Mr and Mrs K reasonable notice by 
continuing to send all communication  by e-mail when theyd experienced previous 
difficulties. I think Mr and Mrs K wouldve  been surprised by the change in interest and this 
wouldve caused some  trouble  and upset. So, I think SBOl should make a payment of £100  
to recognise this.
responses
Both Mr and Mrs K and SBOI  disagreed  with my provisional decision,  but for different  
reasons.
Ref: DRN18622143Mr and Mrs K accepted my initial thoughts that SBOI had failed to make them reasonably 
aware of the interest change. But they didnt think the compensation I recommended  was 
enough to address the upset and inconvenience theyd caused. They did recognise  my point 
regarding the responsibility they had to manage  their own accounts.  But they explained the 
original terms  and conditions of the account  didnt mention being  updated by email and it 
was only when they enquired in branch that they were told this may be the case,  which they 
thought was unfair. They also didnt  think it was fair for their version of events surrounding 
what they were told in branch to be disregarded as it was unreasonable  to expect customers 
to ask for verbal conversations to be put in writing in order to be used as evidence. They 
maintained their view that theyd lost out on interest and that this should be refunded  to 
them. And they also thought the compensation I recommended should  be increased.
SBOI didnt agree theyd  done something  wrong.  They acknowledged they were unable  to 
show for certain that the e-mails had been received.  But they explained  there was a 
business process in place  at the time which meant  a letter was sent to a customer if an e-
mail bounced back. So, they thought Mr and Mrs K wouldve received correspondence 
notifying them of the interest  changes. And they also explained Mr and Mrs K had access to 
internet banking and they provided  a screenshot to show Mr and Mrs K requested a 
password change after the rates had been  changed.  So, they thought  Mr and Mrs K 
shouldve been  aware of the change in interest rates. So, they didnt think  they should pay 
compensation on this occasion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be changing my 
original conclusions.
Ive considered SBOIs  comments surrounding  the e-mails and whether  they bounced back. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  due to the length of time thats elapsed  since  the 
interest rate changes, the actual e-mails sent to Mr and Mrs K cant  be provided. But, the 
drafts sent to me by SBOI suggest that at some  point, e-mails bounced back  from Mr and 
Mrs Ks e-mail address. Im unable to speculate as to why that happened but on the balance  
of probability, considering  Mr and Mrs Ks testimony that they didnt receive  notification, I 
think that it did. 
And I do understand SBOI have explained there  was a process  in place where  letters 
wouldve been sent in this situation. But again, theyre unable to show for certain when these 
letters were sent and where they were sent to. Had these letters  been  sent to Mr and Mrs K, 
I dont think its likely  that Mr and Mrs K would then ask about interest rates  in branch as they 
wouldve already  had the information they needed.  Without concrete evidence  to show 
otherwise, I still dont think I can say for certain that Mr and Mrs K receive notification about  
the interest rate changes from SBOI.  So, I cant  say that SBOI have acted fairly and because 
of this, I still think compensation should  be paid to Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the compensation amount I suggested, for several reasons. 
And as Ive already explained,  I do think SBOI  failed to take reasonable steps  to ensure Mr 
and Mrs K were reasonably aware  of the interest rate change.
But when considering what compensation is reasonable,  I have  to consider what  is fair to 
both parties. And although I think SBOI had a responsibility to make Mr and Mrs K aware of 
Ref: DRN18622144the interest rate change, I do also think Mr and Mrs K had a responsibility to manage  their 
account and understand the rates it included and how it worked. Mr and Mrs K have 
confirmed they had access to account  statements, and Ive seen they also had access to 
online banking facilities. So, I think they shouldve  been aware the rates  had changed, even 
without SBOIs notification. And for me to say SBOI should refund the interest Mr and Mrs K 
feel they lost out on, Id need  to see evidence that convinces me Mr and Mrs K wouldve 
closed the account and transferred the funds to another  account  with a better rate of interest. 
And I dont  think Ive seen  evidence to show that.
Mr and Mrs K left money in the account after they realised the change in interest as they 
used the account for preferential transfer rates  to accounts in India. So, I dont think I can 
say they wouldve taken the money  and closed the account. Because  of this, Im unable  to 
know for sure how much  interest Mr and Mrs K may have lost out on as I cant  be sure how 
much they would or would  not have  transferred  out. And I also cant  be sure Mr and Mrs K 
wouldve been able to transfer  this amount  to another account with higher interest. As I 
explained in my original  decision, SBOI are able to change their interest  rates so there was 
no guarantee Mr and Mrs Ks funds  wouldve ever been subject to the higher interest rate for 
the period of time they thought it shouldve been.  This means  any compensation I suggest is 
focused solely on the trouble and inconvenience  theyve been caused  solely  by the actions 
of SBOI.
And I do think they wouldve been left upset and frustrated when they realised there had 
been a change of interest  rate. I dont dispute they werent aware at the time. But I also have 
to consider their own responsibility to understand the terms of the account theyre using. 
They were  able to access statements  as this is how they realised there  had been a change 
in the first place. So, the compensation I am awarding recognises  the initial upset they felt 
when they realised the interest had decreased and the failure of SBOI to ensure Mr and Mrs 
K were notified in advance. With this in mind, I think a payment of £100 is a fair one that 
recognise this whilst also taking into consideration the responsibilities Mr and Mrs K held.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about  State  Bank Of 
India (UK) Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr and Mrs K £100 to recognise  the upset theyve been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2021.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1862214