K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a member of staff at Barclays Bank UK PLC tried to grab his phone  
when he visited a branch. 
background
Mr D visited Barclays  on 3 June 2019  to withdraw some money. His bank card wasnt 
working and replacement had previously been order.  Mr D was asked  to provide some 
information which he didnt have available and hes told us the situation turned into an 
argument. 
Another member of staff approached Mr D. Hes told us the second member of staff tried to 
grab his phone out of his hand. 
Mr D went on to complain but Barclays didnt agree it had done anything  wrong.  Mr D 
referred his complaint to our service  and an investigator looked at what had happened. The 
investigator said that Barclays hadnt  kept the CCTV footage  so it wasnt available  to review. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint  and said its not our role to punish 
businesses. Mr D didnt agree with the investigators  view so his complaints been passed  to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that it would have been useful  if Barclays had retained the CCTV footage. Its 
particularly frustrating given Mr D quickly complained  and we requested  information  relating 
to his case shortly after the events  hes raised. But I have no reason to doubt  Barclays  claim 
that the footage is no longer available. 
Barclays has provided detailed statements from the staff involved. And Mr D has told us 
what happened as well. I understand  that when Mr D visited the branch to withdraw money 
he was asked to give information about his account and access his mobile  banking  
application. Mr D says a manager then tried to grab his phone after an argument started  with 
the original member of staff he was speaking to. 
But the member of staff in question says he wasnt trying to grab Mr Ds phone,  he was 
trying to show him how to access the branchs Wi-Fi so he could get his mobile  banking  
information. 
Where theres a disagreement about  events that took place or the information available is 
incomplete, Ill base  my decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most  
likely to have happened based on all the available information and evidence. In this case, 
Mr D says the member of staff tried to grab his phone. But both the statements Ive seen 
from Barclays staff say the member of staff was trying to provide help in accessing  the 
branchs Wi-Fi.  
Ref: DRN18141272From what  Ive seen, I think theres been a genuine misunderstanding.  I dont doubt  Mr D 
believes that the staff member tried to grab his phone. But hes told us about an argument  
with the person serving him and I think its reasonable  to say the situation was heated.  Im 
satisfied that the member  of staff in question  was trying to help Mr D access  his mobile  
banking information  when he reached  out. I dont think  there was any intention to alarm Mr D 
or grab his phone, but I can understand why he may have thought that was the case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D but, having  considered the balance of probability, Im not 
upholding this complaint or telling Barclays to pay compensation. As Ive said,  I think  there 
was most likely a genuine  misunderstanding between  the parties involved after the situation  
in branch became heated.  Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly so Im 
not telling  it to do anything else. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1814127