K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Qmetric Group  Limited  failed to pay him a £100 cashback incentive  
when he purchased his home insurance  policy. 
background
Mr R purchased a Qmetric home  insurance  policy in July 2017. The policy  included  free 
home emergency and legal  assistance cover. Mr R said he purchased his policy through  a 
particular website (Q) because it offered a £100 cashback incentive.  When he didnt 
receive the money he complained to Qmetric. It said it hadnt paid the money because he 
hadnt actually  bought  the policy through the website offering the cashback. It said its 
records showed hed bought the policy through a price comparison website which  was 
offering free home emergency and legal assistance  cover. 
Mr R disagreed with Qmetric. He said he only bought the policy  from it, through  Q, to get the 
cashback. He said if it hadnt been  for the cashback offered he wouldnt have chosen  that 
policy. Mr R said he hadnt bought it through a price  comparison site. 
Unhappy with Qmetrics response, Mr R complained to this service.  Our investigator looked 
into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She said the evidence  she had 
seen showed  hed accepted the quote  from the price comparison site that offered the free 
home emergency and legal  assistance cover but not any cashback.  
Mr R disagreed with our investigators findings.  He said he disputed the information Qmetric 
had provided because it was untrue. He said he hadnt accepted  the quote through the price  
comparison site. Mr R asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate the strength of 
feeling Mr R has about not receiving the cashback  I dont think  his complaint should be 
upheld. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him so Ill explain why. 
This is an impartial service and I can only reach a fair and reasonable decision on a 
complaint by considering the evidence  available to me. To do otherwise wouldnt be fair. 
Unfortunately for Mr R, Ive not seen any documentary evidence  that he purchased the 
policy thorough  the correct channel to qualify for the £100 cashback. 
I can see from the evidence provided  by Qmetric that Mr R obtained numerous quotes when 
he was searching  for a policy. The evidence Ive seen shows that he purchased the policy  
through the price comparison site and that it included free home  emergency  and legal 
assistance cover (which I understand was an offer that wasnt  combinable  with the cashback  
offer). Both Mr R and Qmetric say that to be eligible for the cashback  he had to click a link 
on the cashback website (Q) and then purchase the insurance. Qmetric has provided  
evidence that this isnt what happened. Mr R says it is what he did. 
I have to weigh up what Mr R says against  the documentary  evidence Ive seen. On balance, 
Im persuaded its  likely that Mr R purchased his policy through  the price comparison site 
and the offers he successfully obtained  were  for free home emergency and legal assistance 
cover. Ive also seen  the terms and conditions applicable to qualify  for the cashback.  There 
Ref: DRN15574092is a list of circumstances for when  cashback wont be available and one of them  relates to 
the type of policy  Mr R ended up purchasing. This means that even if Mr R had purchased  
his policy  via Q he wouldnt have  met its criteria to qualify for cashback  because hed 
purchased a policy excluded from qualifying. 
Having taken everything into account Im unable to agree  with Mr R that Qmetric has treated 
him unfairly  by not paying him £100  cashback. Im unable to reasonably  uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1557409