K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Payzone UK Limited did not notify them  of an increase in its 
card processing charges  resulting  in a financial loss.
background 
Payzone arranged  for Mr and Mrs F to enter into a merchant services agreement  with a third 
party acquirer. Payzone had the responsibility for setting the charges. Following industry  
wide changes a charge for processing business debit card payments was altered from 1 
March 2018. Mr and Mrs F say that they were  not notified about this.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-She had been  in contact with both Payzone and the acquirer and was satisfied  that 
Payzone took responsibility for notifying Mr and Mrs F of a change in rates.
-Although Payzone could provide a template of its letter  about  this, it was not able to 
demonstrate that it had been  sent.
-This was the only letter that Mr and Mrs F said that they had not received.
-The new charge was based on 1.8 per cent of the transaction  value plus £0.01 per 
payment. When Payzone reviewed this in April 2018 it had offered a different 
package with a rate of 0.3 per cent of transaction value  plus £0.01 per payment.
-She said that Payzone should  pay Mr and Mrs F the difference between  these rates.
Payzone did not agree. It said it would  provide  any further evidence it had. It had instructed 
an external marketing company to send the notification. That company had to comply with 
data protection  regulations and could  not retain copies of the letter for more than three 
months. It had notes for its staff to use which showed that the rates for Mr and Mrs F had 
been increased if they queried this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payzone has not provided any further evidence to this service.  Ive seen a copy of the 
template letter about  the change in charges. There was a cover letter from Payzone  dated 
11 January 2018  enclosing  a letter from the acquirer. I havent seen anything that relates 
specifically to Mr and Mrs F having  received this letter  or which  set out the new charges for 
them. 
I agree  with the investigator that Payzone had taken the responsibility for notifying Mr and 
Mrs F of the charges. And I also agree with Payzone that the acquirer was entitled  to 
increase the charges to Mr and Mrs F in line with its terms  and conditions.  
The new charging  arrangement started  from 1 March 2018.  The next statement showing that 
the new charges  was dated 31 March 2018. And Payzone  says in its final response that     
Mr F contacted it on 10 April 2018  to discuss the change. It offered them  the lower rate on 
12 April 2018. But Mr and Mrs F switched to a different acquirer - they say after giving what 
they understood to be the required  notice period  of two months. And they did not take any 
more of the relevant type of business debit card payments after April 2018.
Ref: DRN10160202Im satisfied based on the actions Ive described  Mr and Mrs F taking that they did not 
receive the letter. The dispute is over whether it was sent.  I need  to make a finding based on 
what is most likely.  This is the only letter that they say they didnt receive from Payzone. And 
it has not been able to show  that it was sent. It does not have positive  evidence  from the 
third party it relied on. And it had not asked that third party  at the time for any copies of 
letters sent or systems  records. I dont doubt  that Payzones intention  was to send a 
notification. But on balance in this case I dont  think  that this is most likely what happened.
I next need to consider whether Mr and Mrs F could reasonably have avoided paying  the full 
amount of this charge. I think  that they could.  As soon as they became aware of it they 
asked for a rate review.  They were  offered  a lower charging plan. They stopped  taking any 
further such payments  at the higher rate and they switched  to a different acquirer. So I 
consider that Payzone should compensate them for the impact of the difference  in the rate 
they were charged  for these payments in March  and April 2018 at 1.8 per cent of value and 
the lower rate I think  would have been made  available  to them  of 0.3 per cent of value. That 
difference of 1.5 per cent applied to the total relevant transaction values in April and May 
2018 of £17,254 means  a payment to them of £258.81. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Payzone  UK Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs F £258.81.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1016020