K820x#14complaint
Miss B and Mr B complain about issues theyve  experienced with a car purchased with 
finance from Close Motor  Finance  Limited.
background
In March 2018 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with CMFL.
In April 2018 Miss B experienced issues with the car. The car was returned to the supplying 
dealer a few times and in June 2018  the gearbox  was repaired.
Miss B experienced issues again approximately  7 months later which  she believes were 
related to the original fault. She says she had lost faith in the garage  that carried  out the first 
repair and wanted  to have the car repaired at a garage of her choice  but the supplying 
dealer refused.
Miss B obtained a diagnostic from a garage of her choice. This showed fault codes. Miss B 
complained to CMFL and asked  it to meet the costs of repair.
CMFL refused. It said the fault codes in the diagnostic didnt amount to a professional 
opinion about  whether  the faults were related to the previous repair.
Miss B got the car repaired  and complained to this service.  She wants CMFL to refund the 
costs of repairs.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the diagnostic  report wasnt enough  to 
identify that the issue  was related  to the previous repair or that it was present at the point of 
supply.
Miss B didnt agree. She said shed been  advised  by CMFL that if she obtained an 
independent report  this would be sufficient evidence that that issue was as a result  of the 
failed repair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because CMFL has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. I would  expect a second  hand car, such as that supplied to Miss B, to have a 
degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied 
that there  was a fault with the car at the point  of supply which wasnt successfully repaired.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first six months, its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair a fault.  If the repair isnt successful the consumer can reject  the car. After six months, 
its up to the consumer to show  that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Ref: DRN10712302In this case, Miss Bs car developed a fault in the first six months. The gearbox was repaired 
but approximately seven months later Miss B experienced issues  which  she said were 
related to the original fault. Miss B says the first repair wasnt successful.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not theres  a fault.  In this case, 
Miss B obtained a diagnostic report which showed fault codes.  Whilst I agree  that the 
diagnostic shows that there are some issues with the car, it doesnt say whether  these  
issues are related to the previous repair and/or whether the issues  would have been present 
at the point of supply.  So Im unable to safely conclude that the issues were  related to the 
previous repair  or that the previous repair was unsuccessful.
I can see that CMFL offered to arrange  an independent inspection of the car to confirm 
whether the previous repairs had failed.  But Miss B has said she needed the car so she went  
ahead and had it repaired by a third party garage.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for CMFL to suggest an independent  inspection.  I agree 
with CMFL that the diagnostic  report obtained  by Miss B wasnt  sufficient to show  whether 
the issues were related  to the previous repair.
Based on what Ive seen  Im not persuaded that the issues are related to the previous repair 
or that there  was a fault present at the point  of supply. Under the relevant legislation, its up 
to Miss B to  show that the issues with the car were related to the previous repair. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that this was the case. Im therefore unable to say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and I wont be asking CMFL to refund the repair costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1071230