K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Assetz SME Capital Limited  didnt  carry out sufficient checks on the 
security he was told was available for a peer to peer (p2p)  loan he invested in. When  the 
company was unable to pay back  this loan, he was told there was insufficient security  
available to compensate him. 
background
In January 2016 Mr E invested £5,000 in a p2p loan that was offered on Assetzs  platform. 
The loan was to fund the expansion of a trade finance company which Ill refer to as 
Company A. 
Before investing,  Mr E had sight of a number of documents which  gave him detail around  
Company As financials, its purpose for the loan and any other risks.  The documents 
available also outlined what security  Assetz  had over any assets owned by Company A, and 
their valuation at the time. Assetz was not required to advise Mr E. 
Unfortunately for Mr E, Company A ran into difficulties  before the loan was paid back.  And 
when Assetz  tried to enforce  the security it had over Company As assets,  it was insufficient 
to pay back investors. 
Mr E complained. One of our investigators looked  into Mr Es complaint but didnt think it 
should be upheld.  In summary:
She was persuaded Company As pitch was fair, clear  and not misleading  and 
considered that Assetz had done what was required to verify  the claims made in the 
pitch. 
The debenture of a third partys asset  (a mine  abroad) was in place at the time of 
Company As pitch, but it wouldnt have  been possible for Assetz to have verified the 
value of the mine. Ultimately this was an asset  owned by one of Company As 
debtors, and she considered had Assetz correctly verified that Company A had 
protected itself by having a charge over it. 
She thought  Assetz had appropriately  warned Mr E of the risks of investing in this 
type of loan. 
She concluded that the credit report had clearly highlighted the many risks 
associated with Company A, including the fact that it had no fixed  assets of its own.  
She thought it was clear from the credit  report that Company As ability  to remain 
solvent was dependent on its invoices  being  paid, and this was a significant  risk of 
lending to Company A. It was for Mr E to satisfy himself that he was happy to take on 
that risk in light of this information. 
She thought  the financial information  available to Mr E ought to have  alerted  him 
more generally to the risks associated with lending to Company A  and she 
considered this information  was fair, clear  and not misleading. 
Mr E didnt agree. In summary, he said that he was misled into investing into a high risk loan, 
and was misled as to the value and nature of the security that was advertised.  He said the 
loan was promoted to him on the basis of it being  secured, but it wasnt.  He said the loan to 
value ratio was misleading. And he said that in his view, the word  security  meant a thing 
deposited or pledged as a guarantee of the fulfilment of an undertaking or the repayment of 
a loan, to be forfeited in case of default.  He said that this loan didnt  have any security in 
place, despite  Assetz saying it did. 
Ref: DRN19077212Mr E also said that after this loan defaulted, he was told by Assetz that it no longer promoted 
non-property secured  loans anymore due to the risk involved. He thought this demonstrated 
that he had been misled  into investing  in this loan and had been treated unfairly. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I think its important that I emphasise  to Mr E that I fully understand why he believes his 
complaint should  be upheld,  and I do sympathise  with the size of the financial loss he has 
experienced as a result of lending to Company  A. But my role is to decide  matters 
impartially, and on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  and this includes what information  was readily available to him at the time of the 
investment. 
Whilst I appreciate he may have  chosen  to give more weight to some aspects of what he 
was being told than others,  I need to decide  whether it was fair and reasonable, in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  for Assetz to have approved this particular promotion  
including taking into account to what extent overall,  the promotional  material was fair, clear 
and not misleading.  And, in particular, where  that information was clear about  Company As 
prospects of repaying  the loan. This is what the regulator required Assetz  to satisfy itself of 
before approving the promotion.  It wasnt for Assetz to make  a decision on Mr Es behalf,  or 
give him advice about whether lending to Company  A was the right thing to do. Assetz 
needed to ensure, among  other things, that whatever information Mr E was being given, it 
wasnt misleading him into thinking the loan was safer  than it really  was. And so this is the 
first thing Ive needed to address. 
The second  issue  to consider depends  on my conclusions above.  If I consider that Mr E was 
in fact misled because Assetz didnt carry out sufficient  due diligence  on the information 
available, then I need to consider what Mr E wouldve  done  had he been given the right 
information. 
Much like the investigator has done, in addressing the first of these questions above  Ive 
paid particular attention to the credit report that was available to Mr E at the time. I think  this 
document is key and Id expect an investor to have paid close and very careful attention  to it. 
That isnt to say that the other  documents werent equally important  I can see a long list of 
other documents such as balance sheets and profit  and loss data for various years.  
And Ive seen that the investigator  has referred to this information in explaining to Mr E other 
reasons why he ought to have been  aware  of the risk of lending to Company A. But Ive 
focused on the credit report  because it encapsulates and distils key information,  including 
the purpose of the loan, Company As business  model and key risks to its ability  to repay  
what it owes. 
Company As model essentially involved purchasing goods on behalf  of its clients  against 
confirmed orders. It had processes in place to mitigate the risk of default by its clients,  and 
these included relevant insurance  coverage as well as a limit on its overall financial outlay in 
the purchase of goods. 
Ref: DRN19077213The report  explained  that the loan of £1 million was sought with a bullet repayment after two 
years  or roll over subject to its expected growth and demand. Indeed I can see the report 
makes the possibility of Company A seeking further  loans  in the future  very clear.  
In the section called security,  which  I understand was Mr Es key concern, I find the 
information about what security was available to be clear. I appreciate Mr Es complaint that 
the advertised loan to value (LTV) suggested a level of security he says later transpired to 
be inaccurate. But Im satisfied the report explains clearly what  security  was in place. 
Assetz had a first debenture over Company As assets  and these included stock,  cash  and 
debtors. And I think it was clear that it was the combined value of these assets at the time 
which suggested a particular LTV. At the time, there was no suggestion  that the security 
included fixed assets that might  hold a particular or intrinsic value. For example the credit 
report makes  it clear  that Company A didnt in fact have any fixed assets.  So I dont 
consider this information was misleading  Mr E into thinking there was security when there 
wasnt. I think this information  clearly outlined that Assetz  did have security in place, what  it 
was and what it was worth.  It was for Mr E to decide  whether that was sufficient for him to 
still proceed with the loan.
And its on this issue that Im not persuaded by Mr Es submissions. His definition of security  
is precisely what was in place for this loan. A security doesnt have to be, for example, 
property  and property itself can have fluctuating values and depends on the property being 
sold at a particular  price in order for it to properly compensate  consumers for a defaulted 
loan. The point  is that Mr E shouldnt have  relied on the security being  in place to essentially 
conclude that this was an investment that carried no risk to his capital  that it was 
guaranteed. I dont  think it was reasonable, in light of all the information available,  for him to 
think this was the case. And Im not satisfied that Assetz misled him into thinking this. 
Instead, in reading  the information that was available to Mr E at the time, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable  for him to have understood that the value of the debenture which Assetz 
had secure against  Company As assets was likely  to fluctuate  and that it would depend on 
precisely when that security would be called on. And whilst  I can see a covenant was in 
place to ensure  the value of that security remained at a certain level,  its clear  to me that 
Company As business model  would  be heavily reliant on its month  to month debtors 
continuing to pay it on time. I think this aspect of lending to Company A was clear and ought 
to have been taken into account by Mr E when  he was assessing, for himself, the risk of 
investing in this loan. 
Im not persuaded theres anything in this report that was misleading. I dont think  it was 
misleading for an LTV to be advertised, because after all Company A did have  assets in 
place  and Assetz  did have security over them. 
But crucially,  it was for Mr E to decide whether or not the nature of that security was such 
that he was satisfied investing in the loan was a risk worth taking  bearing in mind the 
overall nature of this type of investment meant  that it carried  a degree of risk that the loan 
would not be paid back. Im not persuaded any of the information provided to Mr E misled 
him into thinking this loan was guaranteed, or that he ran no risk of losing his money.  
In my view, it was for Mr E to decide  whether he wanted to lend to a company that had no 
fixed assets and which had a number of large debtors on whom  its business model 
essentially relied. I think all this information was clear and available  to Mr E, and 
appropriately highlighted. In my view, if having property backed security was something that 
Ref: DRN19077214was key for him at the time, he ought to have concluded that this investment was not 
appropriate for him. 
I acknowledge that it later transpired  that one of Company As largest debtors was unable to 
pay back its debt to it. And, worse, the security which Company A had over the fixed assets  
of this debtor (a mine  located abroad) couldnt be realised  in order  to pay the debt back. To 
be clear,  this wasnt Company As asset  at the time this loan was being promoted. This was 
an asset owned by a third party, over which Company A had a charge. The value of this 
asset wasnt something which Assetz couldve done any due diligence  over  and it wasnt  
used to calculate the LTV of this loan,  only the debt owed to Company A by the company 
that owned the mine was. 
The point here is that it was apparent  from the promotion and the information  available, that 
this was a key risk of Company As business model  and something that Mr E ought to have  
taken into account  when deciding whether the interest  rate he was receiving on the loan was 
worth the risk he was taking. 
When this debtor was unable  to pay back Company A, it transpired  that value of the mine  
was worth significantly less than anticipated. This meant that the debt owed to Company A 
couldnt be paid back, and was one of the reasons  that caused  Company A to go into 
administration and ultimately default  on the loan. 
Whilst I have huge  sympathy for the fact that Mr E lost his investment as a result, I consider 
Assetz fairly and reasonably ensured  Mr E had all the information he needed in order to 
make his decision to invest. I consider that from the documents available, it was clear that 
unpaid debts was the single most significant risk facing Company  As financial stability  and 
its ability to repay the loan. For all these  reasons,  Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable to require  Assetz ought to pay any compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1907721