K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  loans granted  to him by Loans 2 Go Limited  (L2G). He says 
that the loans  were  unaffordable for him and should  not have been agreed.
background 
L2G agreed three loans for Mr L: a loan of £300  in January 2018; a second of £250  a few 
months later in April,  and a third of £500 that June. Some of the information L2G provided is 
shown in the table below  (all figures  rounded to the nearest pound). 
Loan Start date End date Principal Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repaid
1 24/01/2018 20/02/2018 £300 £68 18 £403
2 21/04/2018 30/05/2018 £250 £57 18 £370
3 18/06/2018 outstanding £500 £113 18 £0
Mr L says that he was in financial  difficulty when he took out his loans, and he informed L2G 
of this when he had problems repaying his second loan. He explained that he told the lender 
then that he was suffering with mental  health and addiction issues.  Mr L also says that after 
that, L2G continued to send him marketing material and agreed a third loan for him.
L2G offered  to waive the interest and charges on Mr Ls third loan and accept a repayment 
of the principal borrowed (£500) as a full and final settlement of his complaint. It also offered 
to discuss a repayment plan with him. Mr L didnt accept the offer and brought  his complaint 
to this Service.
Our adjudicator looked into what happened  when each of Mr Ls loans  were  agreed.  She 
found that L2G should have gone further in its affordability checks  and, had it done so, would 
have seen that Mr L wasnt likely to be able to repay his third loan sustainably. She thought  
L2G shouldnt  have approved Mr Ls third loan as it was aware  of Mr Ls financial difficulties 
by that point. However, she thought  L2Gs offer to resolve the matter was fair, as it was in 
line with this Services usual redress where weve found that a loan was irresponsibly given.
Mr L didnt agree with the recommendation. He said that he doesnt want  to pay L2G any 
interest and feels that this loan should  be cancelled due to the circumstances. And so the 
complaint came to me, as an ombudsman,  to review and resolve. 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 October  2020 explaining why I was thinking  of 
upholding Mr Ls complaint regarding his third loan and provisionally concluded that he 
should not have to pay anything back to L2G, including  the principal amount hed borrowed. 
Ive attached an extract from my provisional decision to the end of this document, and it 
forms part of my final decision. 
I gave both parties a month to respond to my provisional findings and both parties  have done 
so. Mr L agrees with my provisional decision and L2G said that it had nothing further to add. 
Ref: DRN15385312my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive found no reason  to 
depart from my provisional findings  and neither party has provided  further  information  or 
comment for my consideration. Therefore I am upholding Mr Ls complaint about his third 
loan and require  L2G to put things right for him as set out below.
what L2G should do to put things  right
Taking everything into account,  in the context  of this case, Ive concluded  that the fairest  
thing to do to put Mr L back  into the position he would have been in had he not been granted 
a third loan by L2G is for the lender to write-off the full balance of the outstanding debt.
In summary,  L2G should:
a)write-off  the outstanding balance, including the capital, on Mr Ls third loan agreed in 
June 2018; and
b)remove any adverse  information from his credit file in relation to this loan. 
If L2G has sold this debt to a third-party  and if it cant or doesnt wish to buy it back, then it 
needs to work with the third-party  to bring  about the above steps.
my final decision
As Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about 
Loans 2 Go Limited and require it to put things right for him as Ive set out. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15385313EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mr Ls complaint  about his third loan. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for L2G and I hope my explanation  below makes it clear why I have come to this 
conclusion.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when L2G lent to Mr L. Its rules and 
guidance obliged  L2G to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC),  
L2G needed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly and it would not 
be doing so if it targeted customers with regulated  credit agreements which  are unsuitable for them,  
by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability  or any other reason. (CONC  
2.2.2G).
When agreeing credit, L2G needed to take reasonable  and proportionate steps to assess  whether or 
not a borrower could  afford to meet  its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of 
the agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1G stated  that
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm should take 
into account more  than assessing  the customer's  ability to repay  the credit.
2.The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should  include the firm 
taking reasonable  steps to assess  the customer's ability to meet repayments under a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant being able to meet  repayments out of normal income 
while meeting other reasonable  commitments;   without having to borrow further to meet  these 
repayments; without having to realise security  or assets (CONC  5.3.1G - 6) or in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness  (ILG 4.31).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such  an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level 
of detail  would depend  on the type of product,  the amount  of credit being considered,  the associated 
cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation,  amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the borrower.  In other words  the assessment  needs to be borrower-focussed. It is 
not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, but of the risk to the borrower of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences as a result of the 
decision to lend. 
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information  to use needed  to 
be enough to be able to reasonably  assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the borrower.  
CONC 5.2.3G(9)  stated  that one consideration   might include the vulnerability of the customer, in 
particular where the firm understands the customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or 
1 ILG refers to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance produced by the previous regulator - the Office of 
Fair Trading - which this part of CONC  specifically  references.
Ref: DRN15385314reasonably suspects this to be so because the customer  displays  indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation  (see CONC 2.10).
CONC 2.10.3G defines  mental  capacity as the ability  of a person to make  a decision and references 
the Office of Fair Tradings (the previous regulator)  Mental Capacity Guidance  (MCG) paragraph 2.1. 
This states that mental capacity is  always  defined in relation  to a specific decision at a specific time. 
Consequently, when considering an application for (more)  credit by a borrower, or a request from a 
borrower for an increase  in his credit  limit, the creditor should  take account of the borrower's  
circumstances at the time at which  the application/request is made.
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the borrower  
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example, Id expect  a lender to seek 
more assurance,  potentially by carrying  out more  detailed  checks
-the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
-the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
-the greater the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a person has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming,  unsustainable).
-where it knows, or reasonably suspects, that a customer has one of the conditions  set out 
in CONC  2.10.6G2 (reflecting  the risk that the credit the customer is seeking might be 
clearly unsuitable  given the customers  individual circumstances and, to the extent that 
the lender  is aware,  the customers  intended  use of the credit  CONC  2.10.15G).  
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mr Ls case, I have considered the following  
questions:
-did L2G complete reasonable  and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable way? 
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?  
-did L2G make  fair lending decisions?
-did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
L2G says it gathered information from Mr L about his income, rent and other expenses each time he 
applied for a loan L2G says that its assessment showed that for all loans the monthly repayments 
would be affordable for Mr L, leaving him with several  hundred pounds  a month to spare. The 
customer notes show L2G verified some of this information, for example it verified  Mr Ls income via a 
payslip.
L2G also gathered some information from Mr Ls credit file each time he applied for a loan.  The 
information L2G saw from around  the time of Mr Ls first loan in early 2018 shows that he had some 
debt that was several years  old including  a defaulted current account debt of over £1,800.  It also 
showed that Mr L had spent over his limit of £200 on a current credit card. A second credit check for 
his second loan some months later in April showed that, in addition to the above, Mr L had one or two 
outstanding short term loans. The third credit  file check in June for Mr Ls last loan shows several 
repaid and (at least three) outstanding short term loans. 
2 CONC 2.10.6G states Amongst  the most common potential causes of mental capacity limitations  are 
the following examples, a mental health condition, dementia,  a learning disability, a developmental 
disorder, a neurological disability or brain injury  and alcohol or drug (including prescribed  drugs) 
induced intoxication.
Ref: DRN15385315Having thought about it carefully, I think L2Gs checks  were  proportionate for Mr Ls first loan. Mr L 
would need to potentially  meet his repayments for 18 months,  but the monthly  repayments were  low 
relative what hed said about his income  and expenditure. The credit check  showed  that he had 
defaults and late payments  on some  earlier  debt but I dont think  anything  recent would have  given 
L2G concern and in this case I dont think Mr Ls historic debt alone meant that L2G ought  to have 
declined to lend to him.
Mr L repaid his first loan the following month and didnt apply for credit again  for another two months.  I 
think L2G could see from his credit check that Mr Ls financial situation wasnt  improving. Hed repaid 
a short  term loan and had two outstanding. He had repaid his first loan quickly and hadnt immediately 
taken out a second, and the second loan was for a slightly lower amount with correspondingly lower 
monthly repayments. It is debateable for me whether L2G ought to have looked into Mr Ls existing 
debts in more detail at this point and verified  some  of his outgoings,  given the length of time over 
which hed need to meet his loan repayments. However, on balance,  I think  it wasnt unreasonable of 
L2G to lend on this occasion on the basis of the information it had gathered.
Mr L contacted L2G to explain he was in financial difficulty within  a week taking out his second loan. A 
webchat record  from late April 2018 shows that Mr L said:
I am in financial difficulty due to job lay-offs and have a loan.  I need to freeze the loan and set up 
payment plan. I have thousands in debt from pay day loans,  addiction problems and [am] getting help. 
I can pay 20 pounds per month  standing order that is all. My bank card is cancelled as part of my 
rehab for addiction, standing order is my only payment method.
So I am contacting loans to go to ask to set up a payment schedule for me and I will pay them  20 a 
month on the 20th of each month.
About a week later on the 5 May, a webchat record show  that Mr L said:
I am in financial difficulty. I can pay half off on the 18th May and half on the 20th of June if you can 
give me two amounts to pay I will do them  by standing order, so need a sort code account  number 
and reference number.
Its clear from this communication  that not only was Mr L in financial difficulty and was in a vulnerable 
position3 regarding his employment  but also regarding his mental health.  His  support for this included 
limitations on how he managed his finances, which suggests to me that Mr Ls ability to make a 
decision regarding his finances was in doubt and there was a risk that the loan would be unsuitable 
for him. Furthermore,  Mr Ls third loan was for double  the amount of his second and was to be repaid  
over 18 months. The credit  information L2G had gathered  showed  that Mr L was relying on short term 
lending each  month and had at least three outstanding loans at the time. 
Altogether, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for L2G to have looked into Mr Ls 
spending in more detail  when  he asked  for a third loan and verified his outgoings. Mr L has provided 
his bank statements and its clear from these that he was reliant on short term lending throughout  this 
period and was spending  large amounts on gambling. (Im not suggesting  L2G ought to have looked 
at Mr Ls bank  statements but as I have  this information I think its a reasonable proxy for the 
information L2G should  have  sought). I think its likely that further checks on his spending would have 
revealed the extent of his reliance on short term loans and also, potentially,  the extent of his spend on 
gambling. And so I think L2G was irresponsible to agree  a third loan for Mr L. 
L2G said that it showed considerable  understanding  into Mr Ls financial position when it offered to 
remove all interest and charges from his account and work with him to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for the principal amount. I think this is a fair offer as it acknowledges that Mr L wasnt in a 
position to be able to sustainably  repay  this loan when it was agreed. However,  I dont think this offer 
3 CONC 7.2.2G: Customers who have mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations
may fall into the category  of particularly vulnerable customers.
Ref: DRN15385316reflects the fact that Mr L applied for his third loan from a position of vulnerability and that L2G was 
aware of this. 
Mr L has also complained that L2G sent him marketing material after he told it not to communicate  
with him. I can see from the customer notes that he complained to L2G on the 28 June 2018  and 
asked it not to continue to send him marketing  material. It seems he received marketing  material via 
text the following day. 
Mr L said in his communication to L2G in June 2018: You have continued  to push loans on me even 
though I have  evidence I contacted you on two occasions telling you I have these issues and even 
gave me another 500 pounds loan. I am struggling  with addiction problems and told you that I am 
having serious  financial  difficulties and told you that. I have mental  health problems  and told you that.
Your irresponsible lending has resulted in me getting into further financial  difficulties and has caused 
me serious anxiety  and depression. You have caused me distress and made me feel suicidal by not 
being a responsible  lender  and have continued to push loans on me even though I clearly stated I am 
no in the right frame  of mind  to be borrowing money.
L2G said the following in its final response to Mr L:I can confirm also that upon receipt of your 
complaint on 28 June  2018  we opted you out from receiving any future  marketing. You have provided  
a screenshot of a text you received the day after. I apologise sincerely  for that; it is not unreasonable 
for it to take around  24 hours  to reflect  the changes made. In respect of the inconvenience however,  
as a gesture of goodwill, I have enclosed  a £20 Amazon voucher for you.
I think  it is a fair response from L2G to apologise and offer a goodwill gesture to reflect  the delay  
between Mr L asking directly not to be sent any marketing material  and his request being  actioned. 
However, bearing in mind CONC 3.8.2R4, I do not think it reflects the fact that L2G knew from late 
April that Mr L was likely  in a vulnerable position, yet it continued to send him communications about  
loans and approved further borrowing. 
what L2G should do to put things right
Ive concluded that L2G was irresponsible to have  agreed to lend to Mr L a third time. Where we find 
a loan to have  been  agreed irresponsibly, this Services  approach to putting things right is to direct  the 
lender to refund  any interest and charges paid by the borrower. In addition, we usually  direct the 
lender to pay a refund of 8% per annum simple interest on these  payments where  the borrower  was 
unfairly deprived of their money.  Wed  generally expect the borrower to repay  the capital borrowed as 
they have had the use of these funds. 
As mentioned,  L2G has offered to waive the interest and charges on the loan, and it offered Mr L a 
voucher for the delay in responding to his direct  request  to opt out of marketing communications.  
However as Ive explained, in the circumstances of this case I dont think this resolution  fully reflects  
the impact that the communications and lending  decision  had on Mr L.  
CONC 7.10.1R  states that a lender  must suspend the pursuit of recovery of a debt from a customer 
when: 
1.the firm has been notified that the customer might not have the mental  capacity to make 
relevant financial decisions  about the management of the customer's  debt and/or to engage in 
the debt recovery process at the time; or
2.the firm understands  or ought  reasonably  to be aware  that the customer lacks  mental capacity 
to make relevant financial decisions about the management of the customer's  debt and/or to 
engage in the debt recovery process at the time.
4 CONC 3.8.2R states that lender must not promote  credit  in a communication with a customer  where  
it knows, or has reason  to believe, that the agreement would be unsuitable for that customer in the 
light of the customer's  financial circumstances or, if known, intended use of the credit.  
Ref: DRN15385317[Note: paragraphs  3.7r of DCG and 7.13 of ILG]
The DCG refers to the OFTs Debt Collection  Guidance and both the DCG and ILG paragraphs  
reiterate the above extracts  from CONC. They also go on to explain that:
 creditors  should consider  writing  off debts where a borrower lacked  the mental  capacity  to make 
the relevant financial decision at the time that he entered the credit agreement  with the creditor. The 
legal position in England and Wales is that a contract is voidable where the creditor knew of the 
incapacity or must be taken to have  known  of it.
Bearing the above in mind and taking everything  into account, in the context of this case, I currently 
think the fairest  thing  to do to put Mr L back into the position he would  have been in had he not been 
granted a third loan by L2G is for the lender to write-off the full balance  of the outstanding debt.
In summary, L2G should:
a)write-off the outstanding balance, including the capital, on Mr Ls third loan agreed in June 
2018; and
b)remove any adverse  information from his credit file in relation  to this loan. 
If L2G has sold this debt to a third-party and if it cant  or doesnt wish to buy it back, then it needs to 
work with the third-party  to bring about the above steps.
-END-
Ref: DRN1538531