K820x#14complaint
Miss E makes  a number of complaints about  Lloyds  Bank Plc and how it dealt with her debt.
background
Miss E complains  that Lloyds passed her debt to a third party company which  in turn took 
her to court. She says she tried to cancel her direct debits but Lloyds failed  to follow  her 
instructions. And that Lloyds has failed to take into her account her health  problems  and has 
made unfair charges.
Lloyds says the account was passed to its collection  department in 2008  and it sold the debt 
in 2009. It says its not responsible for what took place after that. It also says it doesnt have 
any evidence that Miss E told it about  her health problems or that it made a mistake about 
the direct  debits or charges.
Miss E brought her complaint to us and initially our investigator thought  she had brought the 
complaint too late for us to consider.  But the investigator then found a note on Lloyds 
systems in which Miss E had raised  the issue about the charges and direct debit in 2009.  So 
the investigator thought we could look at part of the complaint  but could not consider the 
actions of the third party company Lloyds sold the debt to.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint  and thought the account had an overdraft 
added and that the last charges  were applied in September 2008. The investigator didnt 
think there was evidence on Lloyds records that Miss E had told it about her health 
difficulties. The investigator  thought  that some direct  debits were cancelled in 2007 but that 
three new direct debits were opened  in 2008. And Miss E stopped making  regular payments 
into the account in the middle  of 2008.
The investigator thought Lloyds had tried to contact Miss E and could not have done more  in 
the circumstances.
Miss E doesnt accept  that view and says Lloyds  took away her overdraft but also says she 
disputes having the overdraft. She maintains all of the direct  debits  should  have been 
cancelled and accepts  she would have received account statements in the post that she 
wouldnt have been opened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss E will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I make  it clear  to Miss E that I can only look at her complaint about Lloyds and not the 
actions of the company Lloyds sold the debt to. I also cant  consider  the issue  of the amount 
of debt that was sold as that has been  decided by a court.
I have looked  at Lloyds records and I think on balance it likely that Lloyds would only have 
added the overdraft to Miss Es account  with her permission. I also think it likely Miss E 
would have benefited from that as I can see that her account was previously overdrawn and 
that she was paying  charges for the account being  overdrawn. I appreciate  that Lloyds did 
apply charges but I think they were applied  due to either the account  being overdrawn or 
Ref: DRN15145492exceeding the overdraft limit. So I dont  think Lloyds has made  a mistake or acted unfairly by 
adding the charges.
I appreciate that Miss E says she cancelled all of the direct debits and so the account 
shouldnt have been as overdrawn. But I can see that new direct debits were  set up in 2008 
and I dont think they would have been set up without Miss Es approval or knowledge. So 
again Ive not seen  any evidence that Lloyds made a mistake by not cancelling the direct  
debits and I think Miss E ought to have checked the position herself and monitored her 
account.
I accept that Miss E had health  difficulties but Ive not seen any evidence on Lloyds records 
that it had been told about those difficulties. So I dont think Lloyds could have taken any 
steps to help Miss E or provide her with support if it was unaware  of those health difficulties. 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds tried to contact Miss E on a number of occasions but without  
any response.
Overall Im satisfied that due to the passage of time since the account was closed  there is 
limited information available from both sides about  what took place. But for the reasons Ive 
explained Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt acted unfairly or made  a mistake. I accept that the 
main part of Miss Es complaint is about  the actions  of the company Lloyds sold her debt to 
and I have explained those are not matters I can fairly comment  on.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1514549