K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that he was advised  by Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Ltd 
(WCFM), at the time an appointed representative (AR) of ValidPath Limited (ValidPath), to 
invest £50,000 in the Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund  PCC Limited-Majestic Village 
No 3 Fund (Stirling  Mortimer). Mr H says that the risks involved with the investment were not 
made clear to him.
background
In 2005 WCFM recommended  that Mr H go into income drawdown via a Self-Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and invest in a defensive  collection of funds. It appears  that WCFM  
held ongoing  reviews of Mr Hs investments.
In April 2007, Mr H met with WCFM and it subsequently wrote  to him confirming:
You wish to take a more adventurous approach with regards to risk in order  that 
your fund has the potential to grow sufficiently to cover the income withdrawals.  
You were considering  raising some  capital against the value  of your house by way of 
re-mortgage and have considered property purchase abroad. You like the idea of the 
Stirling Mortimer Property Fund which invests in overseas  property and wish to invest  
£50,000 of your SIPP monies  into this.
WCFM then initiated the process of investing  £50,000 from Mr Hs SIPP  into Stirling  
Mortimer. Mr H signed  a sophisticated investor certificate  which WCFM forwarded  to the 
administrators of Stirling Mortimer.
As part of the application  process  Mr Hs pension provider required that he sign a disclaimer, 
this said that:
I hereby  confirm my instruction to invest in the Majestic Village No 3 Fund. I fully 
understand that this investment may not be readily  realisable and that this could  
impact on my ability to take pension  benefits from my plan if there  are not sufficient 
other liquid assets  held by my plan.
I also fully understand  that in the event of my death, [name of provider] may need to 
encash the investment to pay death benefits  to my beneficiaries and that the price 
they obtain may not reflect the full value of the plans share of the underlying 
investment. 
I understand that if this fund invests in residential property and the Revenue deems 
this not to be a genuinely  diverse commercial  vehicle, there may be a tax charge and 
that I would be liable  for this.
Furthermore, given the nature of this investment, I understand that it will not be 
valued as regularly as an authorised investment fund would be. Therefore, any value 
provided to me by [name  of provider] may not be up to date or may be a best 
estimate based on the last valuation and subsequent distributions.
The investment in Stirling Mortimer went ahead in June 2007 via Mr Hs then SIPP.
Ref: DRN17931642In November 2009, Mr H set up another SIPP and moved his funds to it. The application was 
submitted by WCFM and it was listed as the adviser  on the application  form. The in-specie 
transfer of the Stirling Mortimer  fund was received on 21 January 2010. The total pension  
was valued at around £132,000.
According to the FCA register WCFM was an AR of ValidPath between July 2005 and
November 2010,  after which  it became  directly  authorised.
Around six years later Mr H was informed that the Stirling Mortimer investment had been 
placed into liquidation.
In 2017 Mr H complained  to ValidPath.  It did not uphold  his complaint. Briefly, it said that it 
could not be held responsible for the sale of the Stirling  Mortimer investment, that WCFM 
ought to have informed him about the problems faced by the Stirling  Mortimer investment at 
an earlier date, and that it ought to have been  having ongoing  reviews  with him. Unhappy  
with its response,  Mr H referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should  be upheld.  In summary 
he concluded that:
Mr H was entitled to bring  a complaint  against ValidPath.
The complaint  arises from a regulated activity.
ValidPath was responsible for the acts complained about   there was no signed  AR 
agreement and the other  evidence  provided  was insufficient to show that WCFM 
acted outside  the authority provided to it; or, that ValidPath  was otherwise not 
responsible for the advice complained about.
The advice provided was unsuitable and ValidPath should compensate Mr H for this 
in full.
The investigator described Mr Hs recollections of events as follows:
Mr H has said that he was introduced to [WCFMs  advisers name] by [name of 
another adviser]He had retired at 50 due to health  reasons, and [details of the 
income he was now reliant on]. [WCFMs advisers  name] had said he would look 
after his pension for him. He didn't really understand what  was happening  when 
[WCFMs advisers name] moved  his pension provision to a different pension plan 
within [providers name].
He recalls that in 2007 [WCFMs  advisers name]  had come to meet him, and they'd 
discussed releasing some capital  from the shop. [WCFMs advisers  name] has [sic] 
presented the idea of investing in overseas  property  as a safe investment that would 
return 6% growth over three years. Hed agreed to this, but the risk involved hadnt 
been explained to him. His main concern was ensuring they had money to provide for 
[details of his dependants] . He also stated that [WCFMs advisers name]  didn't tell 
him until April this year that the Stirling Mortimer fund had gone  into liquidation. 
ValidPath disagreed, in summary,  it said:
WCFM did not report this business  to it or follow proper  procedure.
ValidPath was excluded from the process.
WCFMs actions  in relation to Mr Hs pension after it became directly authorised are 
relevant.
Ref: DRN17931643If WCFM had been  conducting ongoing reviews, as it was required to, it is possible 
that Mr Hs loss could  have been mitigated.
It is not fair that we have only taken the responsibility for the sale into account and 
not what happened afterwards.
WCFM should be responsible for the complaint not ValidPath   and, it is unclear why 
Mr H has chosen  to pursue it.
WCFMs breaches of procedure  and the regulators rules should  negate  ValidPaths  
responsibility for its actions.
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this case was passed to me for review.
As part of our investigation we established  that because  of the nature of the Stirling  Mortimer 
investment there would not have been  an opportunity, after investment and prior to the funds 
becoming illiquid, for Mr H to disinvest.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr H and ValidPath, explaining why I thought the complaint 
was one we could consider and one that should  be upheld. 
Mr H accepted my provisional  findings.
There was some correspondence exchanged between ValidPath  and this service. It 
disagreed with my decision. In summary,  its submissions in respect of the complaint broadly 
covered the following issues:
Non-disclosure  the persistent non-disclosure  from WCFM  meant  that it did not 
accept responsibility  for the business  nor did it have the opportunity  to do so. WCFM 
deliberately hid from it business  that it knew was not compliant with its published 
standards. Whilst it is not able to locate a signed copy  of the agreement,  given that 
we are treating  WCFM as its AR, it should, in turn, be assumed that the agreement 
applies. WCFMs actions were in breach of that agreement. It is wrong to take the 
position that by virtue  of not explicitly ruling out the use of illiquid and speculative 
investments such as Stirling Mortimer that it accepted responsibility for such  
investments. WCFM was not following its published  procedures  nor was it acting in a 
transparent and accountable manner.
Had WCFM followed the published  standards and reported the business then the 
investment would most likely not have been made  and, even it had, ValidPath would 
have known about it and could have  done something to put it right.
Hearsay and reasonableness  the fact that advice was given  is based  largely  on 
Mr Hs testimony.  The approach taken is subjective.  Despite  the gaps in evidence 
and the fact that ValidPath had no knowledge  of this business at all, we have 
unreasonably held it solely responsible for what happened.
Provision within DISP   our rules provide for the apportionment of responsibility,  but 
we have ignored this.
Unacceptable conclusions  the position we have taken is not reasonable, if it were 
not for WCFMs  failures to adhere  to ValidPaths  processes, Mr H would not now be 
in the position that he is. It follows that it is a significant regulatory  breach on 
WCFMs part, which was concealed  from ValidPath  not a matter  between WCFM 
and ValidPath as the provisional  decision suggests.
Ref: DRN17931644After ValidPaths response to my provisional  decision it came  to light that it had not had 
access to the information  provided to us by WCFM. So, we sent that information to ValidPath 
and gave it time review  this and provide further  submissions.
ValidPath provided  further submissions, broadly speaking, it said:
It was not reasonable that it had only been  provided with that information so far into 
the process.
The available information  was insufficient to undertake the type of analysis required 
and highlights the hearsay nature of the case that has been constructed  against it.
The available information  does  not support the position taken by this service.
It is clear from the file that WCFM  breached all of ValidPaths standards  in the way it 
handled the matter.
The letter of 11 April 2007 does outline  a number of key points:
oConfirmation the client wanted  to take a more adventurous approach;
oConfirmation the client had enough income  to wait out volatilities associated 
with a drawdown strategy;
oA direct correlation between the clients desire for exposure to overseas 
property and the use of the Stirling Mortimer fund (although  it did not wish to 
endorse this correlation).
If the information provided is the whole of the file, its conclusion  would be that no 
regulated advice had been  given.
Mr H signed very specific disclaimers which confirm that he was well aware of what 
he was doing.
Valuations of the Stirling Mortimer investment  prior to WCFM leaving ValidPath  
confirm that it was behaving  as would be expected. 
There was no evidence of a client agreement to evidence ValidPaths  involvement.
There was lots of evidence of WCFMs  intentional strategy of non-disclosure and 
hiding of evidence.
WCFM failed  to fulfil its duties to its client between 2010 and 2018, if it had not done 
it is quite possible that Mr H would  not be in the position he now is.
I issued a further provisional decision  to address the issues raised. My provisional  findings 
are attached and form part of my decision. In summary I found  that:
There was sufficient  evidence to reasonably conclude  that it is more  likely than not 
that Mr H was advised to invest  in Stirling  Mortimer by WCFM.
Despite WCFMs  failure to follow  ValidPaths  standard  procedures it is responsible 
for that advice. 
The advice to invest a significant part of Mr Hs pension provision in Stirling Mortimer 
was not suitable. 
I considered the possibility of apportioning responsibility but, because it had been 
confirmed that Mr H would not have had the opportunity to realise his monies after he 
made the investment, he could not have mitigated  the loss at any point  after WCFM 
became directly authorised. So, seeing as ValidPath was responsible for the sale of 
the investment,  it was liable for the full extent  of Mr Hs loss.
Ref: DRN17931645ValidPath did not accept my decision and made further submissions for my consideration. In 
summary, it said:  
It will not go back over old ground, the parties  involved are well aware of the absence 
of reliable evidence  to support the complaint. 
It had no actual record or documentation  relating to Mr Hs dealings  with WCFM.  
No documented  evidence  of advice has been provided. If such  evidence did exist at 
some time (which  there likely would have been if advice had been given) some party  
has effectively and purposefully destroyed it. 
Instead it will focus its submissions on the issue of the complaint  being brought out of 
time, which requires our consideration.  
ValidPath constructed  a timeline from the file provided by us and internet research. In 
relation to this it went on to say: 
It had highlighted  the three triennial drawdown  reviews because these are set dates 
when the state of Mr Hs pension  fund would have been discussed with him through 
the ongoing service  provided by WCFM.
It is not suggesting that Mr H ought to have aware of all of the information from all of 
the sources listed in the compiled timeline  but that the combination  of publicly 
available information, the ongoing meetings  and the reports from Stirling Mortimer it 
is not reasonable to suggest  that Mr H first became  aware  of the problem when the 
fund went into liquidation.
It was WCFMs regulatory responsibility to discuss these matters with Mr H. It was 
not privy  to the information  being  provided to WCFM,  the SIPP provider and Mr H.
To find it responsible for the advice, which went against its published advisory 
standards, we have  imaginatively filled in the gaps  in the file. It is important to put 
together a reasonable narrative  from the available information  this is lacking from 
the narrative constructed by this service.  
The complaint  has been brought too late. Under the six and three  year rules Mr Hs 
complaint would have been time-barred from 2015  onwards. 
The fact that Mr H only raised  his complaint some four months after formal 
notification of the investment going into liquidation raises  questions in and of itself.
In relation to the complaint more generally  it said:  
The issues it has raised  throughout the complaint give insight  into how WCFM was 
operating.
The cumulative  pattern  of the cases against  WCFM strongly indicates intentionality 
on the part of WCFM and it is that intentionality which  has resulted in Mr Hs current  
position rather than any act or omission  on its part. 
Its requirements for the delivery of regulated  advice were based on the FCA 
principles for business, a clear  understanding of TCF (treating customers  fairly) and 
standards it expected to minimise risks to the client. 
It is inexplicable that WCFM could ignore those standards and hide all evidence of 
that and for us not to find WCFM responsible.
The chronology  demonstrates that the case is time-barred and it is clear that it should 
never have been deemed responsible for this case. 
We asked WCFM  for details of any correspondence  it exchanged  or meetings it held with 
Ref: DRN17931646Mr H after it became directly authorised. It sent us a summary of its contact with Mr H. I 
reviewed the information  it provided and was not persuaded that it meant  that the complaint 
had been brought out of time. The investigator  then wrote to ValidPath. He shared the 
information WCFM provided and explained  that I remained of the view that the complaint 
had been brought in time. 
ValidPath made further submissions in response  to this. I considered its response in its 
entirety. Some of the points it made  have been covered in its previous  submissions  and 
summarised above. I have limited  my summary of these submissions to the key points 
raised. 
It set out the timeline of events it believes proves  that the complaint has been brought  too 
late again. ValidPath  went on to say, in summary,  that: 
Insufficient consideration has been given to the detailed chronology it set out and the 
evidence it provided. 
It is inconceivable that the evidence provided by WCFM is correct. 
Mr H was in drawdown,  so the illiquidity  of Stirling Mortimer would have been central 
to any discussions about his pension and of key importance to him. 
It had no record of Mr H or the transaction complained about until information was 
provided during  the course of this complaint.
There is no evidence of the transaction itself or the rationale  behind it, making it all 
the more important to rely on the evidence  that is available.
It seems  we are intentionally ignoring evidence and relying on unsubstantiated  
testimony in order to find that the complaint is not time-barred.
WCFM went out of its way to act as an independent agent, this is evident in its 
actions.
WCFM had an agency with Stirling Mortimer, ValidPath never had an agency  with 
Stirling Mortimer nor would  it have  approved  one. As the authorised firm it was 
responsible for handling and managing all agency relationships.  
In this instance, WCFM chose to intentionally  circumvent standard procedure  
because it knew that this investment would not have been approved.
WCFM should therefore be treated as an independent agent in relation to the actions 
that are the subject  of this complaint. 
The problem is not that of its supervision  but rather  of WCFMs deliberate non-
disclosure.
The complaint  is time-barred and, in addition,  could not conceivably be considered  to 
be its responsibility. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached this case has been passed back to me for final 
decision. 
my findings
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis  of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider. So, I have 
also reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. My consideration of each point is set out below.
Ref: DRN17931647The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions throughout the course of 
the complaint  to support  their position and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I 
have considered these submissions  in their entirety.  However, I trust that they will not take 
the fact that my decision  focuses on what I consider to be the central issues  as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my findings,  on what I consider  to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments.
I have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed these in turn. 
As I have explained above, my provisional findings  are attached  and form part of this 
decision  a number  of the arguments raised by ValidPath  in response to my provisional  
decision cover  issues that I have already considered and addressed within  that decision, so 
 in the absence of new material  evidence   I have not repeated  my findings in respect  of all 
of these at length  again.
Has the complaint  been brought  in time?
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys handbook. These rules are 
referred to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:

(2)more than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other  
record of the complaint  having been received;
unless:
(3)in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP  2.8.7 R was as a result  of exceptional circumstances; 

In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint  where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or (if later)
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that he had cause  for complaint; unless
Ref: DRN17931648The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having  been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within  the applicable time limits.
It is not in dispute  that the event  complained  about  happened more than six years before  the 
complaint was raised. So, I have focused on whether  or not Mr H became  or ought 
reasonably to have  become  aware that he had cause for complaint more  than three  years  
before he raised  the complaint. 
ValidPath says that the press coverage, reports from Stirling  Mortimer and the meetings that 
Mr H ought to have  been having  with WCFM  ought  reasonably to have  led to Mr H becoming 
aware that he had cause  for complaint more than three years before he raised the complaint. 
The press coverage ValidPath referenced was predominantly articles in the financial press.  I 
would not necessarily expect an inexperienced retail client  to be aware  of these. There was 
some information available in the public domain about the issues  the fund was facing. But, 
there was not a national press campaign or prolific  coverage to the point that it would be 
reasonable to conclude  Mr H ought  reasonably  to have  become  aware  that he had cause for 
complaint as a result  of this.
I have not been provided with any evidence that Mr H had meetings with WCFM more  than 
three years before the complaint was raised within which Mr H was given information about 
problems with the investment that ought to have led him to become aware that he had cause 
for complaint. 
I understand that ValidPath believes that I am ignoring the evidence it has provided and, 
instead, basing these conclusions on the testimony of WCFM and Mr H. To be clear, I have 
not reached my findings on the basis of this testimony alone.  The key issue  is that I have not 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr H ought reasonably  to have become aware  
that he had cause for complaint more  than three years  before he raised the complaint. For 
example, ValidPaths arguments rely heavily on WCFM holding ongoing meetings with Mr H 
during which  the problems  with the Stirling Mortimer would have been discussed. I have not 
seen any evidence that such meetings and discussions took place. The fact that such  
conversations ought to have taken place is not proof  that they did take place. 
Taking everything into account,  I am not persuaded that the complaint has not been  brought  
in time.
Evidence of advice  
This point  has been raised and addressed at each stage of this complaint, so I am not going  
to address this again detail. I remain of the view that there is sufficient evidence to 
reasonably conclude that WCFM advised  Mr H to invest in Stirling Mortimer. 
WCFM and Mr H had an ongoing advisory  relationship. It was advising Mr H in relation to his 
pension and holding  meetings with him. After  one such meeting it wrote  to him confirming 
that: 
You wish to take a more adventurous approach with regards to risk in order  that 
your fund has the potential to grow sufficiently to cover the income withdrawals.  
Ref: DRN17931649You were considering  raising some  capital against the value  of your house by way of 
re-mortgage and have considered property purchase abroad. You like the idea of the 
Stirling Mortimer Property Fund which invests in overseas  property and wish to invest  
£50,000 of your SIPP monies  into this.
Mr H says he was advised by WCFM to take this approach. I think  it is more  likely than not 
that that was the case. Mr H was not an experienced  investor  and there is no indication  that 
he came  across this investment himself, the investment came about through  one of his 
regular meetings with WCFM (as his advisor). 
WCFMs behaviour
I remain of the view that WCFM  was acting as AR of ValidPath when it recommended 
Stirling Mortimer to Mr H. There is no evidence that it was acting in any other capacity  and, 
indeed, it could only provide regulated advice in that capacity.  There is not a lot of paperwork 
from the point of sale but the letters we do have are on official WCFM stationary, which 
confirms in the footer that it is an AR of ValidPath. 
I do not think that the fact that WCFM  did not follow ValidPaths procedures means that 
ValidPath is not responsible for its activities. The business that WCFM undertook is of the 
type that ValidPath had accepted responsibility  for, investment advice. WCFM going about  
that business in a way that did not follow the processes  set out by ValidPath does not stop it 
from being responsible for this. 
Summary of conclusions reached  
The complaint  has been brought in time.  
WCFMs activities amounted to the regulated activity of making arrangements and 
advising on investments;
WCFM was acting as ValidPaths AR when it undertook the activities that are the 
subject of this complaint;
There is insufficient evidence that those activities  were  outside the scope of 
ValidPaths AR agreement with WCFM   or, that it was otherwise prevented from 
undertaking these  activities  by the agreement.
There is a distinction between the type of business an AR undertakes and how it 
goes about it. Whilst WCFM may not have  followed the processes ValidPath set out, 
I am not persuaded that this stopped it from being responsible  for WCFMs advice in 
this instance.  
On balance, WCFM did recommend that Mr H invest in Stirling Mortimer.
Despite the issues raised, ValidPath is responsible for that advice.
The advice was not suitable for Mr H in light of his circumstances.
If suitable advice  had been  given  Mr H would  not have ended  up invested  in Stirling  
Mortimer.
I remain of the view that it is fair for ValidPath to compensate Mr H for the financial losses  he 
suffered as a result  of the unsuitable advice. In addition to the financial detriment, I think that 
the loss of a significant amount of his pension also caused Mr H significant distress and 
ValidPath should  compensate him for this as well. 
Fair compensation
Ref: DRN179316410My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr H's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should ValidPath do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, ValidPath must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
ValidPath should  add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, ValidPath should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If ValidPath is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
I think Mr H is likely to be a basic rate tax payer, so the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been  able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £750 for the distress caused  by the loss of a significant proportion of his 
pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ValidPath deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. ValidPath should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Stirling 
Mortimerstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
Ref: DRN179316411compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. ValidPath  should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If ValidPath is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed  to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. ValidPath may require  that Mr H provides an undertaking  to 
pay ValidPath any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. ValidPath will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ValidPath totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
A medium risk investment would have been  suitable for Mr H. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances  and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN179316412My final decision  
I find that this is a complaint we can consider, and my final decision is that I uphold the 
complaint. My decision is that ValidPath Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out 
above.
ValidPath Limited  should  provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2020.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
I must decide whether  we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules  that apply. 
Having done so, I have  concluded the complaint  is one we can consider. So, I have also considered  
all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
this complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. My consideration  of each point  is set out below.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching 
them.
The responses to my provisional  decision  cover  a number of different points and arguments.
Ref: DRN179316413I have broken these down into the below  topics and addressed these in turn. As I have explained  
above, my provisional findings are attached and form part of this decision  a number of the 
arguments raised  by ValidPath in response to my provisional decision  cover issues  that I have 
already considered and addressed within  that decision, so  in the absence  of new material  evidence 
 I have not repeated my findings in respect of all of these at length again.
I apologise to both Mr H and ValidPath for the time it has taken for us to get to this point.  It is clear 
that both parties  feel strongly  about what  the outcome of the complaint should be and that this is an 
emotive issue for both.
Jurisdiction
evidence of advice
As acknowledged in my provisional decision and in the investigators view before  that, there is very 
limited evidence from the time of the sale. It is always unfortunate where there is insufficient evidence  
to build  a definitively  clear picture of what  has happened.  Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory  (as some  of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In this instance,  I am satisfied that there is enough to conclude that it is more likely  than not that 
WCFM was acting as ValidPaths  AR in respect of the activities that are the subject of this complaint 
and that it recommended Stirling Mortimer to Mr H.
WCFM had an on-going advisory relationship with Mr H, it recommended  the pension that was later 
the wrapper for the Stirling Mortimer investment and was holding regular reviews with him. It was as a 
result of one of these reviews that the investment came about. After that meeting WCFM wrote to Mr 
H saying:
You wish to take a more  adventurous approach  with regards to risk in order that your fund 
has the potential to grow sufficiently to cover the income  withdrawals.
You were considering raising some capital  against the value of your house by way of re-
mortgage and have considered property purchase abroad. You like the idea of the Stirling 
Mortimer Property Fund which invests in overseas  property and wish to invest £50,000 of 
your SIPP monies  into this. 
WCFM then went on to facilitate the investment.  There is no indication that Mr H was aware of Stirling 
Mortimer prior to that meeting. Equally,  there is nothing  that would point to an execution only sale or  
otherwise  that a non-advisory process was followed.
Taking all of this into account along with Mr Hs submissions, I remain of the view that
WCFM did undertake the regulated activity of making  arrangements in investments  at very least  
and, more  likely than not, recommended Stirling Mortimer to Mr H.
ValidPaths responsibility for its ARs activities
ValidPath feels strongly that it is unreasonable for it to be held responsible for WCFMs activities 
which are the subject of this complaint. Its reasons for this focus on the fact that:
WCFMs non-disclosure  of its activities meant that it could not have accepted responsibility for 
these;
It did not have the opportunity to supervise  and potentially mitigate the impact of  those 
activities.
That WCFM failed to follow the required internal procedures.
Ref: DRN179316414By acting  in the manner that it did, WCFM was acting in breach  of its agreement and 
compliance requirements.
ValidPath does  not have  a copy  of the agreement it said it sent to WCFM  but WCFM  did not return. 
Based on the available evidence, I think it is clear that ValidPath wanted to appoint  WCFM as its AR 
and that it was its intention to enter into a contract with WCFM  under which  it would  accept 
responsibility for the business it permitted  WCFM to undertake. Both parties agreed to the terms of 
the written contract by way of their conduct,  which  included notifying the then regulator that WCFM 
was an AR of ValidPath.
So, I am satisfied  that WCFM was ValidPaths  AR at the time of the sale. In appointing
WCFM as its AR ValidPath took on responsibility for WCFMs activities as its AR within the scope of 
that appointment.
ValidPath has provided a copy  of an agreement which another  of its ARs was subject to and said that 
the same terms applied to WCFM. That contract set out the business  that ValidPath accepted 
responsibility for. I have reviewed the agreement and I am not persuaded that it would stop ValidPath 
from being  responsible for WCFMs activities in this instance. Amongst other things in respect of the 
appointment the agreement provided:
AGREEMENT

2. The Company accepts responsibility  for the activities of the Member  carrying on investment 
business of the kind and for the purposes for which  the Member is hereby appointed.
3. The Member hereby  agrees to act as an agent on behalf of the Company in respect of the 
 Products (as defined herein) pursuant to the written Terms  and Conditions  and hereby 
confirms he/she has read and fully understood to the same Terms  and Conditions.
And
Products means policies of assurance, annuity contracts, pensions plans or policies and 
such other products  and services (including but without limitation critical illness and 
permanent health insurance policies) and term assurance policies as shall from time to time 
be dealt in by the Company  subject (in the case of investment business) to the provisions of 
Schedule 3.
And
2. Functions  of Member
2.1 The member is appointed  for the purpose of procuring or endeavouring  to procure clients 
and prospective Clients to enter into Contracts and (for that purpose) giving advice to clients 
and prospective clients about entering into such Contracts.
Schedule 3 sets out the scope of ValidPaths  permission and requires that ARs not undertake  any 
investment business that falls outwith the scope of ValidPaths permissions.
The advice complained about in this case was business  of the type ValidPath  accepted responsibility 
for. Whilst  it has been argued that a number  of its internal  processes had not been  followed, not 
following a particular process does not make it business for which ValidPath  did not accept 
responsibility. This is a matter between it and its AR. The courts have provided some useful 
commentary in respect  of this  for example,  in Anderson v Sense  Network [2018] EWHC 2834, the 
judge said that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate  that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
Ref: DRN179316415responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
Whilst I have  taken into account everything ValidPath has submitted about  WCFMs behaviour  and 
it is clear that there  have been problems in the relationship  I remain of the view that this does not 
mean that ValidPath is not responsible for its former ARs activities.
So, I have found that:
WCFMs activities amounted to the regulated activity of making arrangements and  most 
likely, advising on investments;
WCFM was acting as ValidPaths  AR when  it undertook the activities that are the subject of 
this complaint;
There is insufficient evidence  that those activities were outside the scope of ValidPaths  AR 
agreement with WCFM  or, that it was otherwise prevented from undertaking  these activities 
by the agreement.
Merits
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in respect of the 
individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant.
Suitability of the investment
There is not a lot of information from the point  of sale but, based on what we know about  Mr Hs 
circumstances, I think that the advice  to invest a significant portion of his pension into an unregulated 
esoteric investment was unsuitable.
Whilst the documentation suggests that Mr H wanted to take a more  adventurous approach, I do not 
think that an adventurous  approach was appropriate  for him or that that justified the investment 
strategy employed in this instance. Particularly when  taking into account  that the purpose of taking a 
more adventurous  was said to be to cover  the income withdrawals. This is indicative of someone 
looking to ensure  that his pension fund was not eroded by any withdrawals being  made; not someone 
who wanted  to  or could afford to  put a significant proportion of his fund at risk of being illiquid or 
lost entirely.
Mr H owned a property which he let out and, in accordance  with the letter; he had been considering  
raising capital against his property by way of re-mortgaging. But, I am not convinced that this meant 
that Mr H had experience in or a good understanding of unregulated high risk property investments 
like Stirling Mortimer.
Under the circumstances, I am not persuaded on the balance  of the evidence that Mr H had the 
knowledge or experience to really understand  the risks involved in the transaction or that he had the 
capacity for loss to bear these  risks.
I have not seen anything that would  lead me to conclude that Mr H was likely  to disregard suitable 
advice, so I think that if WCFM had given Mr H suitable advice, in this instance,  he would have 
listened to this and would not have ended up investing in Stirling Mortimer.
Ref: DRN179316416Apportioning of responsibility
I have found that ValidPath was responsible for WCFMs  activities that are the subject of this 
complaint  so, I think it is responsible for the mis-sale of Stirling Mortimer.
In light of WCFM later becoming directly authorised, I thought about  whether  or not there would have 
been an opportunity for WCFM to avoid or mitigate Mr Hs losses by reviewing the investment and 
giving suitable advice. But, as I explained  in my provisional decision the investment provider has 
confirmed that there is no point at which the investment could have been surrendered after it was 
made  so, even if Mr H had received  suitable advice at a review,  he would not have been able to 
mitigate or avoid the loss he has suffered.
This means  that I cannot fairly and reasonably apportion Mr Hs loss between  the two firms.
For all intents  and purposes, as soon as Mr H made the investment, he could not have avoided the 
losses he has suffered (due to how things have  transpired in terms of the investment made).  As I 
have found that ValidPath was responsible for the advice to invest in Stirling  Mortimer  and that that 
advice was unsuitable  it is liable for the losses incurred as a result  of this in full.
In summary I have found that:
On balance,  it is more likely than not, that WCFM did recommend that Mr H invest in Stirling  
Mortimer.
Despite the issues raised, ValidPath is responsible  for that advice.
The advice was not suitable for Mr H in light of his circumstances.
If suitable  advice had been given Mr H would not have ended up invested in Stirling Mortimer.
Taking all of this into account, as above, I think it is reasonable for ValidPath to compensate Mr H for 
the full measure  of his losses in respect of the complaint raised. In addition to the financial loss Mr H 
has suffered  I think that this situation has caused him a significant amount  of distress and 
inconvenience  ValidPath should compensate him for this in addition  to his financial losses,  I have 
accounted for this below.
Ref: DRN1793164