K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, wont  refund to him the £1,470  
deposit that he paid for a replacement roof.
background
 
Mr W paid a deposit of £1,470 from his Halifax bank account to a home  improvement 
company in February 2018 for a replacement roof. He wasnt  satisfied with the quality and 
thickness of the wood that was to be used when the home improvement company arrived  to 
start work in March 2018  so it left without doing  anything. It agreed to return with different 
wood the following month - but again Mr W wasnt satisfied with the wood so no work was 
done. He asked for a refund of his deposit but that was refused by the home improvement 
company so Mr W asked Halifax to make a chargeback. It said that the home  improvement  
company had offered a partial refund but Mr W said that he hadnt received any refund. And 
Halifax then said that the 120 day period in which a chargeback could be made had ended.  
Mr W complained  to Halifax but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Halifax 
shouldve raised  a chargeback claim on behalf of Mr W. And she recommended  that it 
should refund £1,470 to Mr W with interest  and that it should  pay him £200  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Halifax has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in 
summary, that Mr Ws contract with the home improvement company doesnt state what  the 
thickness of the wood would be and that theres  no evidence  that the wood was 
misrepresented to him. It has also referred in detail to the applicable scheme rules and says 
that its bound by, and cant act outside,  them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made.
Mr W contacted  Halifax  about  a chargeback in May 2018. It didnt make  a chargeback claim 
and then told him that the period in which a chargeback claim could be made had ended. But 
it was clear from what Mr W had told it that he wasnt  satisfied  with the wood that was to be 
used. And he says that hed been  shown  a video by the home  improvement company and 
that he understood that the boards  on his roof would be replaced with thicker  boards to 
ensure that his property was warmer for the next winter. 
When Mr W wasnt satisfied with the quality  and thickness of the wood that was to be used 
in March 2018, the home improvement company agreed to return  with different wood. And 
when Halifax contacted the home improvement company it said that Mr W would be offered 
a partial refund  but he didnt receive  a refund.
Ref: DRN19709022I consider that it wouldve  been fair and reasonable in these  circumstances for Halifax to 
have made  a chargeback request to the home  improvement company. The home 
improvement company  couldve then defended  the chargeback if it didnt  accept it  and 
there would then have been the option  of arbitration.  But Halifax didnt make  a chargeback 
claim and it wrote to Mr W to tell him that the period  in which  it could do so had ended.  
Mr W is a disabled pensioner who had suffered with hypothermia  and I consider that 
Halifaxs failure to make  a chargeback request will have caused him considerable distress 
and inconvenience.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Halifax to refund to 
Mr W the deposit of £1,470 that he paid to the home improvement company (with  interest) 
and to pay him £200 to compensate him for the distress and in convenience that hes been  
caused.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. And I order Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:
1.Refund to Mr W the £1,470 deposit  that he paid to the home  improvement  
company. 
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3.Pay £200 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax to deduct tax from the interest payment referred  to 
at 2 above. Halifax must give Mr W a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1970902