K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mrs I says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
Santander was trading  as Abbey National at the time. To keep things simple, Ill refer to the 
lender as Santander throughout my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Is case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs I took out her mortgage  in 1983  and no PPI was attached to her account at that point. 
She took out a home improver loan secured to her property in 2001 and did take PPI 
alongside this.
Mrs I says it wasnt emphasised that the PPI was optional or that it was a separate product. 
Santander has given  me a copy  of the loan application form, but this doesnt specifically 
mention PPI. Santander has confirmed that it has never been a requirement to have PPI 
alongside a secured loan.  In order for me to agree  with Mrs I, Id have to agree it was more 
likely that Santander  incorrectly told her she had to have the policy when she didnt. 
While this is possible, I dont think its the most likely  scenario. I dont have anything  that 
supports this and Mrs I hasnt gone into much detail about what happened during the sale. I 
also note that Mrs I had already borrowed  funds  against her property in the form of her 
mortgage and hadnt had PPI on this previously. So I think she was aware  she could borrow  
against her property without taking PPI. Mrs I only selected unemployment cover and didnt 
take the additional benefits of accident and sickness.  So I think  she was aware she could 
amend the policy  to suit her needs.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Santander made it clear  that Mrs I 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs I so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs I about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Mrs I has said she had no savings around  the time of the sale. And the policy  couldve 
covered her for up to 12 months  per claim if she was made redundant. It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN12460732Ive also thought about the commission Mrs I paid on her PPI  and whether Santander 
treated her unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mrs Is PPI was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Is commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about  the commission   
so I dont think Santander treated her unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs I back 
any of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1246073