K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay him enough for his written-off classic car 
when he made a claim on his motor  insurance policy. He also says it deducted  too much  for 
the cars  salvage  value. Mr H is represented  by Mr K.
background
Mr Hs car was written-off in a non-fault accident  in 2018. Ageas offered him £13,000 for it, 
minus a deduction of £2,600 for the salvage.  Mr H said it was worth  £18,000. Mr K carried 
out research and said it was worth  over £22,000. Mr H then got a report  from an 
independent motor vehicle damage assessor (Mr P). Based on his research, Mr P said the 
car was worth  £21,000. He thought a reasonable salvage value was 5% of that, as the car 
was rare and there  was unlikely to be a demand for its salvaged  parts.   
One of our investigators  considered Mr Hs complaint. He checked  two classic car guides,  
which showed a valuation for the car at around  £14,650. But he also took into account the 
submissions made by Mr P and Mr K. They both provided a range  of adverts and Mr P 
sought statements  from members of the cars  owners club.  The investigator noted that Mr H 
had spent many hours developing the car, thereby increasing its value. He concluded that 
Ageas should  pay Mr H £20,000  for it, minus 5% for the salvage.
Mr H accepted the investigators view. Mr K said Ageas should also pay Mr H £100 for 
Mr Ps report, plus £350 for his own services.  And he thought it should also pay Mr H 
interest, plus compensation for distress  and inconvenience, especially given the time that 
had elapsed since the claim was made. 
Ageas didnt accept  the investigators view.  Its senior engineer  said he agreed with the 
assessment made by Ageass  original engineer. He said Mr Hs car was in a poorer  
condition than some  of the examples  provided in support  of his claim. He thought  it wasnt 
dissimilar to a car on sale for £5,000. He said other adverts showed cars that were  in 
excellent condition,  whilst  Mr Hs car was only in fair condition. He didnt accept  that the car 
had a competition bias to it. He also disagreed  with the salvage deduction at 5%. He said a 
set of wheels  for the car alone was worth  £700.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
As Mr Hs car is a classic,  with rare features and improved performance  from its original  
state, I dont think establishing a fair market value  for it is straightforward.  
The initial report from Ageass engineer  focused  on the poor paintwork  and some  missing 
interior trim. The engineer  did note that the engine, suspension, interior  and bodywork had 
been modified.  But he didnt comment on the modifications, nor did he refer to their rarity or 
say what effect they may have had on the cars performance. The senior  engineer later 
agreed with him and commented on the cars  fair condition. 
I think the details  in Mr Ps report are more persuasive than the arguments  put forward by 
Ageas. We normally give great  weight  to the views of independent engineers and assessors, 
whose duty is to the court. Mr P accepted that the price  of cars similar to Mr Hs car ranged 
from as low as £5,000 (when needing complete restoration) to £50,000  in pristine  condition.  
He said it wasnt a road-biased, standard car and identified  that it was one of only six in 
Ref: DRN18645012Europe that had mechanical fuel injection. He also noted the other  features  fitted  to it in over 
30 years  of development by Mr H. He said the car wasnt in immaculate condition  but had 
it been so it would have been  even more valuable. 
Mr Ps view was that Mr Hs car (as modified) was exceptionally rare. He said a replacement 
would need a great deal of modification,  which would cost many thousands of pounds  
assuming the required  parts were available.  He said some of the items fitted  to Mr Hs car 
were so rare they couldnt be sourced in the UK. He found one example  of its fuel injection 
system (in the USA) at a cost of around £3,000. In terms of salvage,  Mr P contacted several 
salvage agents who said the car wasnt a desirable  salvage proposition.  They said that was 
due to the problem in getting a good return on it, given the limited market.  He concluded that 
5% was reasonable for a salvage deduction  and valued the car at £21,000.    
The three statements  provided by members  of the cars owners  club are from people  known 
to Mr H, so they arent independent. But I dont think their content can be entirely 
disregarded because  of that. The statements confirm that the cars performance had been 
substantially enhanced by Mr H over many  years and that it was a one-off. That supports 
Mr Ps view.  They say the car was well-known in the UK and was driven in competitions. All 
three members said the car was equivalent  to one with a higher (1.6 litre) engine  given all 
Mr Hs work  on it. I think its more  likely  than not that the members  comments  are accurate.
The research I carried out showed that cars similar  to Mr Hs car (perhaps in better 
condition, but without the upgraded engine) were mainly priced  between  £18,995 and 
£21,995. Similar cars with a higher  specification  engine  were advertised at much higher 
prices. So taking everything into account, I think  it would be fair and reasonable for Ageas to 
pay Mr H £20,000 for his car, as the investigator suggested. In terms of a deduction for 
salvage, Mr Ps research appears to show that the open market salvage value is likely  to be 
5%. To date, I dont think Ageas has provided evidence to justify a 20% deduction, so at the 
moment I think a 5% deduction would be fair and reasonable. 
I think Ageas  should add 8% interest to the payment made to Mr H for his car, but not to the 
whole sum.  The file notes show that Ageas offered  an interim payment to Mr H on 
7 February 2019,  and that it was refused. Mr H could have accepted  it and still contested the 
cars valuation. So I think the interest should  be paid from the date of that offer on the 
difference between  the interim  offer and the full sum to be paid to Mr H for the car.   
I can see why Mr H asked an independent assessor to provide a report.  I think  it would be 
reasonable to require  Ageas to pay for it. Mr H was entitled to appoint Mr K as a paid 
representative, but as I dont  think that was necessary,  I dont think  Ageas should have to 
pay for that. 
Mr H hasnt had the benefit of his car since the accident, but as it wasnt his day-to-day 
vehicle, I dont think Ageas should  have to pay him for loss of use. But I have no doubt that 
Mr H has been upset  and inconvenienced by not having been  offered the cars  full value. 
Overall I think  it would be fair and reasonable for Ageas to pay Mr H £350 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Ageas said it had nothing  to add. 
Mr K said Mr H accepted my findings  in relation to the car. But he thought there should be a 
loss of use payment  for Mr H. At £10 a day, he thought  Mr H was due well over £56,000. 
And he thought  the award for distress and inconvenience should fall within  the category we 
class as severe, so Ageas should pay Mr H £2,000 as a minimum. Mr K said that as a 
Ref: DRN18645013layperson, Mr H was entitled to seek the services of an expert. As Mr K had carried  out 
investigations on his behalf, he thought Ageas should refund his charges to Mr H.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont usually say businesses should pay consumers for the loss of use of a car that isnt 
the day to day vehicle they rely on for transport. Mr H lost the enjoyment of using his car at 
special events and was also frustrated by not being paid the full sum for his vehicle.  If he 
accepts my decision, Mr H will get the rest of the sum due for the car, plus interest.  I still 
think £350 compensation is a reasonable sum to reflect his general loss of enjoyment and 
frustration. Mr H was entitled to ask Mr K to work on his behalf. But as I dont think that was 
essential, I remain of the view that Ageas shouldnt  have to refund  the sum he paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr H £20,000 for his car, minus a deduction of 5% for the salvage
Add interest to the difference between the interim offer and the full payment due to 
Mr H, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the interim offer to the date of 
the settlement
Pay Mr H £100 for the independent assessors report
Pay Mr H £350 for distress and inconvenience
If Ageas thinks its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1864501