K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr D had four loans with Sunny. The first was line of credit (LOC) while allowed Mr D to 
make drawdowns up to a specified limit. Loans 3 to 4 were  instalment loans. Ive 
summarised some of the information Sunny provided about the loans in the tables below.
Loan  no. Start End Amount (£)
1 (LOC) 22/05/2014 16/06/2015 variable
2 17/02/2015 30/06/2015 100
3 21/03/2015 16/05/2015 50
4 17/05/2015 15/10/2015 300
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld in respect of loan 
4. Sunny didnt agree  with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. As 
Mr D didnt say anything  further about  loans  1 to 3, my decision will focus on loan 4  the 
only loan still in dispute.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  in respect  of loan 4 and have explained why below.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay his loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN15559292By the time Mr D asked for loan 4, hed been borrowing from Sunny for about  a year. Initially,  
Mr D was making drawdowns from his line of credit (loan 1) account  between May and 
December 2014.  Mr Ds limit was £500  and he borrowed about £1,200 across nine separate 
drawdowns. I understand that this type of account  was withdrawn by Sunny at around the 
time of Mr Ds last drawdown.
There was a gap of about two months between  Mr Ds last drawdown on loan 1 and loan 2. 
I dont think thats  a particularly significant  break,  especially  as Mr D hadnt  repaid the 
balance of loan 1 before taking loan 2. In my view, the first instalment loan (loan 2) 
essentially acted as an extension of the running  account agreement,  in circumstances where  
the running account agreement had been withdrawn. I think  the same is true of loans 3 and 
4  and that realistically there  was one continuous chain of borrowing spanning all of Mr Ds 
loans.
With that in mind, Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending  across loans 1 to 4 to see if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further lending.  Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think 
that this point was reached by loan 4. I say this because:
Mr D had been regularly accessing high-cost short-term credit  for about a year,  the 
amount he borrowed  for loan 4 was the largest single amount hed borrowed to date 
and the loan was taken out the day after Mr D had repaid loan 3. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was likely Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. And so he was 
in effect paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny unfairly prolonged his indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time.
So Im upholding  Mr Ds  complaint about  loan 4 because the overall  pattern of lending 
increased his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and he lost 
out as a result.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove loan 4 from Mr Ds credit  history
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint  in part. Elevate Credit International  Limited must put things right 
by taking the steps set out above.
Ref: DRN15559293Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1555929