K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr R complain  about an early repayment charge (ERC) they were charged when 
they made an overpayment to their mortgage  with Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax.
background
Mrs M and Mr R have  had a mortgage  with Halifax  for many  years.  They had had a series of 
fixed rates  in the past, but had been on the standard variable rate (SVR) for a while. They 
then took a new fixed rate online. This was a two-year  rate, with an ERC of 3% in the first 
year and 2% in the second. 
A few months later, Mrs M and Mr R inherited some money. They decided to use it to repay 
a large part of their mortgage balance. Halifax charged an ERC on the amount they overpaid 
by, so Mrs M and Mr R complained. They didnt  think it fair to charge the ERC given their 
long history as customers of Halifax. They thought it had made considerable profit  from them 
over the years  including while theyd been on the SVR, and in the past when previous fixed 
rates had been higher  than the falling base  rate. They said its customer  service  had been 
poor. And they didnt think the ERC was a reasonable amount in relation to the cost of their 
overpayment, or had been calculated fairly.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mrs M and Mr R asked for it 
to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virtually all fixed  rate deals  from all lenders, not just Halifax  have an ERC associated 
with them.  This means that if the rate comes  to an end early, the borrower has to pay the 
ERC. And  as happened  in this case  an ERC  also applies if the balance is reduced 
beyond a pre-agreed limit (here,  10%). 
Ive looked at the terms of the mortgage offer. I can see that the ERC is clearly  set out and is 
explained in the way the regulator  requires  it to be. And the offer also makes clear that an 
ERC is also payable  if the balance is reduced.  Again, that explanation is given in the way the 
regulator expects.  So to that extent  Halifax hasnt done anything  wrong.  It told Mrs M and 
Mr R what the ERC would be and when it would  be charged, in the way it was supposed to.
The rules  of mortgage regulation dont just say how an ERC should be explained; they also 
set out how it should  be calculated. 
In very simple terms, when  a lender offers  a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower are tied 
in to the fixed rate for the whole fixed term. Halifax has to raise  the funds it lends out on the 
money markets, and from its savers. It has to pay for those funds, including  paying interest. 
Funds raised  on the money markets  are raised over a specific  period. Halifax relies on 
income from borrowers repaying  the mortgages  to cover the costs of the funds  it has lent. It 
budgets for that income based on the length and level of fixed rates. If the lending is repaid 
early, it loses  future interest income  and often incurs further costs  in paying back money  it 
has raised early.
Ref: DRN16927022So when borrowers repay early,  the lender wont receive the income it was anticipating, and 
needs to receive  to service its own borrowing or pay its savers.  It can insure against that in 
various ways, but theres a cost either  to having  the borrowing  end early   or to protect  
against those  costs. As a result, fixed rate mortgages  not just with Halifax,  but across the 
industry  include  a clause in the mortgage agreement allowing for an ERC. An ERC isnt a 
penalty  which has a strict meaning in law (a charge levied for breaching a contract). 
Repaying a mortgage early (in full or in part) isnt a breach of the contract, its something 
specifically allowed for, as long as the borrower pays the charge  for doing so.
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres 
no restriction on how a lender calculates its ERC. And, crucially, a lender is allowed  to 
estimate the risk and costs of early  termination  across a group of mortgages; it doesnt have 
to do so on an individual basis.
So Halifax  can calculate its ERCs based  on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs  of early 
termination of a group of mortgages   not on the actual cost, or estimated  cost, of Mrs M and 
Mr R repaying  earlier.
In practice, it cant be known at the time the mortgage is taken out whether an individual 
borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate 
in advance the costs of ending the particular mortgage early. But the lender can estimate  
how many  borrowers, on average, will do so  and apply those costs  across a group of 
mortgages. The price  of the mortgage,  both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level 
that allows the lender to recover its costs and operate its business.
Halifax has sent us information about  how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages of the type 
Mrs M and Mr R held was calculated. Its done so in confidence.  Our  rules allow  either party 
to a complaint  to submit evidence in confidence. Its then for us to decide if its fair to rely on 
it when deciding the outcome. The information Halifax  has given us is commercially  sensitive 
and confidential.  But its also material  and highly relevant to this complaint. So Im satisfied 
that its appropriate for me to receive it in confidence, subject to me summarising  it. 
In summary,  the information shows that theres  a cost to Halifax in having  to break the 
arrangements it has entered into to fund its mortgages when  the mortgage is repaid  early. It 
allocates that cost across  its mortgages factoring in an estimate of how many  will end before  
their fixed  rates expire.  It then uses that estimate to set the ERC  which  is built in to every  
mortgage  in the expectation that if the predicted number of mortgages  end early, overall 
the ERCs  generated will cover the costs  to Halifax of early  termination.
The ERC Mrs M and Mr R paid isnt designed to reflect the specific  losses Halifax  incurred 
because they repaid  part of their mortgage  early. That calculation hasnt been done  though  
given they over-paid  near the start of the fixed rate term,  it may well be that in this case the 
actual costs were above the average. But thats  not relevant to the fairness of what Halifax 
charged  because its allowed to estimate the costs  across  a group of mortgages  in 
advance, rather  than calculate  them after the fact on an individual mortgage. This approach 
of applying the ERC across a group of mortgages, rather  than individually,  is something 
specifically allowed for in the regulators rules,  so I dont think  its an unfair approach.
 
The information Halifax has provided shows that it set the ERC  at a level that reflected its 
reasonable estimate of the likely costs. I understand  Mrs M and Mr Rs concern that they 
Ref: DRN16927023havent seen the detailed  calculation. But Ive explained why that is, and summarised the 
evidence we have.  And Ive borne  in mind that as a result we dont have  their comments on 
the detail. Having taken all that into account, I think Halifax did set the ERC at a level that 
was a reasonable pre-estimate, in line with the rules. And it charged it to Mrs M and Mr R 
when they overpaid  their mortgage, in line with the mortgage offer.
I note Mrs M and Mr R have been longstanding customers. But ultimately  I dont think  that 
makes any difference  to whether  there  is a cost to Halifax where this fixed  rate ends or is 
overpaid early  or any difference to whether Halifax can fairly recover  those costs.  I think  it 
can, and thats  why I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1692702