K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mrs W complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Standard Life Client  
Management Limited (SLCM) to take out an annuity when she was seriously ill.
background
Mrs W had a capped income  drawdown plan which she took out in 2011. She was taking 
income from it to pay towards  her business. In January 2014  she approached SLCM  to 
review how to take benefits from her pension. 
The fact find recorded  Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives as follows:
Mrs W was 66 years old, divorced, and had no dependants.
Her business had folded and left her with £35,000 of business debts which  she 
hoped would  be written off.
She had taken equity  release to pay off mortgage debts.
She was receiving income  from her state  pension and state allowances  of around 
£9,500 per year which gave  her a monthly income of £793. Her outgoings  were  
£1,800 of which £700 were fixed outgoings  and £1,100 were variable outgoings. This 
left her with a monthly deficit of £1,007.
The drawdown plan was her only pension with a value of around  £120,000. The 
pension was fully vested. The maximum income  she could draw per year was just 
over £9,000.
She had been  battling cancer since April 2013 but was now clear.  She was more 
pragmatic about her outlook.  She wasnt concerned  about maintaining  benefits  for 
beneficiaries but was living for herself.
Mrs W was seeking  a secure, permanent, regular income, now that she stopped 
working. 
Because of her health she wanted a fixed income. She didnt want the risk of her 
pension dropping in value. She had no desire to remain invested and wanted to 
remove all capital risk. For this reason  she had asked to move  her drawdown plan 
into cash pending a decision on pension income
She wanted to have  an emergency fund of around £3,000-£4,000.
SLCM recommended her an enhanced annuity  on the following  basis:  single life, level,  paid 
monthly in arrears, with a five-year  guarantee period. Mrs W accepted this recommendation 
and the annuity started  in February  2014. Sadly Mrs W passed away a few months later in 
May 2014 due to her cancer.  
As Mrs W had a guarantee  period on her annuity, this continued to be paid to her two 
children until the five years expired in 2019.
Mrs Ws estate, represented by Mrs Ws children, complained to SLCM that a value 
protection annuity would  have been more  suitable  for their mother  which would have 
protected any unused  funds. They  also say this would have allowed them  to receive the 
pension funds as a lump sum. 
They say the adviser knew that Mrs W was severely ill. On 31 October 2013, Mrs Ws ex-
husband had sent a letter to the adviser explaining that Mrs Ws cancer had spread to her 
brain and that she had to go through eight further  weeks of chemotherapy  to remove that 
Ref: DRN16131112tumour followed by 21 sessions of radiotherapy  to remove  the remaining tumour from a 
different part of her body.  He said she was very ill and in hospital.
SLCM said they knew about Mrs Ws medical  history and that is why they could secure her 
an enhanced annuity, but she had told the adviser in January that she was clear of cancer.  
Mrs W didnt want to remain in drawdown as she didnt want the risk anymore and she 
wanted a secure  income. It was the adviser who had recommended  a five-year  guarantee 
period. Mrs W herself had made it clear she was living  for herself  and wasnt concerned  
about maintaining benefits for her beneficiaries. 
SLCM also says the adviser  was restricted to recommend products from a certain panel of 
providers and they didnt offer a value  protection annuity, so he couldnt recommend this 
product. Mrs W was told about the option  to go to the open  market and that other  providers 
might have products  that gave a higher income or a more suitable product, but she was 
content to receive  advice  from SLCM. SLCM says an annuity was meeting  Mrs Ws 
objectives. The argument that it was unsuitable is made with hindsight.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said SLCMs adviser  knew  
from the letter sent in October that Mrs W was severely ill and still had to go through  two 
months of chemotherapy, followed by radiotherapy. The income  through  the annuity  was 
only £3,000 per year more than the income  she could have got from the drawdown.  The 
adviser should have recommended  her to keep taking income from her drawdown and 
review her pension again in 12 months when the situation about her health  was clearer.  He 
thought SLCM should put the estate in the position it would have been in if Mrs W had 
remained in drawdown.
SLCM disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should  be upheld for broadly the same reasons. 
SLCM couldnt  advise on a value protection annuity and Mrs W was informed  about  her 
option to go on the open market which might have different products. So I dont think  Mrs W 
not ending up with this product is SLCM s responsibility.
I dont doubt that Mrs W wanted  a secure  income and that that she didnt want to be 
exposed to any risks to her capital.  And I have  taken into account that during the fact-finding  
exercise Mrs W wasnt overly concerned about  maintaining any benefits for her 
beneficiaries. She wanted to live for herself. So in ordinary circumstances the 
recommendation to take out an annuity  would have been suitable. And I can see that the 
adviser recommended an enhanced annuity  with a guaranteed period which is reasonable 
for someone  who has a potentially life-reducing health condition.
However, I dont think recommending an annuity  was right in Mrs Ws particular 
circumstances. It looks  like Mrs W told the adviser  she was clear of cancer. I appreciate that 
SLCM says the adviser was allowed to rely on what his client  was telling him. And generally, 
if the adviser had no information that was contradicting this, I would agree. However, the 
adviser had received a letter less than three months  earlier that Mrs Ws cancer  had spread 
and that she had to undergo two further months of chemotherapy for a tumour in her brain,  
Ref: DRN16131113followed by 21 sessions  of radiotherapy. She had still been severely ill and in hospital a 
couple of months  earlier. Based on this information Mrs W was likely still having treatment 
for cancer  or even if she had finished  the treatments, it would have been very recently. So I 
would have expected the adviser to ask Mrs W a few more questions about  this.
In any event, even  if Mrs W thought she had beaten her cancer, it would  have been  very 
early days  in her recovery stage. I dont think it was suitable advice to make  an immediate 
decision to take out a lifetime annuity which couldnt  be changed without exploring possible 
alternatives. Even if she had made a full recovery, her plans for retirement might have 
changed. She might have  decided for example to go back to work. The advisers job wasnt 
just to execute what Mrs W wanted. It was to make sure any recommendation would be in 
her best interest  and take into account everything  he knew about  her circumstances. 
Mrs W didnt want to take any risks with her pension  anymore due to her health. However, 
the adviser had already moved her funds into cash,  so she wasnt  invested any longer. 
Mrs W could have continued to take an income from her drawdown  plan without  any risk.  So  
one of her main objectives had already been  achieved. The annuity  just about covered 
Mrs Ws outgoings, so the adviser had already  stated that one of her objectives-an  
emergency fund of £3,000-£4,000- wasnt currently achievable. 
The maximum income she could draw from her existing plan would have been around £250  
gross per month less than the annuity.  Whilst leaving  her with a monthly  deficit, Mrs W did 
have some emergency funds which she could have  used to cover  this for about  three  
months. The fact find also said £1,100  of her outgoings were  variable, so she might have 
been able to make this last longer. Overall, based  on the information available, I think  a 
slightly reduced income for a temporary  period  would likely have been manageable for 
Mrs W.
In summary,  I dont think there was an immediate need for Mrs W to lock herself into an 
annuity. Her life had changed dramatically in the past year. She had been  severely  ill and 
she lost her business. And she was just starting to feel better. She should have been 
advised to defer any irrevocable decisions for maybe 6-12 months  until she could be sure 
her health  had stabilised, and she had a better idea of what her retirement would look like. 
And she could have been assured that her capital was not exposed  to risk during this time.  
I think if this advice had been given, Mrs W likely would have followed it.
So on balance I dont  think the recommendation made to take out the annuity straight away  
was suitable in her circumstances. 
putting things right
If SLCM had given  Mrs W suitable  advice, she likely would have stayed in her drawdown 
plan (invested in cash)  and taken income from it. When  she passed away in May 2014, the 
remainder of her pension pot would have been passed to her beneficiaries.
To put Mrs Ws estate in the position  it would be in now if this had happened, SLCM  should:
Ref: DRN16131114Work  out the value  of Mrs Ws drawdown plan at the date of her death if the annuity 
had not been purchased. SLCM can assume that Mrs W would have taken a monthly 
income from the drawdown  plan (1/12  of the GAD maximum  income) for the months 
she would have  been able to.
Deduct from this figure, the gross amount actually paid under the annuity, including 
the payments  made to the beneficiaries during  the guarantee period.
The difference represents  the loss experienced by the estate. Interest should  be 
added to this sum at a rate of 8% simple  net per annum* from the date of Mrs Ws 
death up to the date of this final decision to recognise that the estate didnt have the 
use of these funds  during this time.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SLCM deducts  income  tax from the
interest it should tell Mrs Ws estate how much has been taken off. SLCM  should give the 
estate a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate .
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and request  Standard Life Client  Management Limited to pay 
compensation to Mrs Ws estate as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of Mrs Ws estate to accept or reject my decision before 21 August  2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1613111