K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Mr S was mis-sold an Advantage Private account in 
March 2010 by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). They  say that Mr S thought that 
he had to have  this account  in order to obtain a preferential  rate on a mortgage application. 
They also say that he thought that he had to keep  this account to keep this preferential rate. 
This account was later migrated to a Black  account  in January 2012. 
This account was downgrade to a fee free account in November 2014  at the same time as a 
separate account held jointly by Mr and Mrs S was upgraded to a Black account.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  already.  She did not think that the account  
had been mis-sold or that NatWest mis-led  Mr S.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with this and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
I should clarify that this decision will only be looking at the issues  that relate to the 
Advantage account that was held in Mr Ss sole name. I will not be looking at the migration 
to the Black  account  in 2012  as this was essentially a rebranding of the Private  account  
rather than a sale.
In addition to this, the sale of the separate Black  joint account which took place in November 
2014 will not be included  in this decision. I say this as we have explained prior to this 
decision that if Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the sale of that account, they would need to 
direct this in the first instance to NatWest to allow it to investigate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about this complaint.
From what  I can see that the main  issue for Mr and Mrs S is not that Mr S was mis-sold the 
account but more that he says he was told that he had to take out and keep the account in 
order to continue to receive a preferential rate on a mortgage. And it was not pointed out to 
them after the sale that they could  downgrade and keep the preferential  rate. But I will briefly  
address the sale itself and then I will consider  whether  Mr S was mis-informed  by NatWest.
Mr S has explained that he was told he needed  to take out the account in order  to get a 
preferential rate on a mortgage that he was taking out at the time.  I can see that as a result 
of taking out this account he was indeed able to obtain a rate that would only be accessible if 
at the time of the sale he held the Advantage Private account. So, I think that what he was 
told during the sale was correct and therefore I dont think  NatWest did anything wrong in 
relation to this. It was Mr Ss choice whether to accept that deal or not.
As I have said Mr and Mrs Ss main  issue  with the Advantage Private account  seems to be 
that they say that Mr S was told at the time of the sale that Mr S had to keep the account in 
order to retain the preferential mortgage rate and he was never told that he could downgrade 
Ref: DRN18391842his account and keep the rate. I have carefully  considered this but I dont think  its likely  that 
NatWest specifically told him this. Let me explain why
I have looked  at the mortgage offer and the documentation that would have been issued 
during and after the sale and at no point does it say that keeping  the Advantage Private 
account is a condition of the preferential mortgage rate. In fact the mortgage offer specifically 
states that You are not required to take any other  financial  product  from us as a requirement 
of this Offer  of Loan. So, I find it unlikely that a member of staff would specifically state that 
Mr S had to keep the account when nothing  in the documentation issued said that this was a 
requirement. I accept that Mr S may have  assumed  that he had to keep the account to keep 
the preferential  rate but I have not seen anything that persuades me that it was NatWest that 
led him to believe  this in the first instance.
I also dont think that NatWest should  reasonably have been expected to proactively 
highlight to Mr S that he could downgrade the account and keep  the rate. NatWests 
intention was to provide  people who took out the Advantage  Private account with a number 
of benefits. So I would  not reasonably expect the staff proactively to point out ways  in which 
an individual customer could use the benefits without having the account. I would expect 
though that if NatWest  staff were asked directly  about what  would happen to the preferential  
rate if Mr and Mrs S cancelled  their account they would  be given the correct information. But 
I cant see that Mr and Mrs S ever did this.
So while I understand how frustrating this will be to Mr and Mrs S as they clearly feel 
strongly about this matter  I cannot say that NatWest did anything wrong in relation to this. 
Therefore I cannot reasonably ask NatWest  to refund their account  fees
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 October  2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1839184