K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr T says that BoS didnt  make it clear that the policy was optional   he thought if he didnt 
take the PPI that he wouldnt be able to get the credit card.  He also says that this was his 
first credit card in this country. I cant know what was said at the time,  and Mr T hasnt said 
much about  this either. So I have to base my decision on the information  I do have. 
BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ts credit card application  on this I can see that the PPI is 
presented as optional and has been selected.  Nowhere on the application does it suggest 
that a successful application would  be dependent on taking the policy.  And while I appreciate  
that this was Mr Ts first credit card application in this country, he chose to apply and enter 
into a financial agreement  and give important information to BoS. So I think BoS made  it 
clear that Mr T didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, 
from the information hes provided, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
Ref: DRN15317512ombudsman
Ref: DRN1531751