K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr G applied for a credit  card in 1998. He was sold the PPI at the same  in connection with 
this card during  a postal application.
The PPI cost 70p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance  each month  for up to 12 months if Mr G was off work  sick or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate  that Mr G will be 
disappointed by this outcome but it is of course up to him whether he wishes  to accept or 
reject my decision. I will now explain  why Ive reached this outcome.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr G was eligible for the policy.  Based on what  I understand 
of Mr Gs age, employment and circumstances at the time of the sale Im satisfied he was 
eligible.
Tesco had to make  it clear to Mr G that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to his account. Mr G says he thought the PPI was compulsory.
Ive thought about what Mr G and Tesco and have told us and looked  to the documents from 
the time of the sale to help me decide  what  is more  likely to have happened during the sale.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the credit application Mr G completed at the time of the 
sale. This had a separate section headed extra optional services. Within  this section was 
an option to take PPI. Mr G would  have had to sign specifically and separately for PPI before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  I can see that Mr G signed the section for PPI. There is 
no suggestion in this application form that taking PPI would mean  Mr G would be approved 
for credit or that it was compulsory. And given that this was a postal sale, its highly  unlikely 
that Mr G would have  been told anything different.
So I think Tesco made it clear to Mr G that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
out knowing he didnt  have to. 
As this was a postal  sale with no apparent involvement from a representative, I dont  think 
Tesco recommended  the PPI to Mr G. This means Tesco didnt have  to check  the PPI was 
Ref: DRN14670802right for him. So, for example, they didnt need  to take into account any of the other means  
by which  Mr G could have  met his repayments if he wasnt working  such  as his employee  
benefits and savings. 
But they still had to give Mr G clear enough information so that he could decide for himself if 
he should take PPI. I dont think  Tesco  gave  Mr G all of the information as they should have 
 in particular  about the costs, benefits  and main exclusions. So I have to consider whether  
Mr G would have decided  against taking PPI out if he had been  given better  information.  
I dont think better information  would have put Mr G off taking PPI. This is because:
-At the very least even from the application form Mr G would have  known that PPI 
was designed  to cover repayments if Mr G was off work  sick or lost his job. And the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to any other benefits Mr G would have been 
entitled to at the time of the sale. It would have paid out for longer than Mr Gs full 
sick pay entitlement.
-Mr G didnt appear to have been affected  by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy. I appreciate that Mr G has mentioned a medical condition he was suffering 
from at the time of the sale.  I dont underestimate  the impact  this condition must  have  
had on Mr G. But its unlikely to have  resulted  in Mr G needing to take extended  
periods of time off work. Mr G has also mentioned  various  other medical tests he was 
undergoing at the time but I havent  seen any evidence which shows  that these led to 
any other diagnosis  other  than what Mr G has already provided us with. This means 
Mr G wouldnt  have been unduly restricted from making a successful claim under the 
policy if Mr G was unfortunately later diagnosed with any of these conditions.
-The PPI was relatively competitively priced and I cant see that it was unaffordable to 
Mr G at the time of the sale.
-Mr G could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
So based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I dont think Tesco mis-sold Mr G this PPI policy. Which 
means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Tesco didnt  tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I understand that Mr G was the subject of an IVA and that his insolvency practitioner has 
indicated that he retains  an interest  in any redress due to Mr G. It is for Mr G to liaise  with his 
insolvency practitioner with respect  to the redress paid to him for this complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN14670803The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1467080