K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Sporting Index Limited wouldnt allow him to place spread bets in the 
size he wanted.
background
Mr G opened a spread  betting account  with Sporting Index. He placed  a number of bets on 
various sporting  events.  A few days later he tried to place more  bets and was told he could  
only do so for £1 a point.  He wanted to place  bigger  bets than that and complained.
Sporting Index  said it thought hed been  carrying out arbitrage  by exploiting  price 
differences between  Sporting Index and other providers or bookmakers. It said it had 
reduced the size of trade he could place  as a result, in line with the terms of his account.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt think  Sporting  Index  had enough 
evidence to say Mr G had been exploiting an arbitrage opportunity. He thought it should pay 
£100 to Mr G to say sorry. But he noted  Sporting  Index was entitled to accept or reject  bets, 
and to reduce  trading size, under its terms. So he didnt think  it needed to allow Mr G to 
place larger  bets again in future.
Mr G didnt agree, and said the stress  and inconvenience Sporting Index had caused him 
warranted a much larger payment of £1000. The investigator didnt change  his mind, and so 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I agree  that Sporting Index was hasty in saying it thought Mr G had exploited  arbitrage 
opportunities, and by using phrasing  like there is a suspicion  that arbs are being placed 
gave Mr G the impression  it thought  he had done  something wrong  or was in some  way 
cheating.
While Sporting Index  had identified Mr G had placed  bets on events where arbitrage 
opportunities may have been  available I cant see that it had any real reason to think  Mr G 
had exploited any of these opportunities. And I also note the terms of Mr Gs account dont 
say that this kind of trading strategy is prohibited, anyway.
Mr G has said he found these accusations  very upsetting, and Im satisfied hed have been 
troubled by the way his trading was described. But I dont think the amount  Mr G wants  
would be fair compensation for that. Ive thought carefully about account  the scale of 
Sporting Indexs  mistake and its impact  on Mr G, as well as the amount  our service generally 
awards in situations  like these. I think the compensation  of £100 our investigator 
recommended is fair in light of the upset  Sporting Index caused Mr G.
I also dont think it would  be fair to require Sporting Index to allow Mr G to place larger  bets 
again. Its terms say it has discretion to refuse  any bets or restrict the size of bets a client 
wants to place. I think thats fair. Sporting  Index is taking a risk when it accepts a bet  and I 
Ref: DRN15090602think its reasonable for it to exercise  its judgement  about what  risk it is willing  to take on and 
therefore what bets its willing to accept.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint and direct Sporting Index Limited to pay 
Mr G £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1509060