K820x#14complaint
Mr C, as director of T (a Limited company), complains that Towergate Underwriting Group 
Limited mis-sold T an Office Combined insurance policy.
background
The period  in question for this complaint starts in October 2012  and concerns  the policy 
renewal each year thereafter  until October  2017. Policy documentation was provided in 
September 2012 and renewal documentation contained a section headed Your insurance 
requirements and our recommendation. It clearly stated that Towergate  was recommending 
an Office Combined Insurance policy as the combination of cover, terms and conditions met 
the insurance requirements as set out in the demands and needs. And the documents set 
out the significant terms relating to the relevant covers under the policy as well as security 
requirements.
Mr Cs raised  several concerns about  the validity of the policy  including,  but not limited  to;
Very onerous and hard to read and understand terms
Exclusions are unbelievably restrictive to avoid liability
Towergates terms of business complicate issues
One of our investigators  explained her view that while there were some  onerous terms in the 
policy, they were made clear. In addition, she said Mr C, on behalf of T, was aware of the 
terms and bought the policy anyway.  So, she didnt think Towergate had acted unfairly or 
mis-sold the policy.
Mr C didnt think the investigator had fully investigated the complaint. He said the policy was 
not valid  or fit for purpose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Mr C has set out many  individual  
concerns in the policy, I dont intend to specifically address each one. The complaint is about 
the unsuitability  and mis-sale of the policy and I can address these without going into the 
details of the policy.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Mr C first bought the policy in 2001 from a different insurance broker to Towergate,  but 
Towergate took over the brokering in 2010. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues has already decided on the period of the complaint that 
we can look at and thats from the policy renewal in 2012.
Mr C has said hes raised issues over the suitability and usefulness  of the policy  for many  
years, from when it was initially  brokered  before 2010 and while  the policy has been with 
Towergate. Ive seen a letter to that effect from Mr C to Towergate. 
Ref: DRN19453112The issue  with the content of the policy though is the responsibility  of the insurer and not 
Towergate. It is the insurance company  that decides  what  risks it will cover  and what 
conditions need  to be met by a policyholder. And the insurer is also responsible  for the 
language it uses  in the policy terms. 
Relevant industry rules  require Towergate  to ensure that T is eligible  to claim benefits under 
a policy  and provide sufficient  information so that T can make  an informed choice about 
whether to buy a particular policy.  The policy covers  several risks that a commercial entity, 
like T, might be exposed  to and the schedule clearly shows what  risks were selected by T. 
During the period in question Towergate  advised Mr C that there may be a gap in cover  in so 
far as professional liability and gave him details should he wish to add this to the policy.  
Mr Cs general  point  is about the policy  being  hard to read and understand. Although the 
policy document is around 100 pages,  Im not persuaded the length of a document itself 
means its hard to read and understand. The policy has headings and sub headings 
throughout with relatively short and numbered or lettered paragraphs. Generally, the 
language is accessible  and with little industry  jargon. Its also worthy of note that the contract 
is a commercial one and T, as a commercial entity, has apparently  contracted its 
professional services with international and FTSE 100 firms. Indeed,  T is able to bring 
together teams of professionals in delivering  services to its clients  (source:  Ts website). And 
for these  reasons,  including  the fact that T seemingly enters into contracts with a variety of 
commercial clients,  including  high profile ones, Im not persuaded that the policy  is hard to 
read or understand.
Several issues that Mr C has raised relate to conditions within the policy  or assumptions  the 
contract is based on. These are clearly set out and conditions and / or assumptions are not 
unusual within insurance policies be they commercial or consumer related. The content  of 
the policy though is the insurers responsibility  and not Towergates. According  to Mr C he 
had consistently  raised  issues  with the policys suitability and usefulness,  yet he continued to 
pay to renew the policy each year.  T was clearly able to benefit by being able to claim under 
the policy for a variety  of risks. The fact that there are exclusions and conditions doesnt  alter 
that. Conditions  can be complied with and exclusions are common  to all policies.
Mr C has said that Towergate  told him the insurer would  waive  exclusions and conditions in 
the event of a claim. Theres little detail about  this other than what Mr C has told us and what 
Ive seen in correspondence from him to Towergate. Without  being  privy to any of the 
conversations, I can see circumstances where a breach of a policy condition might  be 
waived in the circumstances of a claim.  For example, non-compliance with a condition would 
probably be waived  where  the breach is unrelated  to the loss being  claimed.
Taking everything into account  Im not satisfied that Towergate mis-sold the policy.  Even  if I 
was though, Id need  to consider what difference, if anything, it would have  made to T.
The challenge here for T is that Mr C renewed  the policy numerous times even though he 
says that hed consistently  raised issues about its suitability  and usefulness.  The policy  
covered several  risks including general  contents,  computers, business  interruption, money, 
employers and public liability, personal  injury and legal  defence  costs.  These  are all matters 
that Mr Cs company could realise a benefit.  And the fact that he continued  to renew the 
policy year after year not believing it was suitable  or useful  means  Im satisfied that even if it 
was mis-sold (which Im not satisfied it was) Mr C wouldnt have done anything  different.
Ref: DRN19453113my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Towergate  Underwriting Group  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
T to accept or reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1945311