K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Zenith Insurance plcs approved repairer damaged her car radio 
during repairs. Miss W made  a claim under her car insurance policy.
For the purpose of my decision,  all references to Zenith the insurer  includes its agents. 
background
Miss W made  a claim to Zenith for damage to a rear tailgate light on her car. Zenith arranged 
for her car to be repaired by one of its approved  repairers. 
Miss W said that her car radio was working when her car was taken to the approved  
repairer. But when  it was returned, it wasnt. So she told Zenith. 
Zenith didnt agree that the damage  to the car radio  has been caused by the approved 
repairer. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
there wasnt enough evidence to show the approved repairer  had damaged the car radio.  So 
he thought Zenith had dealt with Miss Ws complaint reasonably.  
Miss W didnt agree.  So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Miss W reported  damage to the fascia of the radio  and said that on return the radio wasnt  
working. She explained that she had advertised  her car for sale listing  its existing faults 
before she claimed  for the rear tailgate. Miss W said this is her proof  along with her 
testimony  that the radio was working  before her car was taken to the approved repairer. 
She said she didnt  list the radio as not working. Miss W is unhappy because  shes  trying to 
sell the car and without  a working radio  its worth a lot less. She wants Zenith to cover  the 
costs to repair the radio.
Zenith spoke to the approved repairer and a diagnostic report was carried out by a 
dealership garage. It found  that the radio  issue was due to an internal fault. 
The approved repairer told Zenith that because  the damage it repaired was to the rear of the 
car, it had no cause to touch the radio. Zenith  also asked an independent  engineer to review  
Miss Ws complaint. The engineer said he couldnt comment as to whether the fault was a 
result of the repairs  but he said I can only comment  that the vehicle had a repair to the 
quarter panel  that required using a pin puller,  I am unsure if the battery and vehicle 
electronics were shut down prior to repair.
Miss W believes the damage to her car would  have required the approved  repairer to 
disconnect the vehicles electrics as it included  repairing a light fitting. She believes the 
approved repairer  could  have therefore  caused  damage to the radio. 
Ref: DRN10835372I understand how strongly Miss W feels about  her complaint. She feels that if there  is an 
element of doubt, on the balance of probabilities,  she as the customer should  not be 
expected to carry full liability for the repairs. 
But I think Zenith properly  investigated  her complaint. And from the information  it received 
from the approved  repairer and the engineer   along with Miss Ws testimony   I cant safely  
conclude that the approved repairer most  likely caused damage to the radio. 
So I think Zenith dealt  with Miss Ws complaint in a reasonable way. I realise  Miss W will be 
disappointed with my decision. But this means  I dont think Zenith  should  pay for the costs  to 
repair Miss Ws car radio.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1083537