K821x#15complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  that Santander  UK Plc restricted his account when he tried to make  a 
payment from it. 
background
Mr T says he transferred some  money  online to his wifes business  account. But the next 
day his wife hadnt received the money and she couldnt pay some  of her business  
expenses. When  he phoned Santander he was told his account had been put on hold by its 
fraud team. As instructed he went into a branch to get this removed. Hes unhappy that 
Santander didnt  tell him his account had been put on hold. He thinks  it shouldve done  more 
than try to ring him, unsuccessfully, on his landline number as it had his email and mobile 
number which was used  to send him OTP codes. . 
Mr T wants compensating for the time he spent dealing with this issue on the phone  and for 
having to go into a branch. His wife also suffered stress and embarrassment personally  and 
damage to her businesses reputation. He also thinks Santander should change  the method 
it uses to contact people  when the fraud team puts an account  on hold.
Santander said it took fraud issues seriously and here it had no alternative to restrict Mr Ts 
account as its attention  was drawn  to a potentially fraudulent activity. It was sorry for the 
inconvenience Mr T had been caused but it had his best interests at heart. It tried to contact 
him eight  times on his preferred  landline number.
Our investigator felt his complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account say Santander is entitled to block or 
suspend any payment if it deems  there  is any suspected fraudulent  activity. That was 
the case here and it was right to verify the payment.
Santander had Mr Ts up to date mobile  number and email  address. Santander says 
its automated system  only contacts  customers on the preferred contact provided and 
this system is used to protect customers. But Mr T wouldnt know this and he had 
given it all his contact  details. He wouldnt be expected to know which  system would 
use which contact detail. In light of this Santander should pay Mr T £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has been  caused. He has since 
updated his contact preferences to ensure this problem will not arise again.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Santander  has the right to put a hold a payment if it suspects there  
maybe fraudulent  activity.  If it does so it says its system will try to contact the customer  on 
their preferred contact  method. Here  that was Mr Ts landline  number although  Santander 
also had details of his email and mobile number.
Ref: DRN11845172But I dont think Mr T was made aware, or couldve reasonably known, that in this situation  
only his landline  number  would be used. He says he received OTP codes on his mobile  
number but Santander says the OTP system is different to the automated  one in question 
here which only contacts  customers on the preferred number they have requested.
Overall I think  it would be reasonable for Mr T to assume Santander might try other  methods  
of contacting particularly on his mobile  number.
Santander says it couldnt call Mr T on the evening he made the payment as it was too late 
to do so. And the next day it tried to call him on the landline  number at least  eight occasions  
at various times but without success.  That was fair. But as it couldnt contact him I think  it 
wouldve also been fair and reasonable for it to try his mobile  number too. 
Even so Santander  was entitled to ask Mr T to go into a branch to verify information before 
the block is lifted if it considers this is necessary.  I think thats fair and reasonable. Its 
important that businesses like Santander have processes and procedures in place to try and 
identify payments that arent genuine. Its in the nature  of processes like these that genuine  
customers may be inconvenienced by them, but thats not to say that Santander shouldnt  
have them in place  or that it shouldnt have followed them as it did here.
I recognise Mr Ts frustration. But its up to Santander to decide how it operates  its security  
procedures and what security information  it requires. 
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures as Mr T would  like. General issues  about how the banking  industry  
works are a matter for the Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Having to deal with Santanders  security  procedures, including having  this payment held and 
having to go into the branch, no doubt engaged  Mr T for a time.   Had  Santander explained 
how its systems  worked better or contacted Mr T by another recorded contact method, for 
example on his mobile number, I have no doubt matters  wouldve been resolved more 
quickly than they were. This clearly caused  Mr T some additional distress and 
inconvenience. I think a payment of £100 compensation for that is fair and reasonable.
Mr T says the intended recipient of the payments, his wife for her business, has suffered 
embarrassment at not being able to meet some business payments and this has also 
damaged the reputation of her business. But neither she nor her business is a customer  of 
Santander or an eligible complainant. So, I cannot award her or her business  any 
compensation for what happened or the resulting consequences.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Santander UK Plc should pay Mr T £100  
compensation.
Santander must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mr T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN11845173If Santander considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1184517