K822xcomplaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service provided to her by Lifesure Group Limited in respect of the 
renewal of her home insurance.
background 
Mrs Rs home insurance was arranged by Lifesure.  It was a policy  covering a high value of 
jewellery. The insurer had identified that the value of jewellery kept in Mrs Rs safe exceeded 
the value covered in the safe. It agreed renewal  in March 2018  without requiring a new safe 
to be installed as the property was then on the market. However the sale was postponed and 
in October 2018  the insurer advised that it wouldnt be offering renewal terms unless Mrs R 
had a new safe installed.
Unfortunately because of the layout of the home  and the underfloor  heating Mrs R wasnt 
able to get the appropriate safe installed.  Lifesure advised her on 5 March 2019  of the 
impending renewal on 31 March. On Mrs Rs instructions it asked the insurer whether the 
fitting of a safe in a cottage in the grounds  would be acceptable. The insurer advised that it 
wasnt. Mrs R then indicated that she would remove £100,000 of her jewellery to a bank 
vault. 
Lifesure then advised that, with various new conditions, the quote from her insurers  would be 
around double  the previous years premium.  It advised Mrs R on 22 March 2019  that the 
best quote it could obtain was for around that price. It further advised her that it had 
attempted to get quotes from a number of other insurers but hadnt  been able to get a quote.  
It suggested that she proceed with the revised renewal terms and cancel if she was able to 
find a policy  elsewhere.  There was no cancellation charge if cancelled within 14 days  and 
£100 if cancelled  after that.
Mrs R let the policy lapse  and was uninsured for three months. She then found a new policy 
with another provider on similar terms to her old policy without the extra safe requirement. 
She was unhappy  that Lifesure put her in that position because  she felt it had failed to look 
for other quotes  in time.
On referral to this service  our investigator  noted  that Lifesure was an independent 
intermediary so had no control over what terms the insurer  required when offering a policy.  
But she thought  that Lifesure could have advised  her earlier  of renewal terms both with her 
old insurer and of any terms it had been able to find in the market. She established that 
Mrs R being uninsured for three  months had had no impact on her new premiums. She 
proposed that Lifesure pay Mrs R £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Lifesure agreed  to the proposed compensation. Mrs R didnt  agree  and said it didnt take 
account of the stress this imposed on her. She had been suffering ill health and it was 
difficult for her to source  her own insurance.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16938852As Ive said,  Lifesure  was an independent  intermediary. Whilst appreciating that Mrs R found 
her old insurers terms to be unreasonable,  Lifesure  had no control over that. I do note that 
Mrs R had gone to some effort to find a safe that complied  with the insurers requirements.
However when it came  to renewal, Mrs Rs old insurers had made it clear by 5 March 2019 
that it wasnt prepared  to offer terms for renewal without the necessary safe. It had advised 
to that effect the previous  October. I note that when Lifesure contacted Mrs R on that date it 
said it would  look for other quotes. I understand that in the period from then up until a few 
days before  renewal Lifesure dd try to negotiate terms with the old insurer  like putting  the 
safe in the cottage (which wasnt acceptable) and then by Mrs R moving a large amount of 
her jewellery  to bank.  
Those negotiations  took time to sort out and given that the renewal date was coming up 
quickly I do think that Lifesure could  have acted earlier to source other  quotes.  And its clear  
from its files that later it did attempt to do so. And it managed  to find two quotes, one from 
the old insurer, but both were  uncompetitive  and significantly higher than before.
As the quotes  werent relayed to Mrs R until a week before  renewal this didnt give her time 
to find other  quotes.  So she was uninsured for a while, although she could have taken up the 
option of proceeding with the new quote  from her old insurer.  I dont find Lifesure to be at 
fault in not being  able to obtain  a competitive quote   Mrs Rs circumstances were  unusual. 
And whilst Mrs R was able to find satisfactory  insurance cover this was presumably from an 
insurer not on Lifesures  panel. This was an advised  sale meaning that Lifesure had to 
ensure that any policy was suitable  for Mrs Rs needs. It would  be usual to check the 
insurers it works with rather than search the whole of the market.
I do think the compensation  offered,  of £100,  is fair and reasonable, and is in line with 
awards we have made in similar cases.  Whilst Lifesure could have  advised  Mrs R sooner 
about the lack of reasonable  quotes, it was a matter for her that she chose not to accept the 
offers made to her by Lifesure and instead  chose to source  cover  herself which  took her 
three months.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lifesure Group  Limited to pay to Mrs R £100  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1693885