K820x#14complaint
Mr S, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  about  the suitability 
of investment advice  given to him by Santander UK Plc.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr S complaint in July 2019, a copy  of which is attached  
and forms part of this final decision. In the provisional decision I explained why I felt the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
In brief,  I noted  that consideration of the suitability was a fairly balanced matter, as the 
recommended portfolio  had been 75% reliant  upon  equities. But in all the circumstances  I 
couldnt see anything  that led me to think that starting the portfolio was too great a jump for 
Mr S to take. I thought he appeared to have  had the capacity for an increased  level of risk. 
And I felt the understanding  of investments brought about by his previous experience with a 
number of different  products and investment approaches over a sustained period  wouldve 
put him in a good position to appreciate how the portfolio would  work.  
There also seemed to be a suggestion that Mr S was motivated to simplify matters  and make 
the administration of his investments more straightforward, which  I also thought  seemed  
reasonable given his investment history.  
Santander confirmed  that it agreed  with my decision. Mr S CMC didnt respond.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given that neither party has had anything 
further to add, I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  the 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14081002COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr S, represented by a claims  management company  (CMC), complains about the suitability  of 
investment advice given to him by Santander UK Plc.
background
Mr S was provided with a series of investment recommendations by Santander, on up to 10 occasions  
between 1993 and 2005. He invested around £69,000  over the whole period, into a variety of 
managed funds, unit trusts and guaranteed products.  
By 2009 these  investments were worth around £78,000. At this point Mr S encashed  them all and was 
advised by Santander to place the total proceeds into a Premier Investment Portfolio, using the 
Preserved Real Wealth basis of asset allocation. This was split approximately  75% in equities and 
25% in sterling bonds. The portfolio was divided  between an OEIC and ISA, with the OEIC feeding 
the annual ISA allowance over subsequent years. Mr S has maintained the portfolio  to date. 
In late 2017 the CMC made a complaint  about all the advice. Santander  didnt uphold the complaint;  
in short, it felt that each of the recommendations had been broadly suitable for 
Mr S needs and circumstances at the time it was given. 
The CMC referred the complaint to this service. Because much of the advice  had been provided 
upwards of 25 years  ago Santander was of the view that some aspects  of the complaint fell outside 
our jurisdiction. But it was eventually agreed that only one part of the complaint, concerning the initial 
1993 advice, was out of jurisdiction because of it being referred too late (Mr S had made a loss on 
that particular recommendation, which it was agreed ought reasonably  to have given  him cause for 
complaint when it was surrendered with the other investments  in 2009).
Our adjudicator then looked at all the other advice. In brief, he was satisfied that the 
recommendations made between 1996  and 2005  were suitable  for Mr S. They had mainly involved 
fairly cautious investments,  some  of which had featured guarantees  to the capital. 
But the adjudicator didnt think  that the 2009 advice  in respect of the portfolio  was suitable. He felt that 
is was likely  that Santanders adviser  had encouraged Mr S to surrender  his existing investments. And 
that the portfolio product into which the proceeds were then placed, with its heavy reliance upon 
equities, carried too much risk and that too much of 
Mr S money was committed to it. 
Santander didnt agree. It explained that its advisers werent authorised to recommended  
surrendering investments so the decision to do so had been solely  Mr S. It highlighted a document  he 
had signed that confirmed that he understood  the potential  consequences and that it was his decision.  
Santander also pointed  out that the money invested in the portfolio  had already all been  invested. So 
Mr S hadnt been increasing the proportion of his capital that was tied up. It noted  that he also had a 
reasonable emergency fund of over £20,000 readily accessible. 
In respect of suitability, Santander felt that Mr S had been sufficiently experienced by the point of the 
2009 advice to accept  the risk of the new portfolio and his circumstances supported this. It highlighted 
that hed never made any withdrawals from the initial  series of investments, nor since the new 
portfolio started in 2009. Which suggested the arrangement was affordable and something that Mr S 
most likely understood.  
As no resolution could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
Ref: DRN14081003my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
There seems  to be broad  agreement  that the advice Mr S received from Santander up until 2009  was 
suitable for him. Over the period in question he was single, with no dependents and living with his 
parents. He was working and in a position to make regular investments, all of which  he left in place 
until the point of reinvestment in 2009. 
So, the crux of the matter now appears to be whether it was suitable to advise Mr S to adopt a new 
approach in 2009, one that clearly did increase the risk profile of his overall investment strategy,  by 
removing all guarantees and increasing  his reliance  upon equities  both UK and international. 
I accept that its a fairly balanced matter   the Preserved  Real Wealth portfolio was, as noted, 75% 
reliant upon  equities. But in all the circumstances  I cant  see anything  glaringly obvious  that leads me 
to think  that starting  the portfolio was too great a jump  for Mr S to take.  
He appears to have had the capacity for an increased level of risk in 2009. And I think the 
understanding of investments brought about by his experience with a number of different products 
and approaches over a sustained period wouldve put him in a good position to appreciate how the 
portfolio would work. There also seems to be a suggestion that one motivation was to simplify  matters 
and make the administration of his investments more straightforward, which also seems reasonable  
given his investment history.  
Im also conscious that Mr S portfolio appears to have performed relatively well over the past decade. 
The adjudicators redress suggested that Mr S be compensated  by way of a comparison  with our 
standard cautious  benchmark  a 50/50  combination  of the performance of a varied asset index and 
fixed rate bonds. 
With the value of Mr S portfolio now standing at over £230,000 I would  question if theres even been 
a loss incurred by way of such  a comparison. 
But, in any event, regardless  of what loss may or may not have been made  using that benchmark, in 
all the circumstances and on balance, Im currently satisfied that Santanders  recommendation  to Mr 
S was broadly suitable.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded not 
to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN1408100