K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that the balance  of their secured loan held with Prestige 
Finance Limited  is higher than they believe it should be. Although  the account had been in 
arrears in the past (when the loan was owned by a different business), the arrears were 
cleared. So Mr and Mrs P cant understand why their loan balance appears  to be so high.
background
On 22 June 2007 Mr and Mrs P took out a secured  loan with a business I will call M. They  
borrowed a total of £30,975  over a 15-year term at a fixed  interest rate of 11.06% per 
annum. The loan is not regulated.
Ownership of the loan has changed  hands  several  times since 2007. On 4 December 2015 
the loan was transferred to Prestige.
The complaint arose  after Mr and Mrs P received  their annual statement. Mr P, whos  dealt 
with the complaint throughout, contacted  Prestige  because he thought  the statement was 
incorrect. It said there were 43 months  remaining  on the term. 
Mr P said that his 2016 statement said the remaining term was 66 months and the 2017  
statement said 54 months. Because  Mr P had made a further 12 payments, he thought  the 
remaining term should be 42 months, not 43.
Prestige explained  that it was the 2016 and 2017 statements that were incorrect.  The first 
payment on the loan was due in July 2007,  so the final payment would be due in June 2022. 
Prestige offered compensation of £50 for this.
Mr P was also unhappy about  the account  balance. He thought  it was incorrect.  Mr P 
acknowledged thered been  arrears in the past, but these had been  cleared before Prestige 
took over the loan.  Prestige looked at the account history  from previous lenders, but it was 
satisfied there hadnt been an error  in the amount that was due.
Dissatisfied with Prestiges response, Mr and Mrs P brought  their complaint to us. After 
looking at the account history, our investigator  didnt think Prestige had done anything 
wrong.
The investigator noted the system error which had led to the errors in the 2016  and 2017 
annual statements. She thought the compensation of £50 offered for this was fair and 
reasonable. But the investigator didnt think the account balance was incorrect. This is 
because, although the majority of the arrears  had been paid off by 2015, interest  was still 
accruing on them.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept the investigators findings. They provided documents  theyd  been  
sent by the businesses which previously  owned the loan which, Mr P says, proves that there  
were no arrears. Prestige looked  at these documents and explained that, although the 
arrears had been cleared, interest  had continued to accrue on these  and that the account 
had never  been  brought fully up-to-date.
Mr and Mrs P asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Ref: DRN10765052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mr and Mrs P and by Prestige.
I will begin by explaining  that I can only consider whats happened on this account after 
Prestige took it over on 4 December 2015. Prestige is in our compulsory  jurisdiction, and so 
we are able to look at complaints about secured  loans owned by Prestige, even if they are 
unregulated. But this only covers events after Prestige took over the loan, and not to 
anything that happened before when the loan was with previous businesses.
I must also explain  that the Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt audit accounts. What  I 
have done is to review  the information provided, not to carry out my own reworking of the 
account.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs P are adamant they paid off the arrears  before 
Prestige took over the loan. So they cant understand why the balance  is still much higher 
than they anticipated.
However, it was only the arrears that were  cleared.  Arrears means the backlog  of monthly 
payments that hasnt  been made  so when the arrears were  cleared, that doesnt mean  the 
loan balance  itself has been paid off. It just means that Mr and Mrs P had caught up with the 
monthly payments  that had to have  been made.
But when a monthly payment is missed, it doesnt just put the loan into arrears.  Because  the 
monthly payment  is made up of both interest and an amount to reduce the capital,  failure to 
pay means the overall loan balance wont reduce as it should. As a result,  the balance is 
higher than it ought to be the following month  meaning more  interest  is charged,  the 
balance goes up again, and then more  interest is charged the following month.
That means that over time, where a loan has been in arrears because payments arent being 
made, the balance can go up, even after the arrears  have been paid off. And theres less 
time left to reduce it before the scheduled  end of the loan term. So even where the borrower 
has paid off the arrears  and starts  making  the original contractual monthly  payments again,  
those payments are no longer enough  to pay the loan off by the end of the term. Thats  
because clearing the arrears isnt enough  by itself to pay off the additional interest.
Im satisfied that this is whats  happened  in this case. Having reviewed the account history 
both from before the time Prestige  took over the loan and since, Im satisfied that there 
hasnt been an error  made by Prestige in its calculation  of the loan balance since  it took over 
the loan on 4 December 2015.
Mr and Mrs P have  provided a letter from a previous  owner of the loan explaining  that the 
way interest was charged on the loan was changing. It appears the account was adjusted in 
accordance with what that business  had said it would do. As this was before  Prestige  took 
over the loan, I cant comment on it any further  as it doesnt relate to Prestiges 
administration of the account.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the only error made  by Prestige was in relation to the 2016 
and 2017 annual statements, which were inaccurate. Prestige has offered compensation of 
Ref: DRN10765053£50 for any trouble and upset caused  by this. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. Im 
satisfied that the loan balance is accurate, for the reasons given above.
I appreciate Mr P feels very strongly about this matter, and I am sorry that this isnt the 
outcome he wanted.  But I assure Mr P that Ive considered the case  and reviewed 
everything in detail. Having done  so Im unable to find Prestige has miscalculated the loan 
balance. 
I note that when he spoke to us in April of this year, Mr P said he was going to take Prestige 
to court  and that he wouldnt pay off the rest of the loan. I would strongly  suggest  Mr P takes 
advice from a solicitor before embarking on any court action and from a debt advisory 
service such as StepChange or Citizens  Advice  if he is considering defaulting on the loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  that the £50 Prestige 
Finance Limited  has already offered for a system error on the 2016 and 2017 annual 
statements is fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the  error.  Because  
Prestige has made  no other  mistake  in its administration  of the account, I am not awarding 
any other redress. I simply  leave it to Mr and Mrs P to decide if they want to accept the £50 
from Prestige Finance Limited  in full and final settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
 
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1076505