K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complains about  the service they received from The Royal  Bank of Scotland  
Plc after fraudsters were able to withdraw money  from their account.
Mr H makes the submissions in this complaint so I will refer to him throughout the decision.
background
Mr H says that on four separate occasions,  a fraudster was able to telephone  RBS, 
impersonating Mr H, to say that he had lost his debit card and needed an authorised 
emergency cash withdrawal.  Each  time this happened,  unbeknown  to him, his debit  card 
was being cancelled.  This meant  Mr H was left in a position where he tried to use his card in 
genuine transactions  but the card was being declined because  it had been cancelled.
Mr H says RBS then made him lodge  a formal  complaint before the money was refunded to 
him  and he spent  a lot of time trying to make  sure this did not happen again.  He  also had 
to spend some time without a card and PIN as these items then took time to arrive.   He said 
he had been sent approximately 12-13 debit cards  over a period of approximately three  
months.
When he complained  to RBS, he was offered  £50 for the poor level of service.  But Mr H was 
not happy with this.  In a summary  of his complaint to this service,  he told us that he wanted 
RBS to establish a system which prevented such fraud occurring again to him or others,  to 
identify the fraudsters in his case and to prosecute them, to acknowledge the reason why he 
had to complain to this service and to pay appropriate compensation for the annoyance he 
had been caused.  Later,  he suggested  an appropriate sum of compensation was in the 
region of £5000.
Our adjudicator thought RBS had not treated Mr H fairly  so she asked  RBS to make an 
offer.  RBS said it would  pay £500 for the inconvenience caused  to Mr H.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to tell Mr H that this service is an informal service  set up to deal with complaints 
expediently.  We dont  have the same  investigatory powers as say, the police and neither do 
we have facilities and benefits of a court  where  live evidence  can be scrutinised and where 
witnesses can be cross  examined,  etc.
Neither does this service  have the power  to order RBS to change  its security procedures or 
to identify and prosecute  fraudsters.  Those really are matters for RBS  and to some  extent, 
the FCA.
What I can look at its whether RBS has done anything wrong here in dealing  with Mr Hs 
complaint  and if it has, what it needs to do to put things right.   In considering  the latter,  I 
need to look at the impact this has had on Mr H and I need  to bear in mind the general levels 
of awards this service  makes with regards impact  on consumers.
Ref: DRN12178502I agree  with Mr Hs comments regarding RBS not preventing this fraudster from making 
numerous attempts  to access Mr Hs account  it was clearly on notice  from when Mr H first 
made contact that his account was susceptible.   However, fraudulent access was allowed 
again and again with RBS not taking heed of its own notices.
And its subsequent  attempts  to make the situation  right were ill conceived  and poorly 
executed. I can understand why Mr H feels as strongly as he does  about  that.
I have taken account of the time Mr H says he has spent in dealing with this issue  and I 
accept that there were  periods  when both he and Mrs H were without card and internet 
access to their account.  But this service  does not award compensation based on units  of 
time spent.  We look at the overall  impact  that the issues  have had on a consumer.
From my reading  of Mr Hs submissions, the impact he complains  about  includes the time he 
has spent, the periods  he did not have direct  access to his accounts,  and the expense  of 
having his computer cleaned in case of malware.  
With that in mind, I think the offer of £500 is a fair and reasonable one and one that this 
service would look to award in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im  afraid I will not be 
asking RBS to increase  on that offer.
I know Mr H will not agree with the level of award  and I note he makes reference to awaiting 
my final decision before he considers any other  action  so, my decision does now bring an 
end to this services determination of Mr Hs complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc must pay Mr H £500  in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1217850