K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Ms A took out the 
store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms A says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms A 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms A says she remembers  taking out the store card but PPI wasnt  mentioned by the sales  
assistant at that time. Our adjudicator considered the evidence  on file and in his opinion  
found that this policy  was sold over the phone, sometime after the store card was taken  out. 
In response to our adjudicators assessment Ms A responded to dispute  that she ever 
agreed to take out the policy over the phone. But Ive not seen any evidence to support what 
Ms A has said. Ive also looked at the other evidence available  to come  to a decision on 
what I think is more likely  to have happened. 
FICL has provided evidence of their internal records to show that the PPI was taken out over 
the phone  in 2002  some years after the store card account had been set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there  is no call recording for me to listen  
to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed  at the time. But as Ms A already had the 
credit in place I think she wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition  
of having the store  card.
FICL have  also provided call scripts which it says wouldve been used for these types of 
sales around that time  and Ive seen  no reason  to doubt this. These  show  that the sales  
person was instructed to present the PPI as optional to Ms A. And without any evidence  to 
persuade me otherwise,  I think  its unlikely FICL wouldve added the PPI to her account 
without her permission.  
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I 
think FICL made it clear  that Ms A didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms A so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms A got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Ref: DRN16465722Its possible the information FICL gave Ms A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Ms As outstanding monthly balance 
for up to twelve months. And even though Ms A was entitled to some  sick pay from her 
employer, this wouldve  only lasted  4 weeks. So Ms A couldve relied on her sick pay for the 
first 4 weeks and the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months once her sick pay had 
ceased. Ms A has also said that she couldve relied on her husband  to support her, and 
while I dont doubt  that he wouldve wanted to support her, his circumstances  may have also 
changed over time. And so I still think the policy wouldve been useful for her and I dont 
think better information wouldve put her off taking out the cover. .
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1646572