K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (when  it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  Mr W told us that he 
completed an application form for a Barclaycard in a Barclays  branch.  The policy was added 
to his card at the same time.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed. 
Mr W mainly says that he was an agency  worker when he took out the PPI so the policy  
wasnt suitable for his needs given his work circumstances. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I think  Barclays made Mr W aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
The application form he completed had Yes and No PPI options. So Mr W wouldve known 
it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. 
And I can see the form is ticked next to Yes on the form Mr W signed. So, I think  its likely 
he decided at the time that PPI would  be useful and he chose to add it to his Barclaycard.  
Barclays says it would've advised Mr W to take out PPI if he filled in the application in one of 
its branches. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give 
important policy information  in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make  sure 
the cover  it recommends  is suitable . 
Looking at the likely policy terms that wouldve applied, I think  it was suitable  for him. 
Mr W was eligible for the policy. Its likely  that the policy wouldve paid more  than his 
minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event  of accident or 
sickness. Mr W told us he had no sick pay from his employer and no other  way of making 
the monthly repayments if he wasnt working.  So I think this couldve been a useful  benefit  at 
a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve also protected Mr Ws credit  card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think  PPI offered Mr W worthwhile benefits  in his 
particular circumstances.   
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ws situation. 
Ref: DRN16480032I've taken carefully into account what Mr W has told us about his work circumstances when 
he applied  for the PPI  but what he says about being an agency worker at the time isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  his complaint. I have to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely.
There was an option on the application  he completed to get his credit card to say if he was in 
a Permanent Temporary or Contract job. Permanent is ticked  on Mr Ws signed 
application and hes also indicated he was a full time employee at the business  where  he 
told us he was doing agency  work. 
As Mr W had the option to select Temporary or Contract if that had applied  to him at the 
time I think its likely  he would've chosen one of those options if hed still been doing  agency 
work when  he filled in the form.
I can see that he also indicated on the form that hed recently changed employment.  
I think its more likely that the information put on the form at the time reflects Mr Ws actual 
work circumstances  when he applied for the PPI  although its completely understandable if 
hes forgotten this now given his long history of agency work up to then. 
I've also thought carefully about  what I know about Mr Ws work record  prior to taking out the 
policy. Someone who didn't have a record of 12 months continuous employment might not 
have been able to claim successfully for unemployment under the policy straightaway.  
It says on Mr Ws credit  card application  that hed just been with his current  employer for 
2 months. But hes also told us that hed been  signed up with multiple  agencies  and he 
tended to work on short contracts and when  one contract ended  he would get another  
contract through an agency. He also said he was fairly lucky  as there was usually another  
contract on offer but there were some periods where  he would find that he was out of work 
for short periods.
Based on all the information I've seen  and been  told, I think Mr W probably wouldnt have 
had a problem  showing he had 12 months continuous employment  short breaks between  
contracts wouldnt have  been a problem  and it looks like he was regularly in work. So I dont 
think he would've had any particular difficulty if hed needed to make a claim under the 
unemployment part of the policy. 
Its possible some of the information  Barclays  gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr W chose to take out the policy  when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now.  The policy seems to 
have been affordable for him  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr W wouldve made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.  So, I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything Barclays  did wrong  
and Im planning to say that theres  nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN16480033Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr W mainly said that agency worker  wasnt an option on the form he filled in for the PPI  
and the options to say his job was temporary  or contract wouldnt  have  exactly matched 
his circumstances  at the time. He said the nature  of the industry he worked  in meant  the 
usual way people  were taken on was through  an agency. Mr W told us that he wasnt  likely 
to be made  redundant  rather,  he faced the risk of being laid off. So as the policy  wouldnt 
have covered this, Barclays shouldve made all this clear to Mr W before  selling  him the 
policy  and if it had done so, then he said its likely  he wouldnt have wanted to pay for it. 
Barclays has confirmed it has no further  information to provide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr W has said  including  the comments  made  in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
If Mr W was an agency  worker at the time,  it seems  unlikely to me (given  the choices 
available) that he wouldve selected the options he did on the application form he completed.  
Mr W filled in the form to indicate that he was a full time employee, working for a private  
company (whose  details  he provided)  in a Permanent job. I think other available options  he 
couldve ticked instead wouldve better reflected his circumstances if hed been working for 
an agency. And he put a note on the form to say hed recently changed  employment.  
So, on balance, I think its more likely that hes made a mistake and he hasnt  correctly  
remembered what his actual circumstances  were when he took out the PPI. Taking all this 
into account, I think its likely that Mr W wouldve been able to claim on the policy just as 
easily as anyone else who was in full time employment.  
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have  been  received that have changed my view, I still 
think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons I explained  in my provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN16480034my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN1648003