K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1991.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. This is because Mr and Mrs P have said they held a joint MPPI policy and that 
Mrs P was not working at that time.  Mr and Mrs P have been consistent  with the information 
they have given, taking into account their circumstances at the time of sale. I think the way 
they have presented the information is believable, and I think it is more  likely than not that 
they have remembered  accurately their situation  at the time.  
This would mean under  the terms of the policy they took out that Mrs P wasnt  eligible  for the 
MPPI when  it was sold to her. 
Nationwide has made some good arguments  about how likely it is it would have set up an 
MPPI policy for someone who was not working.  But they have also said they cant say who 
was covered and have  not been able to provide any documentation that would show  Mrs P 
wasnt on the policy. So on balance, due to the lack of sales  documentation and also on 
what I have concluded  already about  Mr and Mrs Ps testimony, I uphold their complaint and 
Nationwide now need to put things  right.
fair compensation
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out MPPI.  I understand the policy  has been cancelled. So Nationwide  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful  claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN18813562my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs P compensation in accordance  with 
the calculation  of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1881356