K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was taken out on a 
credit card that started  in 1998.  Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds credit card started in 1998.  The PPI was probably added  at that time. It was on the 
account by 2000  which is the earliest time for which there are statements. 
Lloyds hasnt any paperwork  or records to show exactly when the PPI started or how it was 
sold. It also no longer has a copy of Mr Ds credit agreement or credit card application  form 
to show exactly how the credit card was taken out. But I dont find this surprising,  given how 
long ago all this was. 
Mr D thinks he wasnt asked whether he wanted the PPI. Hes said he either applied for the 
credit card by filling in forms he sent in or by going  into a branch. From what  hes said,  Mr D 
thinks he shopped around for the best interest  rate deal, looked at other cards, and probably 
applied by post. But what we know of Lloyds  postal application process makes me think that 
if Mr D applied for his card by post its likely his application wouldve asked if he wanted the 
PPI  and PPI wouldve only been added  if hed indicated  on his application that he wanted  
it. And this wouldve been  no different if Mr D applied for the card in a branch, from what we 
know of the application forms in use in branches at the time.
I dont doubt that what  Mr D has told us is based  on his best recollections.  He believes he 
didnt knowingly sign up to PPI. But buying  card insurance is often not very memorable. And 
Mr Ds PPI was sold well over fifteen  years ago at least. So it isnt surprising Mr Ds memory 
of that time and of his card application isnt detailed. In view of all this, the fact Mr D doesnt 
recall asking for the PPI  whether on a form or in a branch -  isnt enough to make me think  
Lloyds added the PPI to his card without asking  him or getting his agreement. And I havent 
seen anything else to suggest that this is what Lloyds most likely did. So, taking into account 
everything I have, there isnt enough to make  me think that Mr D didnt agree to the PPI or 
that Lloyds didnt make it clear that Mr D had a choice about taking it.
In saying this, I take into account also what Mr D says about not having made a claim on the 
PPI. If Mr D didnt  claim on the cover when he couldve, it might mean that he didnt think of 
claiming or didnt remember  the cover at that time. But I dont think it means  Lloyds must 
have most  likely added the cover  without his knowledge or agreement at the start.  Mr D has 
said he has suffered illness and was off work at times.  But if Mr D thinks  he ought to have 
got a payment from the policy in the past and wishes  to try to make  a retrospective claim for 
this now, hed need to approach the policy  insurer about that separately.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D it had to do more and check  the PPI was right for 
him. And Lloyds thinks it mightve recommended Mr D the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess 
Ref: DRN14937092the case on that basis  which places on Lloyds  more  responsibility for the sale.  But based 
on what Ive seen of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time,  I think  the PPI was right for him. 
For example Mr D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For 
example Mr D was self-employed but the policy terms  didnt  make  it more difficult to claim 
because of this. For a successful claim, the PPI wouldve covered Mr Ds card payments for 
up to twelve months. And, as a self-employed person, Mr D wouldnt have got any work sick 
pay or redundancy pay if he was out of work  or too sick to work. Also,  from what  hes told us, 
Mr D didnt have much in the way of savings to fall back  on. So, bearing all this in mind, Mr D 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I havent seen enough  to make me think he didnt choose to take it - so I cant  say 
that he didnt want this type of cover at the time. And, for the reasons Ive given, it seems like 
the cover  wouldve been  useful for Mr D if something went wrong. Taking  everything into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI wouldve put Mr D off taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr Ds points, including what hes said about Lloyds having agreed  that 
it mis-sold him PPI on a loan he had. But the sales processes for and merits of different PPI 
products are different. So even if Mr Ds loan PPI was mis-sold, I dont think  this means his 
credit card PPI was. For this reason  - and while I acknowledge Mr Ds firm belief that the PPI 
was added to his card unfairly - bearing  in mind all Ive said above  already, these points  
dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1493709