K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he hasnt received the support he should have on the training  course  he 
paid for through a fixed sum loan agreement with TTR PT Limited. 
background
Mr D entered into a loan agreement  with TTR PT in May 2017 to pay for a training  course.  
He says that when he signed up for the course  emphasis  was put on the career support and 
helping to find work. He says that since completing  his exams he hasnt received this 
support. He says the only support he has been  offered  was in regard to his curriculum vitae 
(CV) and that this was minimal. Mr D says he hasnt  been provided with the service  he was 
promised and so a breach of contract  has occurred.
TTR PT didnt agree that Mr D hadnt been  provided  with support from its careers advice 
team. It says that it has provided  general  support and career  support to Mr D. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She didnt think that there had been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation.
 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he wasnt receiving the support 
he was offered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for a training course. In this case TTR 
PT is both the lender  and the training provider. Under the regulations,  Mr D can claim 
against TTR PT if the course  was misrepresented  to him or a breach of contract has 
occurred.
Mr D had a previous complaint which he raised with this service. This is a new complaint and 
relates to the career support which Mr D says he hasnt received as promised.
I have looked  through  the terms  and conditions and can see that they set out that "In 
addition to the Training Course you will receive access to our career support service for up 
to 3 years  from registration". The brochure provided for the course describes what career 
support is provided  explaining that dedicated  support is available  from a certain point in the 
course. 
I have looked  through  the information provided and can see that TTR PT did get in contact 
with Mr D about providing career support. It provided feedback on his CV as Mr D had 
requested. I note Mr Ds comments that only minor amendments were  made,  however  I can 
see from the response that the adviser  provided suggestions for changes and also said that 
the CV was of a good standard.  The adviser said that the job Mr D was considering was one 
that matched  his skills and qualifications. So while I appreciate Mr D may have expected 
more comments TTR PT did provide the requested feedback.
Throughout the first half of 2018,  I can see that TTR PT were in regular contact with Mr D 
providing general support as well as enquiring about  what  career support he might need  and 
Ref: DRN10587642reviewing his CV. Following the review of Mr Ds CV in June 2018, TTR PT got in contact in 
August to ask if Mr D needed anything from the career support team.  It then attempted 
contact in October and November and further  attempts were  made  at the start of 2019.
I understand that Mr D doesnt think he has received the support he should have. However,  
the brochure set out that support would be available and from what  I have seen TTR PT has 
responded to Mr Ds requests when made and has also made  attempts to contact  him when 
he hasnt been  in touch. Based on this I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that 
TTR PT has breached its contract or that a misrepresentation has occurred. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1058764