K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains, through her independent financial adviser (IFA), that she was given 
unsuitable advice  by SHK Finance Ltd to move her pension account to a new provider.
background
Mrs M met with an adviser in 2016 when she was advised to move  her pension account  from 
Nucleus to Prudential.  Advice was also given  to surrender an investment bond held jointly 
with her husband and reinvest in a new bond  with Prudential, which is the subject of a 
separate complaint.
Mrs M complains that the advice to move her pension to Prudential  was unsuitable and her 
objective couldve been met by simply changing funds within  Nucleus, so avoiding the costs 
of moving to a new provider. 
SHK didnt uphold  her complaint. In short it said that Mrs M wanted to reduce volatility  and 
the recommendations in relation to that had been  extensively discussed. It referred to the 
statement that Mrs M had received from Nucleus for the six months to October 2015 which 
identified the volatility in the funds  since April 2015  and said that is why she wanted to 
investigate alternatives.  SHK said that the recommended investment through  Prudential  
using its Expected  Growth Rate concept  helped to minimise volatility as Mrs M wanted.
SHK said that all product  charges had been discussed and that Nucleus charges amounted 
to 2.27% and that Prudentials was less at 2.2%.  It also said that the initial  fee and ongoing 
annual fee payable to SHK had been  discussed  and illustrations  provided.  As a gesture of 
goodwill it was willing to refund half the initial fee paid to SHK.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  the advice to transfer the 
pension plan to Prudential was unsuitable.  She said she wasnt persuaded that a fund switch  
within her existing account was suitable,  given her objective of reducing volatility and her 
unhappiness with her existing investments. She also didnt think  the transfer was unsuitable 
because of the charges incurred in transferring.
The IFA responded and in short made the following points:
Mrs M never  asked for less volatility as she didnt understand what that word meant 
at the time.
It was acknowledged  that she couldnt prove  the adviser said he was doing this for all 
of his clients.
He was shocked advisers  were still getting  away with churning their clients.
It isnt clear how it has been concluded that Prudential is cheaper than Nucleus as 
the information he has obtained shows that Prudential charged  1.59% not 0.95% as 
quoted by the adviser.
A fund switch within Nucleus wouldve reduced its charges.
The actual costs  of Prudential, as shown in his calculations, are higher.
How can the advice  be suitable when the option of a fund switch hasnt been 
considered, and the client was misled about  costs?
There were  no guarantees  that Prudentials account would be less volatile,  but the 
basis of the advice is that it would be. If hindsight is to be ignored, as the investigator  
has indicated, the fact that it has turned  out less volatile should  be ignored given the 
Prufund dropped  18% in two months in 2008.
Ref: DRN19860662Mrs M isnt asking  for a large amount in compensation, just repayment of the initial 
fee as not all options were explained.
There is no evidence that Mrs M was unhappy with Nucleus itself so a fund switch 
could have been a simple and cheap option without an immediate  drop due to fees.
The recommendation was less flexible,  had less fund choice, was more expensive, 
and incurred an initial advice fee. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  to make clear that my findings  and decision  are made on a balance of 
probabilities based on the evidence that has been provided. So I am not saying what  
definitely did, or didnt,  happen, only what is more likely, than not, to have happened. I have  
made this clear because  the adviser  has raised  a genuine concern about the advice being a 
churn  advice based on generating  fees for the adviser rather than the suitability of the 
investment for the customer.  
I understand the concern  over churning.  I accept  it is possible this is what the adviser did. 
But in this case, for reasons I have  set out below, I dont think it is more likely than not that is 
what he did.
There isnt agreement about how Mrs M (and her husband) came to have a meeting with the 
adviser. She has suggested  it was the adviser  who arranged it. But SHK have said she and 
her husband  wanted  a meeting to discuss their investments because  of a recent six month 
statement from Nucleus (which showed  a reasonable loss in value).  Given  there is no 
evidence to support  either version  of events I make no finding  on this point. And however the 
meeting came about I have to decide if the advice that was given was suitable.
The information I have  seen in the fact find and suitability report shows  that Mrs M was 
concerned about  the volatility in her existing  pension account with Nucleus. I note what the 
IFA has said about her not knowing what that word meant at the time. But she didnt need to 
know the word itself, or have used it, to be concerned  about  the fluctuations in the value of 
her pension as shown in the recent  six month statement from Nucleus.
The fact find (which was in relation to both the pension account and joint investment bond) 
stated:
Your recent experiences  have raised the question can less volatility  be available within  the 
current product types you have.
And under attitude to risk:
Both: Moderate attitude to investment risk but would like to achieve a smoother growth 
without large portfolio  swings over any given period.
The suitability report to Mrs M states:
The main priority  you wish to address is to continue  a drawdown arrangement but invest 
into an arrangement  that does not display the level of volatility  you currently  experience. You 
wish to remain in a similar investment risk portfolio but would like to identify with any new 
Ref: DRN19860663arrangement the potential  for less historical fund volatility within the fund management  
structure and overall fund performance.
The letter goes on to state that Mrs M had a balanced/moderate attitude to risk but that she 
wanted an investment  that minimised fund volatility within her risk profile.
The suitability letter also states,  under  the heading Summary of What We Agreed, that:
 You wanted to address  your priority to transfer your Nucleus Pension Account to a 
Prudential Flexible  Retirement Transfer plan. This decision is primarily based on the 
historical fund data that has been presented in demonstrating the smoothing  achievement  of 
fund performance achieved by the investment management team when compared with other  
market fund data.  The evident result of this is the minimising of fund volatility  when 
compared to your current investment.
Given what is set out in the documents I think it is more  likely than not that Mrs M did want to 
invest so as to reduce  volatility. I note it is suggested that she didnt get the suitability report. 
But even if she didnt  I think  it is more  likely  than not that it shows  what  was discussed. 
On the basis this was her objective I think whether the advice to move her pension  account 
to Prudential was a suitable recommendation comes  down to whether this couldve achieved 
her objective  and, if it could, whether the same outcome couldve been achieved by simply 
changing funds  within her Nucleus pension account. 
From what  I have  seen Im satisfied that the investment in the Prudential  pension account,  
into the Prufunds Growth fund, couldve achieved Mrs Ms objective of reduced  volatility.  The 
information I have  seen about  the Prufund  Growth fund refers to aiming to reduce the impact  
of the changes in value  of the funds by using a smoothing process.  Mrs M signed various 
graphs in 2016 which showed the impact  of this smoothing process  historically. 
The IFA has suggested there was no guarantee that Prudential  would  offer a less volatile 
retirement journey  than any other  fund and that if hindsight is ignored the perception  that 
Prufund funds  were going to be less volatile should be disregarded.  He refers to the large 
drop in value in Prufund funds in 2008 in support of what  he has said.
But the fact there was no guarantee  as the adviser  made clear in the suitability  letter  that 
the Prufund Growth fund would be less volatile doesnt mean the advice was unsuitable. It is 
clear from the information I have  seen that the Prufund Growth  fund was managed  in such  a 
way as to try and reduce volatility,  so it differed from Mrs Ms investment in Nucleus funds.
I note the drop in value in 2008 and what the IFA has said about  the Prufund  Growth  fund 
dropping as much as any other fund. But just because the fund dropped  significantly in value 
during what has often been  called the worst financial crisis in history  isnt persuasive 
evidence the fund wasnt managed so as to reduce  volatility. I am satisfied on the evidence  I 
have seen that it was managed with that objective in mind  and as such I think  it was a 
suitable recommendation for someone  who wanted  less volatility in their investment. 
It has been suggested that the objective  of less volatility couldve been achieved by moving  
funds within  Nucleus. Its possible  this might have reduced volatility,  but this wouldnt have 
been by design, as with the Prufund  Growth fund. And I have seen no evidence that doing 
this couldve achieved Mrs Ms objective.  The fact find and suitability letter  recorded  that 
Ref: DRN19860664there was no change to her risk appetite. So simply changing to more cautious funds within 
Nucleus wouldnt have  been a suitable alternative.
Mrs M has also complained about  the charges for changing to Prudential.  There  was an 
annual management  charge (AMC) applied by Prudential but the figure  for this isnt entirely 
clear. The illustration for the pension plan, signed by Mrs M, showed an effective AMC of 
1.2%. This is in line with a document, also signed by Mrs M, entitled Decumulation  inputs 
showing how long her pension pot might last. This showed an AMC of 1.45% with a 0.25% 
discount.
But in a recent letter to the IFA Prudential has stated the AMC is 1.59% with a discount of 
0.25% - so an effective  AMC  of 1.34%. I dont know why there is a difference  in the figures 
and whether the adviser provided  the wrong information about  the AMC. I note the IFA has 
provided a figure for Nucleuss AMC of 1.28% which means, if the recent  figure provided by 
Prudential is right, Nucleuss AMC wouldve been lower.
But the fact find recorded that charges were a low priority for Mrs M, and lower charges 
werent identified  as an objective.  I have  also seen no evidence that she was persuaded to 
move to Prudential because it had lower  charges.
The charges  included an initial adviser fee of 1% and an ongoing  adviser fee of 1%. 
The initial adviser  charge and ongoing  adviser  charge  are also shown in the signed 
illustration and Decumulation  input document.
Based on the evidence  I have seen, Im satisfied  Mrs M was made aware  of the charges for 
the advice, ongoing advice and the AMC. And even if the figure for the AMC was wrong  
and it isnt clear it was at the time of advice  Im not satisfied this led Mrs M to invest in the 
Prudential pension account when she would otherwise  not have done so, given charges 
werent a priority and her objective  was less volatility not lower charges.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1986066