K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Sainsburys Bank PLC is sending him notices of sums  in arrears 
(notices) which breach  the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) and contain incorrect 
information.
background
Mr S has a credit card account with Sainsburys. He fell into arrears and the account  was 
defaulted by Sainsburys in November 2016.  Since at least  February 2017, hes been  
repaying £1 per month under an agreed  payment arrangement.
In 2018, Mr S started  receiving notices from Sainsburys saying he hadnt  made  his minimum 
payment of £0. They also said the total payments not received in the last two months  came  
to a figure in credit  (CR  on the notices).  
Sainsburys is regularly sending these notices  to Mr S. He thinks it shouldnt  be doing so as 
hes keeping  to his payment arrangement.  And he considers the notices confusing, as they 
say his contractual monthly payment is £0  but that hes not meeting it.
Mr S complained to Sainsburys about the notices.  It said it was obliged to send them. And 
the contractual minimum payment  showed  as £0 because its not expecting Mr S to meet 
these due to the status of his account.  It also sent him a cheque  for £30 compensation for 
the delay responding to his complaint 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr S referred the matter to our service. Our investigator  was 
satisfied that Sainsburys  was sending the notices to comply  with its regulatory and legal 
requirements. He accepted its explanation  of how the payment information was set out. And 
he thought it was clear  that Sainsburys wasnt demanding immediate payment. So he didnt 
think it needed to do anything more to remedy the situation. 
Mr S didnt accept this. He thinks that, under the relevant  legislation,  Sainsburys only needs  
to send notices  for running accounts. As his account  is in default, he doesnt think it should 
be sending any notices.  So his case  has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mr S thinks  the notices shouldnt be sent because his account  is no longer running. 
I consider this likely  to be a reference to section 86C of the CCA, which sets out the 
conditions under which creditors must send notices for running-account credit agreements. 
This term simply  describes  certain types  of credit agreementssuch  as credit cardswhich 
allow customers to use a credit facility on a running basis  up to an agreed limit; it doesnt 
connote whether an account is live or in default.  
Although Mr S no longer has use of a credit facility, the agreement  he entered was for a 
credit card. And he still owes money  under this agreement.  So its fair and reasonable for 
Sainsburys to keep  him informed about  the status of his account. And Im satisfied  that its 
entitledor even  obligated by statuteto  send him notices in order  to do this.
Ref: DRN12335132I can see why the £0 minimum  payment has caused  some  confusion  so Ill explain why this 
is. When Mr S took out the credit card, he agreed to repay a minimum amount each month  
and to keep his borrowing within the agreed limit. But he breached this, meaning his account  
is now in default. So, strictly speaking, Sainsburys could  seek immediate payment of the 
full outstanding balance through legal action.  Rather than doing thatwhich  would put strain 
on Mr Ss financial situationits agreed to follow  regulatory guidance and act with 
forbearance and due consideration by accepting token payments of £1 per month instead. 
And its set his minimum payments to £0 per month  in order  to facilitate this. Otherwise, Mr S 
would still be receiving  monthly notices seeking the minimum amount hed agreed to pay 
under the contract  and that would confuse  the £1 repayment plan. 
The result of all of this is that the notices say Mr Ss monthly payment is £0 and the total  
payments not received in the last two months  are in credit. Although  the format of the 
notices has caused  confusion, I consider this to be a consequence of Sainsburys treating 
Mr S with forbearance and due consideration by allowing a payment arrangement.
Mr S says he wasnt receiving these notices until 2018. So either now or previously, he 
considers Sainsburys  to be in breach of its requirements. Under section 86D of the CCA, if a 
creditor doesnt comply  with its duty to send notices, the borrower has no liability to pay 
interest or default  charges  during  the period of non-compliance.  But Mr S isnt being charged  
interest or any other  fees. So theres no remedy due to him for any non-compliance. 
Additionally, although Sainsburys may be sending him more than the minimum requirement, 
its not prohibited  from sending  him notices outside the criteria in section 86C of CCA. The 
notices show how much Mr S has repaid and how much he still owes. They also make  it 
clear that, because hes in a payment  arrangement, no immediate payment is due. So I dont 
consider them detrimental to him. As such,  Ive decided that Sainsburys doesnt need to pay 
Mr S compensation over and above  the £30 its already paid or offer any other remedies.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1233513