K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained about Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limiteds  (AA) 
actions in connection with her motor  insurance  policies. 
Mrs Cs husband has occasionally contacted AA on Mrs Cs behalf.  But for ease Ill refer to 
his actions as being those  of Mrs C.
background 
Mrs C had two cars insured on separate policies, which Ill refer to as policies A and B, both 
of which  were arranged  by AA. Mrs Cs husband was a named driver on both of her policies. 
AA are an insurance intermediary, so it will sell policies and might help with their 
administration, but it doesnt provide the cover itself, which  is provided  by a range  of insurers  
depending on the policy. 
In January 2018 Mrs C contacted AA, she said shed received a renewal notice  for her car 
on policy A but it had been declared  off road - known as a statutory off road notification or 
SORN - for some months. She said shed previously  told AA about this. AA cancelled the 
renewal policy without  charge but didnt provide any refund for the previous policy  year.
The next month Mrs C contacted AA again. She said it had written to her to tell her it had 
cancelled policy B. Mrs C thought this must  be a mistake as shed asked for policy A to be 
cancelled not policy B. AA explained that the insurer of policy B had learned about a 
previous claim from her husband and had withdrawn the cover.  AA said it had offered Mrs C 
another policy but when she didnt reply it had cancelled  policy  B. It said Mrs C still owed 
around £118 for the cancelled policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 December 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it in 
part.  
In bringing this complaint Mrs Cs made  a number  of detailed points. I've considered  very 
carefully all the information from both Mrs C and AA. But in this decision I will focus  on what  I 
see as being the key outstanding issues.
cancellation of policy A
Mrs C said that she asked  AA to cancel policy A shortly after declaring  it SORN on 
30 May 2017. AA said that it had no record of Mrs C asking for the policy to be cancelled 
until she contacted  it in January 2018.   
I understand Mrs C thinks that she asked  AA to cancel policy  A around the time that it was 
declared SORN. But there is very little evidence in support of that. Mrs C says she sent a 
Ref: DRN11946572letter by recorded  delivery which was signed for. But she didnt keep the slip to show the 
letter was delivered  as she didnt think shed need  it. But without that record the only 
evidence of Mrs C contacting AA is her recollection that she did so. And while  she later sent 
it proof that the car was declared SORN she didnt give a specific date on which shed 
written to AA and she didnt provide a copy of the letter shed sent to it. 
Also, Mrs C was paying for her policy by monthly direct debit and AA continued to collect her 
full premium payments  monthly until the policy renewed. And if shed cancelled  her policy  
then Mrs C could have  expected her payments  to alter. But theres  no evidence Mrs C 
contacted AA to ask it how much,  if anything, she still owed for policy A or when she could 
expect her payments  for policy A to stop.  So it appears that she might  not have contacted 
AA and asked  it to cancel when she thinks she did.
On the other hand Ive noted  that in a call with AA one of its call handlers  said she could see 
that people had accessed the policy on its system in May 2017 but nobody had left any 
notes. But it's not clear  why the call handler made  that comment.  AAs system record doesnt  
show any such access to Mrs Cs accounts  in May 2017. And AA said its call handler must 
have made  a mistake. It said theres  evidence of its staff accessing Mrs Cs account the 
previous year, in May 2016, but theres nothing in May 2017. It said that its system  adds  an 
entry each time one of its staff accesses an account. And those  entries can't be modified or 
edited. So if its staff had accessed  Mrs Cs account in May 2017 then there would  be a 
record of that. But no such record exists.
Ive seen screen shots from AAs system. And theres no evidence  of any of its staff 
accessing Mrs Cs account in May or June 2017. So Im not persuaded that Mrs C did ask 
for AA to cancel the policy at that time.  And in those circumstances I dont think  its fair to 
ask AA to treat the policy  as cancelled  from June 2017. It follows that I don't think  it needs to 
provide any premium refund for that period.
AAs service
Mrs C said AA didnt tell her that it was cancelling policy B. AA has provided us with 
evidence to show that it sent Mrs C a letter  telling  her that the insurer  which  underwrote her 
renewal policy had withdrawn the offer of cover. That letter  offered  Mrs C an alternative 
policy and said that if she didnt contact it to say that she wanted the policy  it would cancel it. 
As Mrs C didnt  contact AA it then sent a letter to say that the policy  was cancelled. Mrs C 
did receive that letter, although  she says it took a week to reach her.
As I've said above AAs shown us evidence that it did write to Mrs C to let her know that the 
policy would be cancelled if she didnt contact  it. Its clear that she didnt receive that letter  
but I dont think  that was because AA did anything wrong. That said Ive noted that when 
Mrs C rang AA to query the cancellation  the call handler told her that she couldnt  see any 
letter for the cancellation. I asked AA if it could  explain why the call handler  might have 
made that comment.  In response it told me that the cancellation notices were issued through  
its system. So it couldnt explain why its call handler couldnt see them  and said that she 
might not have checked properly. But, whatever the reason, its clearly not satisfactory  that 
one of AAs call handlers can twice, in the same call, give incorrect and misleading 
information.
From that point on it was clear that Mrs C was very unhappy with AAs service. In particular 
she wasn't happy that certain return calls werent  made when promised. She was also 
unhappy that AA didnt  deal with her concerns as a formal  complaint. AAs said that Mrs C 
Ref: DRN11946573didnt explicitly say that she wanted  the matter dealt with as a formal  complaint. But from the 
calls Ive listened to I think it was clear that Mrs C was very unhappy with AAs service. And I 
dont think AA ever managed to resolve her concerns. Ive also noted that AAs own staff had 
referred to Mrs Cs concerns as a complaint. So I think it should have escalated the matter 
internally and dealt  with it as a formal complaint far earlier. I dont think it should  be 
necessary for a consumer such as Mrs C to have to formally request that AA deal with her 
clear concerns as a complaint.  It should  have realised that it hadnt sorted out the points 
shed raised sooner and taken action to address  her complaint formally,  even  if Mrs C didnt 
make such  an explicit  request. And I think its failure to do so added to Mrs Cs frustration. So 
to address Mrs Cs distress and inconvenience  caused by the gaps in AAs service I think it 
should pay her £100  compensation.
developments
Both AA and Mrs C accepted my provisional  decision.  But Mrs C said she felt badly let down 
by AA and wanted to make some points. She said that when she contacted AA about 
cancelling policy A it told her that her premium payments  might  not reduce for some months. 
Then - because of her personal circumstances  - she didnt realise that the policy hadn't 
cancelled until it came for renewal.
Mrs C added that prior to the events that I referred  to in my provisional decision shed 
contacted AA about her husbands  claim and asked it to note her husbands  claim against  
both policies. But AA only updated policy A and that led to the cancellation of policy B. 
Mrs C said that she did ask AA to raise a formal complaint in February  2018  and was given 
the name of a manager who was supposed to be looking into it. She only learned that AA 
hadnt dealt with her concerns as a complaint  when  she contacted it after receiving a 
demand for cancellation  fees.
Mrs C also commented that, in a phone call which AA have not recorded, the complaint's 
manager told her it was worrying that it was giving Mrs C incorrect  information. Mrs C said 
she told the complaints  manager she found her patronising and shed lost faith in the AA.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it in 
part.
Given that both AA and Mrs C have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to 
depart from my findings.  But for completeness Ill briefly address the key points that Mrs C 
raised in response  to my provisional  findings.
Mrs C said that AA told her that her premiums wouldnt  alter for a couple  of months after she 
asked it to cancel  policy A. But as I said in my provisional decision I can't find any 
persuasive record of Mrs C telling AA she wanted to cancel policy A before January 2018. 
Her recent comments haven't changed  my finding  on that.
Mrs C has referred  to events that I didnt  comment on in my provisional decision. Those 
concerned the notification  of her husband's claim to AA. I didnt refer to that in my provisional 
decision as Mrs C had accepted our investigator's findings on that point. And those where  
that Mrs C didnt notify AA of the claim but instead  notified the insurer  of the policy at that 
Ref: DRN11946574time directly. And our investigator said that Mrs C should have realised that only one of her 
policies referred to her husband's  claim. I agree with our investigators assessment  of that 
for the reasons she gave. So I don't intend  to comment further on that matter.
Mrs Cs said she did ask for AA to raise a formal complaint in February 2018. Having 
listened to the calls I dont think she did explicitly ask for AA to raise a complaint  formally. 
But as I said in my provisional decision I dont think she should have had to. It was clear that 
she was raising a complaint. And I certainly  understand  why she thought AA were  dealing 
with her concerns  as a formal matter. That was in part why I recommended  compensation in 
my provisional decision. 
Mrs C also commented on other concerns she had with AAs service. Although shes 
acknowledged that AA doesn't have a record of the specific call shes referring to. And, in 
any case, Im awarding compensation  for some of the gaps in AAs service. So I don't intend  
to comment now on the phone call Mrs Cs referred  to in response  to my provisional decision 
as I think the compensation Ive awarded addresses  AAs instances of poor service.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I partly uphold this complaint. I 
require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs C £100 compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience. It should  pay the compensation within  28 days of us 
telling it that Mrs C has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If AA pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1194657