K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr F and Bank of Scotland my provisional  decision on 31 December 2018. I said that 
before I made my final decision,  Id consider  any further information from the parties, so long 
as I received it before 31 January 2019.
Mr F told us that he accepts my provisional  decision. Bank  of Scotland  did not provide any 
further information.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mr F signed.  On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which  has a pre-printed cross 
in it to take out the PPI. The form also has other pre-printed information on it, such  as 
Mr Fs employment  and financial details. Ive thought carefully  about what  Mr F has said,  
but I just dont think theres  enough  evidence to say he wasnt given a choice. Instead  I 
think, as the policy  was sold to Mr F during a meeting, that the cross in the box for PPI 
reflected a discussion Mr F and the adviser had before  the form was finalised  and that 
the form was printed  to reflect what they had discussed. So overall I think its most likely  
that Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr F didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr F so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, Mr F wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and Mr F seems  to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful to him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said. But for the reasons explained above,  these  
points dont change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN10378282This means  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mr F paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr F 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1037828