K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold her a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit  card repayments.
background
Mrs H applied for a credit  card in 1999. At the same  time she took out a PPI policy to cover 
her credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.70 per £100  of the balance on Mrs Hs credit  
card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance  for up 
to 12 months per claim  if Mrs H was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld because  she thought Mrs H 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs H disagrees.  She says she never asked for PPI. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for when Mrs H completed  an application for a credit  card.  Barclays 
have given us a copy of the application form Mrs H completed. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI titled  
Payment Protection Plan. It gives the options to select Yes, I want my Barclaycard  
account(s) to be covered or No, I do not require  protection. I can see on Mrs Hs 
application form a tick has been placed next to the Yes. If Mrs H didnt want PPI she could 
have ticked next to the No. 
So I think because Mrs H selected  to take PPI with a tick she understood she had a choice 
in taking the policy and wanted  the cover. 
Mrs H is adamant she handed  in the application  form at a branch of Barclays and that no 
advice was given  so I dont think Barclays recommended PPI to Mrs H, it just gave her 
information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could  make  an informed choice about  buying PPI.
I dont know if Barclays did give all the proper  information that was needed. But even if 
Barclays did give all the information  Mrs H needed to make  an informed choice on taking out 
the policy, I think she wouldve still taken  the policy and I think  even if the policy was 
recommended it was a suitable recommendation because at the time of sale from what we 
know about Barclays policies:
Ref: DRN19426162She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs H says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and her 
family wouldve helped  her make her repayments  if she couldnt  work due to accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. But there is no guarantee her family  could help and the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and helped her if she couldnt work due 
to accident or sickness or was made redundant, so I cant  see how this made the policy 
unsuitable or knowing this information wouldve put her off buying it. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs H and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs H on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19426163
Ref: DRN1942616