K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she contacted Lloyds Bank  Plc to advise she was experiencing 
financial difficulties and it refused to consolidate her two current  loans. She also wants  to be 
compensated for the poor customer service she experienced. 
background
Mrs C experienced financial difficulties as a result  of a change  in her personal  
circumstances. She contacted Lloyds last year to ask if it would  consider  consolidating  her 
two loans in order  that she could make  smaller  monthly  payments  over a longer period.  
Mrs C says that after a lengthy telephone call, which included providing  details of her 
monthly income and expenditure,  she was advised  that because  she couldnt afford the 
minimum consolidated  monthly repayment, Lloyds wouldnt be willing  to offer her a new loan 
repayment arrangement.
Lloyds offered to discuss a reduced  payment plan with Mrs C but she didnt want to take this 
option because  of the impact on her credit file. Lloyds  gave  Mrs C details of a debt advice  
agency as well as the option of an income and expenditure form being sent through the post 
for her to complete in her own time and return. It said this would allow  it to look at her 
financial circumstances again.
Mrs C wasnt happy with Lloyds decision and the poor customer service she says she 
experienced and made a complaint to the bank. 
Lloyds wrote to Mrs C and didnt uphold the part of her complaint regarding  her eligibility for 
a consolidated loan or the length  of time spent on the phone  call. It did, however, uphold the 
aspect regarding the poor customer  service  received when Mrs C contacted the bank  and 
arranged to pay her £50 in recognition of the inconvenience she experienced.
Mrs C didnt agree with Lloyds decision and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  that Lloyds had acted fairly in making a 
commercial decision not to offer Mrs C a consolidated loan. He thought the bank had acted  
positively and sympathetically towards  Mrs Cs financial situation.  He also thought  the 
payment of £50 in recognition of the poor customer service she experienced was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs C disagreed and so the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has an ongoing obligation to treat Mrs C positively and sympathetically while she 
remains in financial difficulties but is also required to lend responsibly.  
Its not my role as an ombudsman to determine Lloyds lending criteria.  From looking at 
Mrs Cs case notes and the details of her income and expenditure provided, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds made  a legitimate commercial decision,  based on her current circumstances, not to 
Ref: DRN16953262offer her a consolidated loan. This was because it said she didnt have enough disposable 
income to repay the loan, even at the proposed reduced monthly amount.   
Ive listened to the phone conversation Mrs C had with the complaints manager  at Lloyds 
and Im satisfied she was treated positively and sympathetically. I say this because  the 
manager listened to her concerns and requests  and gave her advice such as contacting a 
debt advice agency. He also suggested  taking the time to complete and return  an income 
and expenditure  form in order that the bank could look at her financial circumstances again. 
Mrs C had also been offered the option  of a reduced  payment plan which I understand she 
didnt wish to consider because of the impact on her credit  file. For these reasons, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds acted correctly in dealing with Mrs Cs request for a consolidated loan.
With regard to the poor customer service received, I can see from its complaint response 
that Lloyds offered an apology and paid Mrs C £50 in recognition that it could have  handled 
her enquiry  better. I think this is fair and reasonable and will not be asking Lloyds to do 
anything further  regarding this matter.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not persuaded that Lloyds did anything wrong in its dealing  
with Mrs Cs financial difficulties or in making a commercial decision not to consolidate her 
loans. In recognition  of the inconvenience  caused  to her when she contacted  it, Lloyds has 
paid Mrs C £50. 
my final decision
Im aware that Lloyds  Bank Plc has made an offer to pay £50. For the reasons Ive given, its 
my final decision that such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. If it hasnt 
already done so, Lloyds Bank  Plc should now pay Mrs C £50.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695326