K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr T says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr T has said he was led to believe the policy was compulsory but Ive also seen that he 
told us he didnt know he had PPI. As these statements are somewhat different it appears 
Mr Ts recollection  of events may have been  affected over time  which is understandable 
due to the time that has passed  since the sale. But I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr T 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I say this because  Ive been 
given a copy of the credit card application form completed at the time. On this form there is 
a section for the PPI and I can see that the box has been ticked  to indicate that Mr T wanted 
to take out the cover. Mr T has signed the form which suggests this reflected what he 
wanted. 
Mr T was signing this form to agree to a new financial commitment so I think he would have  
looked over the form before he signed it. There was also an option to tick no if the cover  
wasnt required, so if Mr T didnt want to take out the PPI he could have ticked the no box.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr T got the information  he needed to decide  for himself if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI by ticking the box on the application  form - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN16458582my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645858