K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that HFC Bank  Limited  mis-sold him a credit  card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit  card by post in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
HFC doesnt  have any of the original documentation from the sale,  which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place. But it does  make this a more  difficult  complaint to decide. 
In reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have and what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened.
Mr M has told us that he cant remember anything about the sales process at all. But he has 
also said that he was given the impression  that his credit card application wouldnt be 
successful unless he agreed to the PPI. These statements are slightly  at odds with each 
other. The sale was in 1994 so it isnt surprising if Mr M doesnt have any real recollection of 
the sale.
Mr M applied  for the credit card and PPI by post. So there wouldnt have been any input from 
HFC staff at the point  where Mr M was completing the application  form. So any impression 
that the policy wasnt optional can only have come  from the wording of the form itself.
As Ive mentioned,  HFC doesnt have a copy of Mr Ms actual application  form. Mr M says 
that HFC strongly advised him to accept the PPI. I have seen a sample copy  of an HFC 
application form (from a different year of sale) that does have a PPI section that says: We 
strongly recommend  that you take this cover, together with yes or no tick boxes to either 
accept or decline the policy.  But I dont think that anyone looking at this statement would 
have thought it to be a personalised  recommendation aimed  just at them. As an applicant  
was able to tick to have the PPI or not, Im satisfied that the optional nature  of the policy  was 
made clear. We havent seen anything about HFCs  sales processes at that time to make us 
think that the PPI was automatically included with the card. On balance,  based on the 
available evidence, I think it is more  likely  than not that Mr M decided to take out the policy,  
knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
HFC didnt advise Mr M to buy the PPI, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met his needs. But 
it should have  given Mr M enough  information  for him to make  an informed decision about 
whether or not the policy was right for him.
Ref: DRN12053402Mr M has told us that he would have received a maximum of six months  sick pay from his 
job. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer 
than Mr M would have received full pay for. He had a small amount of savings, but having 
the policy would have allowed him to retain  these or use them to cover other outgoings at 
what would  have been a difficult time. Mr M has also said that family  would  have helped,  but 
other people  cant  always  be relied  upon  as their circumstances  can change.  So it seems to 
me that Mr M had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that HFC didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr M wasnt  affected by any of those things. 
As I think  Mr M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  him to change his mind. So he isnt any worse off as a result  
of anything HFC may have done wrong,  so theres  nothing that HFC needs to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1205340