K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to cover a 
catalogue shopping account in 2006.  Mrs J says Studio Retail  Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Studio had to make  Mrs J aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding the policy to her account. Studio has told us it sold the PPI policy  to Mrs J over the 
phone. Mrs J says she didnt take the policy over the phone. From the evidence  available  
including screen  shots of Studios system I think its more likely  the policy was taken out by 
phone. 
Studio has supplied some scripts that were in use at the time it sold PPI to Mrs J. These  
show that the representative wouldve been prompted to point out that the policy  was 
optional, and gain consent for it to be added. While  I cant be certain how closely  the scripts 
wouldve been followed, I havent seen  anything to suggest that Studio  did anything 
differently when it sold the PPI to Mrs J. Based on the information available I think Mrs J 
would have known  she didnt need  to have the policy  although I can understand  why she 
may not remember this.
Studio recommended  the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Mrs J 
has told us she was entitled to sick pay when she applied for the PPI. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Js sick pay, and for longer. Based on what  Ive seen of 
Mrs Js circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So I think it was right for her.
Its possible the information Studio gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Studio doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Ref: DRN18131132Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1813113