K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua  has charged  her increasing amounts of 
interest which is more than the account  balance. She also complains about Aquas customer  
service.
background
Mrs M says she closed  her Aqua credit card account  some years ago and has continued to 
make monthly repayments.  She says shes being charged increasing  amounts of interest 
which is more than the balance she owes. Mrs M says she would like a full breakdown of the 
payments and for Aqua to acknowledge its poor service.  She would also like the balance 
written off and says shes made complaints  to Aqua which its not answered.
Aqua says Mrs M has made two complaints to it which  it investigated and responded to. It 
says its applied interest in line with the account terms and conditions and the interest  rate 
has not increased. Aqua says it doesnt have a record of other complaints.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  
thought the interest was correctly applied  in line with the account  terms and conditions  and 
so didnt think Aqua had acted unfairly  or made a mistake. He didnt  think  the interest  rate 
had increased  and that Aqua had responded to Mrs Ms complaints.
Mrs M doesnt  accept that view and says she made  a number of calls and raised  three main 
complaints. She also says she wanted  a breakdown of the payments and interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for the same  reasons. I realise  Mrs M will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mrs M would  have  agreed to the terms and conditions of the credit  card 
account when  it was opened  in 2010. And I have no reason to think  or find that Aqua has 
made a mistake by charging Mrs M interest in these circumstances.  I dont think it matters 
that Mrs M has closed her account as she owed Aqua money. And in line with the account  
terms and conditions Aqua was entitled to continue charging interest until the balance was 
repaid.
 If Mrs M is in financial difficulties then I would expect Aqua to deal positively and 
sympathetically with her position. But I cant see that Mrs M has either told us or Aqua about  
any such difficulties.
I can see that Mrs M now has a copy of a document showing  her the interest and payments 
on her account. Im satisfied that the interest rate has not increased since the account was 
closed.
I appreciate Mrs M says shes made more complaints to Aqua  than it has records of and has 
made a number of calls to it. Im satisfied that Aqua  has responded to two complaints in 
2016 and 2019. And I would have expected Aqua to have kept a record of any other 
complaints or calls if they were made and for Mrs M to have provided evidence  of those calls 
or details  of what she complained about.  So I think on balance that Aqua did deal with the 
Ref: DRN11728142complaints it was aware of and Ive not seen any evidence that it ignored any other 
complaints or Mrs Ms contact with it.
Overall, as Im satisfied Aqua has dealt fairly with this complaint, then I cant  ask it to write 
off the account   balance  Mrs M owes it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1172814