K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his landlord insurance  
policy following a theft of contents  by his tenant.
background
Mr H had a landlord  insurance  policy for the property he rented out to his brother. In 2018 his 
brother moved out of the property without  warning and stole  a number of items. Mr H made a 
claim on the policy for the theft. He also had to change the locks on the property as his 
brother had taken  his key with him, he also claimed  for this.
AXA declined his claim for the theft as it said Mr H hadnt complied with the terms of the 
policy. It said there were a number of requirements in the policy that had to be met in order 
for a theft claim to be paid. These included completing a credit check  prior to granting the 
tenancy. AXA said that as Mr H hadnt  completed  a credit check  for his brother, the claim 
wasnt covered.
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He said as the tenant had been his brother, there  would be no 
reason to carry out a credit check.  He said it would be a breach of data protection  law to 
provide AXA with the credit check information without his brothers consent anyway. He also 
said the relevant  term was buried  in the policy document and it should have been made 
clearer. Finally  he said the service AXA had provided had been poor as there had been  a 
number of delays.  He made a complaint to AXA.
AXA partially upheld  Mr Hs complaint. It accepted that the service  it provided could have 
been better and apologised. But it didnt agree that the policy terms were unclear. It also said 
that tenants would usually  consent to sharing the credit  check  information at the point the 
check is carried out, so there would  be no data breach.
Mr H wasnt happy with AXAs response. He said it wasnt fair for AXA to rely on a term 
thats buried in the policy. He brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and partially upheld the complaint. She said she 
thought AXA had acted fairly by declining the claim but thought it should reimburse Mr H for 
the replacement  of the locks and pay him £100  compensation for the poor service.
AXA agreed to this settlement. However  Mr H didnt agree. He said, as he had never  
completed a credit check, he had not had any insurance from day one as he could never  
have made  a successful  claim. He said if AXA isnt going to pay the claim then it should 
refund all of the premiums  he has paid. He asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has said that as Mr H didnt  comply with the policy terms, policy cover wouldnt be 
provided. It states in the policy as follows:
We will cover  you for malicious damage and loss by theft caused by your tenants provided  
that you
Ref: DRN194990321. Carry out internal and external inspections of the building at least every 3 months  or as 
frequently as is permitted  under the tenancy agreement and
a) Maintain a log of those inspections of the building at least every  3 months or as frequently 
as is permitted under the tenancy  agreement
b) Carry out a 6 month  management check of the inspections log
2. Obtain satisfactory credit references  from a licensed credit referencing  agency prior to 
granting the tenancy having given permission for this information to be released in the event 
of a claim
3. Obtain and record details of your tenants  bank account and verify those details  by 
receiving rental payments  from that account
4. Obtain and retain  a written formal identification  of any prospective tenant
So its clear there are a number of requirements that need  to be met in order for cover to be 
provided for theft by a tenant. Mr H accepts that he didnt meet  all of these requirements. So 
I can understand why AXA declined the claim. However I need  to decide if AXA have acted 
fairly and reasonably when applying the term in the circumstances.
Mr H said he didnt obtain credit references  as his tenant was his brother, so he didnt feel 
there was a need. I can appreciate why Mr H felt this way. It is more likely that he would 
have an idea of his brothers financial situation compared  to a tenant he hadnt met before.  
However AXA is entitled to decide the level of risk it will take on when providing a policy. 
And, in order to mitigate the chance  of theft or malicious damage, it requires a number of 
checks to be carried out. I dont think thats unreasonable.  Mr H thought he was mitigating 
his risk by having his brother as a tenant. And may have therefore concluded he wouldnt 
need to make the checks he might have done with another tenant. However that was his 
decision and his risk. And it doesnt change AXAs own requirements to manage its risk. I 
therefore think AXA have  acted fairly  by applying the term in this instance. 
Mr H says that the term isnt clear  enough in the policy document  and it wasnt  pointed  out to 
him when  he took out the policy.  The term is laid out in the theft and malicious damage 
section of the policy. Its also a requirement  under two other policy  terms, so appears in the 
document three times.  Although I appreciate it is not included  in the policy  schedule  or at the 
front of the policy,  I dont agree that the term isnt made clear. There are a number of terms 
in the policy  that require  conditions to be met in order  to have cover.  It wouldnt be feasible 
for AXA to include  all of these on the first page or in the policy schedule. There is an onus on 
the insured to check the policy to make  sure it fits their needs  and that they comply with the 
terms, as with any contract. 
Mr H says that he thinks the term is very unusual in a policy,  so this is why it should  be 
stated at the front of the policy booklet.  From  my experience, this isnt an unusual term for a 
landlord policy. However I appreciate this may not be unusual to me as I review  a lot of 
insurance cases and policies. I therefore checked a random selection  of six different landlord 
policies from six different insurers excluding AXA. Three included the term and three didnt. I 
therefore dont  agree that the term is unusual or specific to this policy.  I therefore think AXA 
has done enough to make it clear in the policy.
Mr H says that as he didnt obtain credit  references  from the beginning of the tenancy, he 
hasnt had any insurance cover from the start. He says therefore  AXA should  refund all his 
premiums. I have considered this and I dont agree. Not complying with a term of a policy, 
isnt the same as not having insurance cover. If Mr H had made a claim under a different 
section of the policy that didnt have this requirement, then the claim would have been 
Ref: DRN19499033considered in line with the relevant part of the policy.  For example, in this case  AXA has 
agreed to cover the claim  for Mr H changing the locks. This is because  it is covered under a 
different section of the policy. Its Mr Hs responsibility to ensure he complies with the terms 
of the policy. So I wont be asking AXA to refund his premiums. 
Regarding the claim for changing  the locks. AXA has now agreed to reimburse  Mr H for the 
amount paid for the new lock. I agree this is fair. Mr H has asked  to be reimbursed for the 
time it took him to change the locks himself. However this is difficult to quantify.  And Mr H 
chose to change  the locks  himself  rather than paying for a lock smith to carry out the work, 
that could have been quantified. So I wont be asking AXA to pay anymore.
Our investigator recommended AXA pay £100  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience it has caused Mr H when handling  his claim. I agree that this amount is fair in 
the circumstances for the reasons given by our investigator.
I therefore agree with the recommendations made by our investigator. I require AXA to 
reimburse Mr H £70.44 for the new lock. I also require AXA to pay 8% simple interest on the 
amount from the date he bought the lock until the date the amount is paid, to make up for the 
time Mr H has been without the money. I also require AXA to pay £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused.   As I think AXA have  acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining the claim for the theft of contents, I won't  be asking it to do anything differently in 
relation to that claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I require AXA Insurance UK Plc:
Reimburse Mr H £70.44 for the new lock if it hasnt already done so, and pay interest 
at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss until the date settlement is paid.
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused him, if it 
hasnt already done so. This should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them  that 
Mr H has accepted  my final decision.  If AXA Insurance  UK Plc pay later than this 
they must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers it should deduct income tax from any 8% interest 
element of my award it may do so, but should give Mr H the necessary certificate.
Ref: DRN1949903