K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
Mr G took out PPI in 2002 when he applied for a credit card.  Both were done  at the same 
time using  an online  application.
At the time Mr G was employed  in IT and he told us he had more  than three months but less 
than six months worth  of pay in savings. He also said he had no health  problems at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, serious illness and 
death  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay up to 10% of Mr Gs credit  
card balance in the event  of a successful claim for accident and sickness or unemployment. 
At the time,  it cost around 74 pence  per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
In summary  Mr Gs representative raised  the following  complaint  points  on his behalf:
Mr G was unaware he had PPI  he doesnt remember selecting it
he wouldnt have bought it if hed known about the limited terms and conditions
he didnt use his card for a period  of time and was surprised to find out later on that 
the balance hadnt  reduced  by much  and this was because  of PPI
he didnt have contractual sick pay entitlement  but his employer was generous
he was in a secure  job and in good  health  so he didnt need  the cover
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said they 
thought Mr G chose  to take out the cover and there wasnt anything  to indicate it was wrong  
or inappropriate for him. But they said Barclays offer to pay back  some of what Mr G paid for 
PPI in relation  to high commission and profit share  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Gs representative disagrees.  Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website. And while I dont intend to set that out in this decision,  Ive 
taken into account  whats relevant here in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, and carefully considered the information provided by both parties to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Mr G know  he had a choice?
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr G that PPI was optional. Mr G says he was unaware 
he had PPI  he doesnt remembering selecting it.
Ref: DRN15720392Ive seen example  internet screen shots that Im satisfied Mr G would have likely seen when 
he applied  for his credit card. These allowed him to select whether he wanted to include PPI 
with his credit card or not  it gave Yes and No options. 
Ive also seen nothing  to persuade me that the Yes box was pre-ticked  Mr G had to select 
one of the options to be able to proceed  with his credit card application.
Barclays says and in the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, I accept that PPI 
was added when  Mr G applied for the credit card.
So taking everything into account, I think more likely than not Barclays presented  the policy  
to Mr G as being optional and he agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure. I think its 
likely Mr G has simply forgotten  that he chose it, which  given how long ago things  happened,  
isnt surprising.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.
I accept the sale took place  online  Barclays records show this and Ive not seen anything 
which makes me think things happened differently.  I cant  see that there  was any direct 
interaction between  Mr G and a Barclays representative that would  have provided  Barclays 
with the opportunity to give Mr G advice about  the policy.  And Ive not seen anything  within  
the online application which makes me think that Mr G was led to reasonably  believe that 
hed been given advice. Rather  Barclays alerted  Mr G to the fact that he could  take out the 
policy and gave him information about it.
So looking  at what happened when  Barclays sold Mr G the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable or right for Mr G. But it did 
have to give him enough clear and timely information about  the policy so he could make an 
informed decision about it.
the information
Barclays has provided us with screenshots it says Mr G would have seen, together  with the policy  
terms and conditions  which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to policies like Mr 
Gs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr G at the time, I dont think Barclays  gave Mr G the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy.
As Ive said,  this was an online sale. I can see that Barclays described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against, accident, sickness and unemployment. It also informed Mr G that 
the policy helped  cover his card repayments at the cost of 74p per £100 of his monthly 
statement balance.
I think the information provided  would have given Mr G a broad sense of the main  things the 
policy covered. But it was Barclays responsibility  to draw to Mr Gs attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations, which might be relevant to his decision. 
Ref: DRN15720393Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr G, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy.
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr G? To what extent did Mr G suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr G. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr G suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr G would have 
still taken out the policy  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Mr G to weigh up in his own mind 
the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work  it wasnt Barclays  job to do this for him.
As Ive found above, Mr G chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. Im mindful 
too that Mr Gs representative told us that Mr G received the card and went  on a bit of a 
spending  spree  So it may have been the case that Mr G intended  to do this at the outset 
giving him a balance to protect almost immediately   and this was in his mind when he 
chose to take out PPI. 
But I accept Mr G made this decision based  on incomplete information. So Ive gone  on to 
consider Mr Gs circumstances  at the time to help me decide  whether he wouldve still taken 
out PPI in any event.  And having done so, I think its likely he wouldve still gone ahead with 
PPI had Barclays done anything more. I say this because:
Mr G was eligible for the cover;
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt cover such as existing medical  conditions  or unusual employment  
circumstances.
Mr G says he had some  savings. And says that although his employer  didnt offer 
contractual sick pay, his employer was generous. But as Mr G says, he wasnt 
guaranteed to get any sick pay if he was off work  ill. The policy wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months per claim and given  the 10% monthly benefit,  it had the potential  to 
clear the outstanding balance in full. And if the insured risks became a reality  it might  
also have meant  Mr G didnt  have to touch  his savings or he couldve used them  to 
help meet other ongoing and necessary expenditure.
As I said above, it appears Mr G may have intended  to put a not insignificant balance  
on to the card straightaway. So I think that despite  his existing means  the policy 
couldve been useful  to him and wouldve helped him out financially at what  would 
likely be a difficult time.
Mr G didnt know everything  about  the cost, but it appears  to have been affordable.
Ref: DRN15720394So, I think Mr G had some good reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him; 
he was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions could have  proved useful to him should  the insured risks have become a reality.
Mr Gs representative has said that for a long period of time Mr G was only making  the 
minimum payment on his card. It says that when Mr G reviewed his account  later on he was 
surprised the balance hadnt  reduced  by much  and this was because of the PPI.
If Mr G was only making the minimum payment on the card, then after the application of 
interest each month, this of itself wouldve meant that his balance  wouldnt have reduced by 
a great  deal. Ive already said above that I dont think  Mr G was told all of the information 
about the cost of the PPI  including how the premiums would be charged.  But for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think more  likely  than not that Mr G would still have taken  out 
PPI if Barclays  had properly informed him.
conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr G would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what he thought he was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time, notwithstanding  the savings he says he had at the time. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr G would have taken out the policy  in 
any event. 
 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN15720395what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr G any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
So Barclays  should  re-work  the credit card account and pay back  to Mr G the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr G 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1572039