K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs D are unhappy about  the way Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited  has dealt 
with a claim for escape of water under their home  insurance policy.
background
Mr K and Mrs D took out a home  insurance policy with Admiral on 15 September  2017 
shortly before completing the purchase  of their property. They were due to move  in on 
30 September. Then they decided to get the property  rewired before moving in. 
On 3 October they made  a claim to Admiral after a pipe in their attic burst.  They arranged for 
an emergency plumber  to stop the leak. Admiral sent a surveyor  that day to assess  the 
damage. It also queried with Mr K and Mrs D why they hadnt told it about the works and that 
they werent moving in straight away.  It said this was in breach of conditions in the policy. 
Mr K and Mrs D were  very upset  by this. They instructed a solicitor  to reply to Admiral on 
their behalf.  On 10 November Admiral  accepted  the claim.
Admiral offered £2,321.87 to settle  the claim, based on the surveyors  report.  Mr K and 
Mrs D say that Admiral couldnt  tell them  when  the works would be carried  out if they used 
its builders. They were also told they werent  entitled  to alternative accommodation. They 
say they had to stay with various friends  because there was no water  in the house. Admiral  
later agreed to pay a disturbance allowance at £20 a day from the date of the loss to 
6 December and for them  to stay in a hotel  from 6 to 16 December.
Mr K and Mrs D complained to Admiral.  The following is a summary of the main things they 
were unhappy  with:
a mix-up which meant they couldnt access their policy documents  online;
delay in Admiral providing  a copy of its surveyors report;
poor claims handling; and
Admiral not providing alternative accommodation  until late in the claim;
They thought Admiral should pay them what it would have cost for them  to stay in a hotel 
from the day the pipe burst, pay their emergency  plumbers bill and their legal expenses in 
addition to compensation. Admiral accepted areas  of its service had fallen below the 
standard it would  expect  and it offered £350  compensation.  On referral to this service our 
investigator thought  that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr K and Mrs D didnt agree, the matter has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has acknowledged that it hasnt handled  this claim well. What I need  to decide is 
whether its offer of £350 compensation for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It must have been very frustrating for Mrs D that she couldnt  access  her policy  documents 
online via a secure link just when she needed to see them. But a sample  policy was 
available online and the issue was rectified  the same day Mrs D told Admiral  about it.
Ref: DRN12454142Given the circumstances of Mr K and Mrs D not having moved in to the property because of 
repair works, I dont think it was unreasonable of Admiral to make some  further  enquiries  
before accepting the claim. I accept that this would have been upsetting for Mr K and Mrs D 
who must have been very worried that their claim wouldnt be accepted. But I dont think 
thats Admirals fault.
Mr K and Mrs D first asked for a copy of Admirals surveyors report  on 6 October. When  
they chased, they were passed  back and forth between Admiral and its claims handler. No-
one took ownership  of this or told Mr K and Mrs D that they wouldnt be sent a costed 
breakdown of the works as they expected. I think the confusion about  this would have 
caused a degree  of upset unnecessarily.
Mr K and Mrs D were  entitled under their policy to temporary accommodation if their home 
wasnt fit to live in due to the water  leak. I can understand  why Admiral didnt pay for them to 
stay elsewhere until it had accepted their claim especially since  they werent living  in the 
property when the damage happened.  But it accepted  the claim on 10 November 2017. So I 
think it should have  considered giving  Mr K and Mrs D alternative  accommodation from that 
point. I havent  seen any evidence that they stayed in a hotel at their own expense  from then 
to the date when Admiral  agreed hotel accommodation. Given that Admiral  did pay a 
disturbance allowance for the whole time they werent  staying in a hotel, I cant see that 
theyve suffered a financial  loss. But they did suffer some inconvenience.  Ill take that into 
account when  looking at the amount of compensation I think theyre due. 
Ive looked at the general way Admiral  has handled this claim.  It didnt  always  respond 
properly or as promised   in one case there was a delay of three working days  despite a 
promise to respond within  24 hours.  It also took six working days to respond to the letter 
from Mr K and Mrs Ds solicitor giving the information it had requested. In total I think 
Admiral caused a delay of 18 working  days in the course of this short  claim.  
When we award payments for unnecessary trouble and upset caused  by an insurer, we look 
at the impact  on the people involved.  We dont  award money for each individual  failing but 
review the entire claim handling to decide what would  be fair compensation. In this case  
whilst its clear the service from Admiral was poor in several respects and had a significant 
emotional impact on Mr K and Mrs D, overall Im satisfied that the sum of £350 is appropriate 
in the circumstances to compensate them for the trouble and upset Admiral  caused them.
Mr K and Mrs Ds policy covers them for costs if damage  is caused  to their property in 
finding the source of a leak. It doesnt cover the cost of fixing the leak.  Ive checked their 
emergency plumbers  invoice. It just refers to fixing the leak.  So I dont think  Admiral was 
liable to pay this cost.
Given the risk of their claim  not being  accepted  and the fact that English isnt their first 
language, I can understand  why Mr K and Mrs D felt they needed help with pursuing  their 
claim. But I dont think  that necessarily  means  that Admiral should  pay their solicitors costs. 
There werent complicated legal issues involved  Admiral was simply asking for fairly 
straightforward information. There were other options such  as Citizens Advice  which 
wouldnt have cost anything. I dont think it would  be fair to require Admiral  to pay the cost of 
proving that there was a valid claim. And it wasnt liable to pay them under the legal 
expenses part of their policy.
Ref: DRN12454143my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245414