K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained about Society  of Lloyds (SOL) handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to SOL includes their agents.
In bringing his complaint Mr I has been  represented by his son. But, for ease, I will refer to 
Mr I throughout this decision. And reference to what Mr I said includes the comments  his son 
made on his behalf.
background
Mr I took out his car insurance with SOL through  a broker. His policy started  in August 2018. 
Mr Is car was stolen in December 2018,  so he claimed on his policy.
SOL investigated the claim and voided (treated as though it had never come into existence)  
the policy. SOL said the reason for that was when taking out the policy  Mr I gave a wrong 
address as his home address. SOL said had they known his correct address they would 
have never  offered him insurance.
Mr I complained about SOLs decision.  He also complained about their service,  in particular 
the way the investigator instructed by SOL carried out the interview in January 2019. SOL 
didnt uphold  Mr Is complaint. He therefore  brought his complaint  to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt that SOL had treated Mr I fairly. But as Mr I didn't agree 
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
SOL have said that what Mr I did by not declaring  his correct address amounted to, what is 
known in the insurance industry, as either a deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation.  And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do if there is a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation. It says that insurers:
may avoid  (treat as though it never existed)  the insurance contract and refuse all 
claims, and
need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it would 
be unfair  to the consumer  to retain  them.
For reasons I will explain,  I think it was reasonable for SOL to reach the conclusion  they did 
and to void the policy. When Mr I first took out his policy  he was asked to give his address. 
Mr I gave his sons  address. So, SOL was led to believe that Mr I lived at that address and 
that his car was kept at that address when not in use. SOL based their decision  to insure 
Mr I on that information. I think the question asking  Mr I to give his address was clear.
I have also seen various policy documents that were sent to Mr I since  2015  every time he 
renewed his policy.  Those  documents include the policy schedule, policy certificate,  
Proposal Form and Statement of Information. All those documents  had Mr Is address as his 
Ref: DRN16433742sons address. The Proposal Forms  and Statements  of Information gave warnings that Mr I 
should read the information carefully  to ensure everything was correct. They also warned 
that any incorrect information could lead to the policy  being  cancelled or voided  and any 
claims not being paid.  But by not correcting any information Mr I confirmed the address  SOL 
had for him on the documents was his address.
But on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  that Mr Is address  wasnt  the address he gave 
SOL. The following evidence convinced SOL that Mr I lived at another  address (the other 
address):
His photo card driving licence issued in October 2017 had the other address on it.
Subsequent  checks against the electoral role and other databases found no record  of 
Mr I at his sons  address but a very strong  match for him at the other address with a 
residency period  spanning from 1998 till the present day.
SOLs investigator spoke with neighbours at the other address who said they knew  
Mr I well and confirmed that he lived at the other address and that he had a 
designated parking  space outside  which Mr I used.  
Mr Is letter of 20 September 2019 in response  to SOLs  final response letter (FRL)  
said: The [policy] address is that of my [sons name], I own and reside at [the other  
address] but since the passing  of my wife in 2014  I have  spent more  time at [my 
sons address]... He has accepted  the other  address  is his and that he spends time 
there.
I therefore think Mr I made a misrepresentation. And I think  SOLs  decision that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless was reasonable.
I have seen SOLs underwriting criteria. Each  insurer sets their own underwriting  criteria which 
are the rules  they follow to determine  whether or not they will provide someone with cover.  
SOLs rules that applied to Mr Is policy said that they wouldnt have  insured  him had they 
known his correct  address.  And as I think Mr I knew which address he lived at I think  the 
reason for his misrepresentation  was either deliberate or reckless.  SOL were  therefore entitled 
to void the policy;  not pay Mr Is claim for the theft of his car; and they didnt have to refund his 
premium.
Finally, Mr I said that when SOLs investigator interviewed him at home  the investigator was 
rude and disrespectful  towards Mr and his family. He also made Mr I feel like a criminal. The 
investigator disputed  that he acted inappropriately.  There is no recording of that interview so I 
dont know what exactly took place. But I think that given the investigator  had to ask some  
difficult and probing  questions, its possible Mr I got upset  as he felt he wasnt  believed. But on 
the available  evidence I dont think the investigator did anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN16433743my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject 
my decision  before 1 July 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1643374