K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about the way RAC Insurance Limited  dealt with her when she sought  
assistance under her Breaking  down in Europe  policy. 
background
Mrs F bought a car insurance policy which included additional European Breakdown Cover.  
The underwriter of the breakdown cover policy is RAC insurance Limited.
In August  2018  she and her family with others travelled to Europe. They were travelling 
across two vehicles. Mrs F and her husband have six children. Seven of her family were 
travelling in their vehicle. 
On the way Mrs Fs car broke  down.  The patrol  agent couldnt repair it at the roadside. 
Mrs F made a series  of complaints to RAC  about the way it handled her request for help.
RAC said that there were delays attending and arranging a hotel because there was an 
event on locally  and it was difficult to find accommodation to meet their needs. The hire car 
company  when  a seven seater  was located  broke down while  delivering  the hire car.
Mrs Fs car was recovered  to a local garage  but this was over 1000km away  from their 
destination. Mrs F drove the hire car to their onward destination for the remainder of their holiday. 
During this time, Mrs F was in contact regularly  with RAC. RAC said it would pay the costs of 
the repairs in full  even  though they were for more than the contribution the policy said it would  
pay. The garage carried out the repairs to Mrs Fs car. But it wouldnt accept  payment  other  than 
cash. This caused  problems as RAC tried to locate  an agent to assist  in delivering payment. 
RAC extended the use of the hire car by 11 days beyond  the limit of the policy.  It also 
extended hotel  accommodation which it reimbursed Mrs F for. 
RAC paid £149  toward food costs and offered  Mrs F a further £151 to bring the total 
compensation to £300. 
Mrs F asked  us to look at her complaint.  She wanted £50,000 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  RAC had caused  her. She said RAC had ruined her holiday. She said 
she has a disabled son and there  was an elderly  relative in their group. Her son missed a 
hospital appointment because they were  delayed returning to the UK. 
The investigator thought overall RAC  had been  reasonable. He thought  the things that went  
wrong were  mostly out of RACs  control. 
Mrs F didnt  agree. She said they were  left in a dangerous area for over a day waiting for 
assistance when  the car broke  down.  They didnt know the language  of the country  theyd 
broken down in and the locals didnt speak English. They were without food, water and toilet  
facilities and they were all stuck because theyd travelled  together. So there were five other  
adults and a dog in addition to her family. 
Mrs F has provided  witness  statements  and photos. She doesnt agree the offer of 
compensation RAC fairly  reflects the upset caused. Mrs F said RAC has blamed  other  
parties but they are responsible.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN19997072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there were a number of things that happened which  made the breakdown  even 
worse for Mrs F and her family and group.  Ive considered whether RAC  acted  reasonably 
and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Fs policy with RAC says that it will arrange  for a local breakdown  service  or garage to 
come out and repair the vehicle. If the vehicle  cant be repaired immediately, it will be taken 
to the nearest garage.  In the event of a breakdown, RAC will pay a contribution  towards 
labour charges if its possible to repair the specified vehicle to enable  Mrs F to continue her 
journey on the same  day, or inspection fees to confirm the specified vehicle cannot  be 
repaired by the return travel date.
RAC says it will not cover  the cost of parts used at the roadside  to repair the car. And it wont 
cover the costs to repair the car if they dont enable it to continue its journey on the same  day. 
In other  words, RAC  wasnt responsible for the repair costs  for Mrs Fs car as it couldnt be 
repaired at the roadside. It was instead taken to a local garage.  
Mrs F was unhappy with the hotel accommodation  provided and the delay in arranging it. But 
RACs notes show  it made multiple attempts  to obtain accommodation  but was unable to 
find anywhere locally that would accommodate Mrs Fs family. And there  was a music event 
on which meant availability was reduced  even further. 
RAC was having  difficulty obtaining a seven seater hire car as availability was scarce. When 
it did obtain one, the hire car company broke down and this caused a delay. 
These are things outside of RACs control. Im satisfied that it did its best to recover  Mrs F 
and her family, find accommodation  and a hire car as soon as possible. 
Mrs F continued her journey to her destination in the hire car. This was over 1000km away. 
During the next two to three weeks, there  was regular contact between Mrs F, RAC and the 
garage. Its clear from both parties  that the garage caused considerable difficulties in first 
diagnosing the fault and arranging repairs   but significantly over its decision to refuse any 
payment for the repairs other than in cash. 
To assist Mrs F with the problems with the garage, RAC extended use of the hire car and 
provided additional accommodation while Mrs F and her family were  on their return journey 
to the garage. At one point RAC considered  paying  for Mrs F and her family  to return to the 
UK by flight. But the notes show this flagged up difficulties due to the size of the party.  
As the garage  confirmed the car was ready at around the same  time, RAC extended use of 
the hire car and arranged hotel accommodation for Mrs F and her family on their return  route  
to the UK via the garage.
Ref: DRN19997073Mrs Fs policy with RAC says something Ive seen in many European Breakdown Cover  
policies. It isnt unusual.  RAC says it will not cover:
Losses resulting  from delays, acts or failures of someone other  than us, for example, 
a garage, hotel, car hire company or carrier (when we instruct a garage,  hotel, care 
hire company or other similar company, we do not accept liability  for their acts or 
failures and it should not be interpreted that they are acting as agents for us).
Ive no doubt that Mrs F and her family were caused  inconvenience  by the breakdown.  And I 
understand how upset she feels about  her experience, particularly  when a hospital 
appointment was missed.  However, I think Mrs F may have thought her policy provided more 
cover than it did. I dont think RAC  is liable  for the majority of the issues that happened. I think  
Mrs F and her family  were  unlucky because of the location where she broke down. And the 
actions of third parties certainly contributed. But these were factors outside of RACs  control. 
I think RACs decision to pay the costs of the repairs in full was reasonable to compensate  
Mrs F and her family  for some of the delay caused  and inconvenience.  I appreciate  Mrs F 
has rejected RACs additional  offer to pay her a further £151. This is in addition to the £149 
its already paid her. But I think RACs done enough  to put things right.  Its for Mrs F to 
contact RAC  if she wants to accept the £151.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1999707