K821x#15complaint
Mrs C and the representatives of the late Mr Cs estate complain that Metro Bank PLC wont  
refund four payments totalling £4427.02 made  from Mr and Mrs Cs joint account  which  they 
have said they didnt authorise.
background
I attach my provisional decision, which forms part of my final decision. In my provisional  
findings, I said I intended to uphold this complaint.  Mrs C has contacted us to accept my 
provisional findings. Metro Bank has also been in touch to say it also accepts the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my previous findings,  I see no reason to change my conclusions 
as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained,  I uphold Mrs C and the estate of Mr Cs complaint against  
Metro Bank  PLC.
putting things  right
In putting things right for Mrs C and the estate  of Mr C, I direct Metro  Bank  PLC to:
-refund  the disputed  transactions  to the value  of £4427.02; 
-refund  any fees or charges that Mr and Mrs C may have incurred  on their current  
account that directly  resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed  payments;
-pay interest on that amount at 8% simple interest per year,  from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.  If Metro Bank  deducts  tax from the interest  
element of this award, it should provide Mrs C and the estate of Mr C with the 
appropriate tax deduction certificate;  and
-pay Mrs C the sum of £250  in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
Metro Banks handling  of the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C and the 
representatives of the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14449792copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs C and the representatives of the late Mr Cs estate complain that Metro Bank PLC wont  refund four 
payments totalling £4427.02 made from Mr and Mrs Cs joint account which  they say they didnt authorise.
background
In October 2017, Mr and Mrs C were the victim  of a scam.  Based on the submissions from both parties 
I understand the scam occurred  as follows.
Mr and Mrs C held two joint accounts with Metro Bank. Mr C recalled making an online transfer from one of those 
accounts on 5 October 2017,  but not being  able to log in correctly at the first attempt.  On 9 October  2017, Mrs C 
received a text message  on her mobile from Metro Bank  saying  it wanted to speak  to her about activity on her 
account that it considered possibly suspicious. She called Metro  Bank and was asked to verify  shed  made a 
recent transaction. Mrs C recognised the transaction and confirmed it was one shed made. 
The following day, Mr and Mrs C received a call to their home phone from someone  again claiming to be calling 
from Metro  Bank. Unfortunately,  this turned out not to be the case. Its not in dispute that what then happened 
was an act of fraud. So I will use the term fraudster  throughout  to refer to the third party involved.
The fraudster  asked Mr C to confirm his name and postcode. The caller then asked if they had made a recent 
transaction of £54.01 at a specific supermarket. Mrs C took over the call at this point  and confirmed the details of 
the transaction  matched one they had made. The caller told her the transaction had been taken from the account 
twice in error. 
Mrs C was told that the caller  would arrange  a refund  of the duplicate transaction. She was told he would send 
through a text message. The fraudster read out the last four digits of the mobile number  to which it was being 
sent  which corresponded to Mr Cs mobile number.  The fraudster said Mrs C should read out the passcode  to 
allow the refund to be processed.
Mrs C received the text message and read out the passcode to the caller. He said he hadnt heard the number  
correctly and said he would send a second text message, with a new number. This was received, and Mrs C read 
out the second number to the fraudster.  
Mrs C says at that point she queried why the message  said something about setting up a new payee. She was 
told this was in order to enable the refund  to their account. She was told the refund would  appear in their account 
within a couple of days, and the call was ended there. 
When the call had ended, Mrs C checked her banking app, and saw that the transaction  amount  of £54.01 was 
actually showing as being debited three times.  She noticed two names connected with these transactions, which 
she didnt recognise.  Mrs C called her branch  of Metro Bank immediately who transferred her to Metro  Banks call 
centre. Mrs C says the call to the branch began at 18:26. Metro  Banks records show her call was subsequently 
answered in its main call centre at 18:33.
 
It seems that whilst talking to Mr and Mrs C, the fraudster accessed Mr Cs online  banking facility,  and through 
that had accessed  their joint accounts. Metro  Bank says that in order to do so the fraudster wouldve needed 
Mr Cs 12 digit customer number, 3 digits from his security number, and 3 characters  from his password.
Whilst in Mr Cs online account, the fraudster set up two new account payee  details. The bank says this 
generated two One Time Passcode (OTP)  messages to Mr Cs mobile phone. Metro  Bank says these messages 
read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode to setup a new payee is XXXXXXXX.  If you did not setup a new payee  then 
please call us on XXXXXXXX.
Shortly afterwards, two payments of £54.01  were  made to each newly created payee. The fraudster then made a 
payment of £2150 to one of the payees. Lastly,  following a transfer to clear  the majority of the balance of the 
second joint account,  the fraudster made a transfer of £2169 to the second new payee. This left both joint 
accounts with only nominal balances.
Ref: DRN14449793Below is a list of these events:
5 October Mr C logs into his online banking account after a failed first attempt.  He makes 
a valid transfer out of the account.
9 October
11:46Mrs C receives a text alert message sent by Metro  Bank  relating to a recent  
transaction. Metro Bank said it needed to speak to her about some potentially 
suspicious activity on your card.
9 October
11:47Mrs C calls Metro Bank and confirms that the transaction it had highlighted was 
genuine.
10 October 
08:38The fraudster  logs in to Mr and Mrs Cs online  banking  and views the accounts.
10 October
17:13  17:55The fraudster  logs into Mr and Mrs Cs online  banking  and views the accounts.  
There are two failed log in attempts.
10 October
17:56The fraudster  successfully logs into online banking and views the accounts.
10 October
18:10The fraudster  calls Mr and Mrs Cs home phone  number.
18:16 Metro Bank  sends an OTP to Mr Cs mobile number.
18:17 The fraudster  creates the first new payee.
18:18 Metro Bank  sends a second  OTP to Mr Cs mobile number.
18:18 The fraudster  creates the second new payee.
18:19 Transfers of £54.01 are sent to each new payee.
18:26 Mrs C checks  the account  on her banking  app, and then telephones her 
branch.
18:28 A transfer of £2150 is sent to the first new payee.
18:28-18:29 Transfers totalling £829 are made from Mr and Mrs Cs other  account into the 
account being used to send the transfers to the new payees.
18:29 A transfer of £2169 is sent to the second payee.
18:33 Mrs C is connected to the Metro  Bank  call centre and its established that they 
have been  the victim of a scam.
Mrs C contacted Metro Bank to report her concerns  at 18:26 on 10 October  2017. This was approximately two 
minutes before  the two larger transfers were made out of the account. 
Metro Bank  contacted the recipient bank  by email at 09:01 on 11 October  the following  morning. Metro Bank 
says that was the earliest time it was able to make contact  with the recipient bank, due to the recipient banks 
working hours.
The recipient bank responded  later that day to confirm that no funds remained in the receiving  accounts. The 
recipient bank  has since confirmed that all funds in the receiving accounts were transferred out by 20:17 on 10 
October  before Metro  Bank made contact.
my provisional  findings
The rules of our service  mean that I have  to determine  this complaint  by reference  to what  I consider  to be fair 
and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case. When considering whats  fair and reasonable I am required 
to take into account; relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; 
and where appropriate  what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive summarised below what I consider to be the relevant regulations and account  terms, and Ive taken them into 
account when  deciding  this complaint.
relevant considerations
Metro Bank,  as an FCA regulated firm, provided a current deposit  account. As such the FCAs overarching 
Principles for Businesses apply including  the requirement  to pay due regard to a customers interests  and treat 
them fairly  (Principle 6). 
The transfers from Mr and Mrs Cs accounts were  made in October 2017. So of particular  relevance to my 
decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009). I think these sections of PSR 2009  are of particular  relevance  here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
Ref: DRN1444979455.(1) A payment  transaction  is to be regarded as having  been authorised by the payer for the purposes  of this 
Part only if the payer has given its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment  service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment  service  user to whom a payment  instrument  has been issued must 
(a)use the payment instrument in accordance  with the Terms and Conditions governing its issue and 
use; and
(b)notify the payment service  provider in the agreed manner  and without  undue  delay  on becoming 
aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment service user must on receiving a payment  instrument take all reasonable steps  to keep  its 
personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction;  or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment  service  provider to prove that the payment transaction  was authenticated, accurately 
recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts  and not affected by a technical breakdown  or some 
other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment  service  provider  is able 
to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having  authorised  an executed payment  transaction,  the use of a 
payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is not in itself necessarily sufficient to prove either 
that
(a) the payment transaction was authorised  by the payer;  or
(b) the payer  acted fraudulently or failed  with intent or gross negligence  to comply  with regulation  57.
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised  payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations 59 [Notification of unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment  transactions]  and 60, 
where an executed  payment  transaction was not authorised in accordance with regulation 55, the payment  
service provider must immediately 
(a) refund  the amount  of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account to the state it would  have been in had the 
unauthorised payment  transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment transactions
62.(1) Subject to paragraphs  (2) , the payer is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any losses incurred  in 
respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising 
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed  to keep  the personalised security  features of the payment instrument safe, from 
the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment  transaction  where the 
payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence failed  to comply  with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must be given  in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure,  agreed between the payer and its payment service provider . The payment services directive itself 
(which PSR 2009  implements) says In the absence of such consent, a payment  transaction  shall be considered 
to be unauthorised. But neither PSR 2009 nor the FCAs 2013 guidance on PSR 2009 provide a definition of 
consent. 
Ref: DRN14449795I therefore think  its fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common definition of consent, 
which is to give permission for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be assessed on a case-by-
case basis taking into account  all the circumstances.  The term is not defined in PSR 2009,  nor in the first 
Payment Services  Directive.  However, recital 72 of the second Payment Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible  negligence or gross  negligence  on the part of the payment  service  user, account 
should be taken  of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree of alleged negligence should  generally  be 
evaluated according to national law. However, while the concept of negligence implies a breach of a duty of care,  
gross negligence should  mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example,  keeping  the credentials  used  to authorise a payment  transaction  beside the payment 
instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable  by third parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret  gross  negligence to be a higher standard than the standard  of negligence  under  common law. 
The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
Although neither  of these is directly relevant  to this complaint,  they are of value as a relevant consideration in the 
absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they inform the meaning of a concept that 
has been  in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial  contract  context, Mance J in Red Sea Tankers Ltd v 
Papachristidis (The Ardent) [1997] 2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:  
If the matter is viewed according to purely English  principles of construction,  Gross negligence is clearly 
intended to represent something more fundamental than failure to exercise proper skill and/or  care constituting 
negligence as a matter  of ordinary language  and general impression,  the concept of gross negligence seems 
to me capable  of embracing  not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved, but also 
serious disregard  of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. But as I have described above, gross 
negligence suggests a lack of care that goes  significantly  beyond ordinary negligence. So I have to consider 
whether what Mr and Mrs C did fell so far below the standard expected of a reasonable person that it would  be 
fair to say they failed with gross  negligence to keep their personalised security details  safe or to comply  with the 
Terms and Conditions of the account.
the Terms & Conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs accounts 
Metro Bank  has provided  a copy of the terms and conditions that applied  at the time the transfers  were made 
from Mr and Mrs Cs accounts.  In its submissions,  Metro Bank has highlighted certain sections, including:
5.2 Keeping  your security  information  safe
You will be responsible  for any instructions given by you, or anyone authorised  to act on your behalf, from the 
time that you successfully pass through security to the time that you leave the relevant  service. It is your 
responsibility to keep details of your cards and security details,  including PINs, security numbers,  access codes 
or passwords, safe and to make sure they cannot be used by anyone else or for fraudulent purposes.
 you must not reveal  your security details  to any other  person; []
I also consider section eight to be relevant to my consideration of this case. It outlines:
8.1Transactions you didnt authorise
We will be responsible for any payment transaction that you did not authorise, unless:
you have acted fraudulently;
you allowed another person to use your card, PIN or other security details who is not authorised by you;
you suspect your chequebook or cards have been stolen or lost (or intercepted before being delivered to you) 
and you deliberately or with gross negligence have not told us;
Ref: DRN14449796you have revealed to someone else, or written down, your PIN number or other security details used for 
online, mobile and telephone banking;
you didnt tell us that your mobile phone which is registered for SMS updates or mobile banking has been 
stolen;
you allow someone else to use your mobile phone or personal computer;
you change your mobile phone number, email address or other details which we use to contact you and do not 
update us;
(in the case of a cheque) you failed to take reasonable care when writing the cheque; or
you have entered the incorrect details when making a payment.
We will issue you with an immediate refund if you tell us that you did not authorise a payment transaction, unless 
the facts suggest that we may not be responsible for it and that it is appropriate for us to investigate the transaction 
further. We will investigate the transaction and decide as quickly as possible whether we are or may be 
responsible. You should tell us as soon as you notice any suspicious or unauthorised activity on your account in 
line with the section on Telling us about problems early...
If we issue you with a refund, we will pay you the amount of the unauthorised transaction and any resulting interest 
and charges applied to your account. If we have investigated the transaction, we will make sure that you do not suffer 
any loss because of the delay in reaching our decision.
If we then prove that we are not in fact responsible for an unauthorised transaction, we will explain to you how we 
have reached this decision and we may take from your account the amount of any refund or other payment we 
have made to you.
key questions
In my view, the above relevant  considerations mean that if the transactions  were unauthorised, it would be fair 
and reasonable  for Metro Bank to refund the amount stolen from Mr and Mrs C, unless Mr or Mrs C with intent or 
gross negligence, failed to comply with the Terms  and Conditions of the account and the obligations set out in 
Regulation 57.
Metro Bank  responded to Mr and Mrs Cs report of the scam in a letter dated 23 October  2017. It said:
it is our position that it was reasonable for us to assume that the disputed  transaction  was either 
authorised by you or given  the above, that you have  not taken adequate care of your security details,  
contrary to our terms and conditions (5.2), as such, we are not obliged to provide a refund on this 
occasion.
In its final response,  Metro Bank  said:
the case  was declined by our fraud department on the basis that the information provided over the 
phone was account sensitive. The necessary steps were taken when you advised us of the transactions  
you did not recognise however,  as you confirmed  the details  over the phone  and cannot remember  the 
history of your online log in attempts we were unable  to uphold your case. We would like to apologise  for 
any inconvenience caused  by this situation.
I think, therefore, that there are two key questions relevant to my consideration about what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr C or Mrs C? and;
2.If they werent, can Metro Bank demonstrate  that Mr C or Mrs C failed  with intent or gross negligence  
either to comply with the Terms and Conditions of their accounts or to keep their personalised  security 
details safe?
Though there is naturally some  overlap of events when answering these two questions, I will approach them in 
this order.
Ref: DRN14449797were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr C or Mrs C?
On the balance of evidence,  Im not persuaded that Mr C or Mrs C authorised these transactions  from their 
accounts. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Mrs C gave the fraudster the OTPs. This was a crucial  step in the scam taking place. Without  
this step, new payees  couldnt have been created, and so the payments could not have been sent by the 
fraudster. 
But, I dont think it would be fair to conclude  that by disclosing  the OTPs,  Mr or Mrs C were consenting to the 
payments being made from their account.  As Ive said above, consent means giving  permission for something to 
happen. It follows that in the context of payment transactions, consent requires  the payer to have knowledge that 
a payment  transaction will be executed.  An account holder  who is unaware  a payment is being made, cant rightly  
be said to have given their consent to make a payment.
Im satisfied that at no time during their call with the fraudster were  either Mr or Mrs C aware that any payment  
transactions were going to be made from the account. Rather, Mrs C explains  she was clearly told handing  over 
the passcodes  would  allow  her to be refunded for a payment taken in error. On balance,  I dont  think Mr or Mrs C 
consented to or authorised a transaction to be made from their accounts.
So, my starting point here is that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to be held liable for the 
transactions  which I think its more likely than not were unauthorised  unless they failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with the terms  and conditions of their relationship with Metro Bank and the obligations set 
out in the PSR 2009.
did Mr and Mrs C fail with gross negligence either  to comply with the Terms and Conditions of the 
account, or to keep their personalised security details  safe?
It is not enough to say Mr and Mrs C were  grossly negligent simply because they shared  the OTP details  or other 
security details  with the fraudster. Careful consideration needs to be given to the circumstances  under  which 
those details were shared.
It seems most likely to me that Mr and Mrs C were initially tricked by some means into divulging security 
information. It may be this was through means of a fraudulent website, intended  to mirror the genuine Metro  Bank 
website, with the aim of capturing the security information  needed  by the fraudster to access  Mr and Mrs Cs 
online banking.
Mrs C was then tricked by a fraudster into handing over two OTP codes, which allowed two new payees to be 
created. However,  on the balance of evidence,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that, in falling  
for these tricks and in failing to keep their security  details  safe,  Mr and Mrs C were  grossly negligent. Ill explain 
why.
I dont know exactly by what means  the fraudster was initially able to gain access  to Mr and Mrs Cs online  
banking account.  Its widely accepted that these  types  of scam are increasingly  sophisticated in nature  and 
information can be obtained by a fraudster through various means and over a period of time before a scam takes 
place. 
Ref: DRN14449798As in many such cases, there is only limited information about the way the scam  occurred.  Im required to decide 
what I consider most likely  based on the evidence available.
Metro Bank  raised the possibility that Mr and Mrs Cs account details were  compromised  by means of a fake 
website into which either Mr or Mrs C inadvertently entered their login  credentials.  I agree  that this is a possibility,  
and one that might relate to Mr Cs recollections  of a failed  attempt at login  on 5 October 2017, five days before 
the fraudsters call. But even had this been the case, falling for such a phishing attempt  doesnt automatically  
amount to gross  negligence  on Mr Cs part.
As I set out earlier, negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise  reasonable care.  I think it is fair to say 
that gross  negligence involves a degree of negligence that is higher than ordinary negligence.  That is consistent  
with what has been  held by the courts in a commercial contract  context (as mentioned, Mance J held that 
Gross negligence is clearly  intended to represent something more fundamental than failure to exercise proper  
skill and/or  care constituting negligence), and the FCAs guidance, which says that gross negligence is a higher 
standard than the standard  of negligence under common law. 
Ive thought  carefully  about  the actions Mr and Mrs C took in the circumstances here, and whether what they did 
fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person that it would be fair to say they failed with gross negligence  
to keep their personalised  security details  safe or to comply with the Terms and Conditions of the account.
Gross negligence isnt an abstract concept.  Its important to take into account all the circumstances when 
considering whether an individuals actions amount to gross negligence. The scam here involved smishing  and 
social engineering , where the fraudsters  use a range of sophisticated  techniques to trick, deceive and 
manipulate their victims  into giving out confidential information. Here  Mr and Mrs C were made to believe they 
were talking  to their own bank  and that they were  acting to correct a duplicate payment made from their bank 
account. So Ive thought about  Mr and Mrs Cs actions in that context, and considered their overall  actions.
If this did begin with the capture of details  through a fake website, there is no way I can know  what  the website  
looked like. But Ive seen examples of phishing websites  that look strikingly similar to the genuine Metro Bank 
website. And I dont think it would  be readily  apparent to most reasonable consumers entering  their details into 
such a website that theyre not dealing with Metro Bank.  If Mr or Mrs C did compromise  these security details in 
this way, and at present  I think  this most likely, there  is not enough evidence to say their actions displayed a lack 
of care sufficient for me to find Mr and Mrs C acted with gross  negligence.
Mrs C recalls she read out the OTP codes  to the fraudster.  The fraudster had convinced her that the codes were 
needed in the process  of refunding  Mr and Mrs Cs money and the various stages the bank  needed  to go through  
to do that. Mrs C does recall  she asked  about the reference to a new payee, but was reassured by the fraudster 
that this was necessary to allow the return of the duplicate payment to their account. 
The call from the fraudster happened  the day after Mrs C received a genuine  text message  from Metro Bank 
regarding a suspected fraudulent transaction on her account. Its plausible to my mind that in this context the 
fraudsters call the following  day would have seemed less incongruous than it otherwise might.
In any event, Mrs Cs recollections indicate the fraudster was able to utilise  knowledge of the exact  details of a 
recent transaction  on the account to create  an environment where she fully believed she was speaking with her 
bank. Mrs C has also commented that the apparent knowledge the fraudster had of their personal  contact 
telephone numbers again led her to believe she was speaking with Metro Bank.
I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs C to know what Metro Banks processes  are for cancelling a duplicate payment, or 
to necessarily  question  what  they were being asked to do  they genuinely believed they were working with their 
bank to protect their money and return a duplicated payment to their account.
Taking everything into account,  I dont  think, at the time, Mr and Mrs C thought they were doing anything other 
than acting to allow  Metro  Bank to correct a duplicated  payment that had been  wrongly taken from their account. 
Rather than appreciating  the risk they was taking by following the fraudsters instructions  but disregarding or 
being indifferent to this, they were under the opposite  impression that if they didnt follow those instructions  they 
were at risk of losing money.
On balance, I dont think  anything happened to break the spell Mr and Mrs C were under at the time. And Im not 
persuaded that their actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would  do in the circumstances  to amount 
to gross negligence.  I think  in similar circumstances, a reasonable person wouldve acted in the same  way that 
Mr and Mrs C did here.
Ref: DRN14449799warnings
Metro Bank  refers to a number of things  it has done to raise the general awareness  of fraud risk amongst its 
customers, including specific  warnings, which  it says Mr and Mrs C would  have  had to acknowledge  to log on to 
their online banking.
But even if Mr and Mrs C engaged with these things  it doesnt  follow  that they were grossly  negligent  for falling  
victim to fraud thereafter.  Nor would it necessarily  be fair to say Mr and Mrs C were grossly  negligent  if they did 
not engage with these  things and then fell victim to fraud.  I am required to consider whether  what  Mr and Mrs C 
did fell so far below  the standard of a reasonable person that it would be fair to say they failed with gross 
negligence to keep their personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions of their 
account.
To be clear, Im not saying that fraud  warnings  by a bank  arent ever relevant at all, or couldnt, potentially, make 
a difference in a specific example of fraud. Nor am I condoning an individual who chooses consciously to 
disregard such  warnings. But, by way of balance to this point, I also think its right to appreciate and understand  
that, in a busy  world, such messages are not always read by consumers and even  if read may not, reasonably,  
be in a consumers  mind when faced with a sophisticated real time confidence  trick of this nature sometime later. 
It is encouraging to hear that banks are increasingly looking  at ways to provide more  real time  and impactful 
fraud specific  warnings with this in mind.
On the facts  of this particular  case, I dont believe Mr and Mrs Cs failure to read or heed the warnings in question 
is enough, on the balance of evidence, for Metro  Bank  to demonstrate gross negligence occurred  here.
other considerations
Mrs C has explained  the distress and worry this event caused  both her and her late husband. Largely this can be 
attributed to the actions of the fraudsters involved.  But I have also thought  about the impact Metro  Banks 
handling of the issue had on Mr and Mrs C. 
Mrs C initially called her branch to report duplicated transactions. That call commenced  before  the main transfers 
out of the account took place.  By the time Mrs C had been connected  to the correct  department in Metro Bank, 
the transfers  out had been  made  by the fraudster. Mrs C has expressed her concern  that Metro Bank could have 
stopped the fraud by acting more promptly here.  
Ive thought  carefully  about  the timing and sequence of events, and Ive listened to the relevant  call. The initial 
concern Mrs C raised was about duplicated  transactions  of just over £50 value. In the circumstances, I wouldnt 
necessarily have  expected Metro Bank  to immediately have identified this conversation as indicative of a fraud. 
Even had it done  so, events unfolded so quickly  that the funds were transferred out before Mrs C spoke to the 
correct team in Metro Bank. On balance I dont find Metro Bank  actions here could have prevented those 
transfers taking place as they did.
However, Metro  Bank took longer than Id expect  to report the fraud to the receiving bank. The email  it sent was 
despatched at 9:01am  the following day, but by this time the funds had left the receiving accounts, having been 
moved on by the fraudster. I am not certain  why that email  could not have been sent sooner  by Metro Bank. Its 
possible this delay contributed to the inability of either bank to retrieve Mr and Mrs Cs money.
 
Id invite further comments on this point.  But based  on what I currently know of happened I consider Metro  Bank 
should pay Mrs C compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused here.
putting things  right
For the reasons given, I do not think it was fair and reasonable for Metro Bank  not to refund the amount stolen 
from Mr and Mrs Cs current account.
I think Metro Bank should:
Ref: DRN144497910-refund  Mrs Cs current account with £4427.02; 
-refund  any fees or charges that Mr and Mrs C may have  incurred on their current account that directly  
resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed payments;
-pay interest on that amount  at 8% simple interest  per year, from the date of the withdrawals to the date 
of settlement. If Metro Bank deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mrs C 
and the estate of Mr C with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and
-pay Mrs C the sum of £250 in respect of the distress  and inconvenience caused by Metro Banks 
handling of the matter.
Ive noted that regulation 62 of the PSRs 2009 suggests that Mr and Mrs C could have been  liable  up to a 
maximum of £50 for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised  payment transactions. But the terms and 
conditions that applied  to Mr and Mrs Cs account dont  make  any provision for Metro Bank to withhold up to £50. 
As Metro Bank hasnt reserved this right and its terms indicate  that it will pay the amount of an unauthorised 
transaction if it does decide  to refund a transaction, Im currently of the opinion  that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to refund the full amount of these unauthorised transfers.
provisional decision
For the reasons given, my provisional decision is to uphold Mrs C and the estate of Mr Cs complaint. My current  
view is that Metro  Bank PLC should calculate  and pay compensation as set out above. 
Ill wait two weeks for both parties to provide any further comments or evidence before reviewing the matter 
again. 
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444979