K820x#14complaint
Mrs C and Mrs Z (the complainants)  are represented. Mrs C has a power of attorney for her 
mother, Mrs Z, whose portfolio features in the complaint.  In the representatives letter of 17 
April 2020 the complaint  about Attivo Financial Services Limited (Attivo) was summarised  
as follows:
A failing,  in 2018, in Attivos customer care and client relationship duties towards the 
complainants (particularly Mrs  C) in terms of lack of contact from their adviser, late 
notification that their previous adviser  had left the firm and their experience of 
instability thereafter as they were  passed from one substitute  adviser to another  (and 
without continuity  of advice). [issue 1]
A body  of issues (including issue 1) arising  from advice  given  by the first substitute  
adviser and summarised in a complaint letter (to Attivo) dated  16 April 2019  beyond 
issue 1, the issues  relate to alleged misrepresentations by the adviser  about  his 
engagement with Mrs C, failure to properly execute  his recommendations, concerns 
about the portfolio rearrangement aspect of the advisers recommendations (and the 
associated costs)  and a claim for compensation (to cover tax liabilities and the costs  
of professional assistance) and compensation for trouble and upset. [issue 2]
Unclear cancellation rights in relation  to the recommendations in issue  2. [issue  3]
Unclear risk assessment in relation to the recommendations in issue  2. [issue  4]
Unclear information about  the effect  of the rearrangement recommendations in issue 
2. [issue 5]
Compensation for all of the issues. [issue 6]
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, his view was as follows:
He noted that Attivo  accepts full responsibility  for the advisers failure to properly 
execute the recommendations (of February 2018). 
[The adviser was supposed to transfer  only specific funds from an Old Mutual Wealth  
(OMW) account  to a Standard Life (SL) managed  account but instead transferred 
the entire OMW  account. The former was supposed to realise  a gain within  the 
annual Capital Gains Tax (CGT) exempt amount, and therefore avoid CGT liability, 
but the latter created a CGT liability. The adviser was also supposed to transfer only 
£20,000 from a specific fund in the OMW  account  to an Individual  Savings Account 
(ISA) but instead he transferred £40,000  from the wrong fund to the ISA and created 
further CGT liability that should have been avoided.]
He noted that Attivo  has also undertaken to redress all CGT liability arising from the 
error  in order to ensure the complainants are compensated  fully in this respect;  and 
that Attivo offered  them £750 for the trouble and upset caused to them.
He did not consider  that the recommendation itself was unsuitable or that it 
mismatched Mrs Zs risk profile and he noted  that after Attivo  identified  the execution  
error it offered to review the portfolio  and provide  any necessary further advice.
He noted the complainants reference  to care cost provisions (for Mrs Z) being  
compromised, the costs (around  £2,000) they incurred  for independent  financial 
advice they obtained,  the same (costs of £9,000) for their representatives 
accountancy service, the cost (£990) of Mrs Cs time in pursuing the complaint and 
their claim for more  compensation for the trouble  and upset caused to them. He was 
not persuaded that the advisers recommendations caused any detriment to Mrs Zs 
Ref: DRN14918252care cost provisions or that independent financial advice was required  by the 
complainants given Attivos handling of and undertakings/offers in the matter. He 
considered that no liability  arose from the former and that Attivo  should not have to 
cover costs in terms of the latter. He reflected Attivos  additional offer to cover  any 
incremental costs incurred by the complainants from their representatives 
accountancy work directly  related to the CGT liability arising from its advisers  
execution error. He also said he was satisfied that Attivos offer of £750 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to the complainants  and for the time spent to resolve the 
complaint is fair and reasonable.
The representative disagreed with this outcome.  In the main, she asserted that it was 
reasonable for the complainants to have sought advice in order to understand the 
implications of the error and issues Attivo identified and disclosed to them  in Spring 2018, so 
Attivo should  cover  the associated costs;  that the care costs  issue had been wrongly 
addressed and that the investigator did not have a credible  basis to say the 
recommendations did not affect Mrs Zs care cost provisions; that compensation should 
include reconstitution  of the portfolio  to what it was before the erroneous execution  events; 
and that £750 for trouble  and upset goes nowhere near compensating the complainants  for 
the costs they have  made claims for. Mrs C also submitted a personal statement about  the 
complaint.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and he responded to the 
representative to explain why. The matter was referred to an ombudsman  and the 
representative made final submissions  consolidating her main arguments and relevant 
documentation  in this respect. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I conclude  that the 
complaint is not upheld.
Issue 1
Attivo has offered  the complainants  £750  for the trouble and upset  caused  to them. I am 
persuaded that this reasonably covers all the trouble and upset caused to the complainants  
and arising from the complaint (from  all of the issues).
This services approach  towards awards  for trouble,  upset, distress and/or inconvenience is 
mainly to address  the effects and impacts, under  these headings,  caused  to the complainant  
by the detriments arising from the complaint. Our approach does not include a punitive  
motive (towards  the firm) and it focuses mainly  on quantifying  in monetary terms  the 
effects under the above headings. 
In the present complaint,  I appreciate  the trouble and upset  that would have been caused to 
the complainants from losing their previous adviser  (with whom they say they were happy), 
from Attivos service to them thereafter (especially their experience of changes  in advisers in 
2018) and from learning about the execution error  (and the matters  associated with that). 
However, it is also relevant to note that Attivo was quite proactive in identifying the execution 
error, in undertaking to review  the portfolio at the time and in undertaking all CGT liabilities  
(and associated accountancy costs) arising from the matter. 
Ref: DRN14918253The above  issues  are addressed separately  below, but they also have the effect of qualifying  
the trouble and upset the complainants experienced. Overall, the complainants have  not 
been left without meaningful assistance  from Attivo. They  have had such assistance (as 
summarised above)  and this is more likely (than  not) to have reduced the level of trouble and 
upset they experienced. In this context,  I consider  this makes Attivos  offer of £750  
reasonable in the circumstances of the case and for the trouble and upset (for all of the 
issues and including  time spent by Mrs C in pursuing the complaint) caused to the 
complainants in the case.
Issues 2, 3, 4 and 5
The main  features of issue 2 are the execution  error  matter and what I consider, in broad 
terms, to be the complainants concern  about  suitability of the recommendations of February 
2018 (that is, their reference to the rearrangement  of the portfolio). The matter of the 
advisers engagement (meetings) with Mrs C being misrepresented appears to relate more 
to the overall service  complaint   for the period after their previous  adviser  left  under issue 
1, which  I have addressed  above.
I consider that the complainants concern about  suitability also covers the matters raised in 
issues 3, 4 and 5 (that is, cancellation rights  and risk assessment related to the advisers 
recommendation and the effect  of the recommendation to rearrange the portfolio).
With regards to the execution error, I share  the investigators findings.  Attivo has expressly  
conceded both transfer errors mentioned above  and its responsibility  for them;  it has 
apologised for them  and undertaken financial responsibility for all CGT liabilities that arise  
from them; it has also offered to cover the representatives fees for accountancy work 
directly related to the CGT liabilities arising  from the transfer errors. I do not consider that 
Attivo can reasonably  be expected to do any more to redress  the tax consequences of the 
transfer errors. 
The representative argues that proper redress should also include returning  the portfolio to 
what it was before the errors. If this refers to the portfolio prior to the February 2018 
recommendations then it is an argument  that is part of the suitability matter that I will 
address further  below.  If not, the alternative  is that it refers to what  the portfolio would have 
been like based  on those recommendations and but for the errors. This appears to have  
been what Attivo sought to address by offering (in October 2018) to review the portfolio 
afresh. I consider that this too was a reasonable response.
One of the points made by the representative  about  the effect of the restructured portfolio  
and with relevance to the care cost provision  argument  is that a stand-alone income 
stream previously existed  from the portfolio but  was then lost after the advisers  actions,  
with income thereafter  arising mainly from an erosion of capital. The argument appears to be 
that the separate lump  sum provisions for Mrs Zs care costs  were potentially insufficient  so 
there was a need for the income  stream  (without  detriment to capital)  to provide potential 
future support in this respect. I understand this point but the alleged effect appears to have  
resulted from the transfer errors, so it also relates  to what the portfolio would have been like 
but for those errors  for which Attivo reasonably offered a review as a form of redress.
I am not persuaded by the representatives argument about simply returning  the portfolio to a 
previous state.  There had been significant changes to the circumstances of the portfolio  
because of the transfer errors  so a fresh review was a reasonable proposal. 
Ref: DRN14918254I am also not persuaded by the claim for compensation to cover the professional assistance 
used by the complainants. Attivo has already offered  to cover the representatives 
accountancy service costs (related directly  to addressing the CGT liabilities arising from the 
transfer errors). This is distinct from any other service the representative  has provided the 
complainant and I agree this should be the case  Attivos responsibility is limited to the 
transfer errors (and CGT liabilities arising from them). Like the investigator,  I too do not 
accept that external financial  advice was required as a direct consequence of the transfer  
errors. Attivo undertook  to redress the tax implications of the errors, the associated  
professional costs and to review the portfolio. If the complainants preferred to obtain a 
second opinion  on the matter, they were entitled  to do so but that does not mean the costs  of 
doing so were reasonably Attivos responsibility.  In the circumstances, they were not.
In terms of suitability, available evidence supports the following: 
The assessment  of Mrs Z as low risk profile  investor. The representative  has 
questioned the reliability of the telephone  based assessment in this respect. However  
I do not consider  that I have seen cause  to say it is unreliable. More importantly, the 
assessment outcome   the low risk profile  was conveyed  in the advisers 
recommendation report and it does not appear to have  been  disputed by the 
complainants at the time.
About  half a page within  the recommendation report sets out information about  
cancellation rights  (and how to exercise  them), in reasonably clear and accessible 
language.
The recommendation report is detailed and it was sent to Mrs C (in her role acting on 
behalf of Mrs Z). She has affirmed to us her competence in handling  Mrs Zs portfolio 
affairs and she objected  to what she perceived as Attivos suggestion that she was 
not. Overall and on balance, I consider that she competently  understood the report 
and it does not appear to have been disputed by her at the time,  so I consider its 
contents about Mrs Zs circumstances reliable.
Based  on the report, Mrs Zs estate was valued at around  £2 million and she was 
debt free; her care cost provisions took the form of a cash reserve of around 
£600,000; her investment related objectives were based  on a desire to consolidate 
her investments (for ease  of administration and in a managed  context), to align  her 
investments with her low risk profile,  to have  unrestricted access to investment types 
(and markets) and, as the representative  says, to have  her investments support her 
long term care needs.
The recommendations directly addressed the consolidation objective. They also 
addressed what the adviser identified as a previously  mainly advice based service for 
Mrs Zs funds by recommending  transfer to managed funds with rebalancing and 
management oversight features within them. The report  refers to a previous lack of 
diversification in the underlying investments within  the relevant previous funds and a 
mismatch between  them  and the low risk profile  that the adviser concluded with Mrs 
Z  these  too were  addressed by the recommendations. Tax efficiency also appears  
to have been properly considered in the recommendations, as was Mrs Zs need  to 
generate income.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that the effects of the recommendations 
were unclear  the report appears  to have covered relevant  aspects of the 
associated instructions, objectives and recommendations with appendices that 
summarised the recommendations for added clarity. I also do not consider that the 
recommendations were  unsuitable, in the context of Mrs Zs circumstances as they 
were and given  that they related to a total of around  5% of the value of her estate. I 
appreciate that the advisers transfer  errors subsequently affected more than this 
Ref: DRN14918255total value, but Attivo  has accepted responsibility  for that separately and those errors 
were not part of the recommendations.
Issue 6
For the reasons  given  above, I consider that Attivos offers and undertakings in this matter  
are reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mrs Z to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1491825