K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that an adviser with 1825 Financial Planning And Advice Limited (1825)  
told her to cancel an existing critical illness policy but then caused delays in arranging a 
replacement. She then unfortunately suffered a critical illness and was unable  to make a 
claim.   
  
background
In 2012 Mrs H discussed with her adviser the possibility  of replacing an existing endowment  
policy that included  critical illness cover. The endowment, which  shed held since the 90s, 
hadnt been performing well. 
Mrs H says that as part of these discussions the adviser told her to cancel  the endowment 
and she did so in January  2013. She says she then repeatedly chased him to provide the 
documentation required  to put an alternative in place. But the documentation wasnt  received 
and unfortunately  in July 2013 Mrs H suffered a sudden, serious  illness.  Her husband told 
the adviser what had happened and it was only then that the documentation  was supplied. 
In 2018, following rehabilitation,  Mrs H felt able to make a complaint about what  had 
happened. 1825 didnt  uphold the complaint saying, in brief, that despite  an extensive  
search its records didnt support Mrs Hs version  of events. It did, however, offer her £250 to 
reflect the length of time it had taken to look into the matter. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with this response,  so referred her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator reached broadly the same  conclusion as 1825.  He explained that he recognised 
Mrs Hs frustration and strength of feeling. But he didnt feel that the documentary evidence  
 primarily copies of a number of emails sent between her and the adviser   supported  her 
recollection of the events.  So he felt unable to recommend the complaint be upheld.    
Mrs H didnt accept this, so the matters  been  referred to me to review.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive listened  to recordings of 
the phone  conversations  Mrs H has had with our members of staff,  including  that where  the 
investigator explained his view, so as to be sure Ive a full understanding  of her complaint 
and its circumstances.  
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
I understand Mrs Hs frustration that because much of the communication  with the adviser  
was by telephone theres  no clear record of what was said. The calls were  either  not 
recorded or wouldnt still be retained  more than six years on from the events in question. 
And, as such, Im very reliant upon the documentary evidence  the emails  between her and 
the adviser  in reaching my decision.  That doesnt  in any way mean  that Im discounting 
Mrs Hs recollections.  But in reaching a fair conclusion I have to balance  all the evidence. 
 
Ref: DRN11001132The adviser recollects that he did discuss  replacing  the cover  provided by the endowment 
policy with Mrs H in 2012. And, as noted,  there are emails that demonstrate  that interaction.  
But he says he didnt  advise Mrs H to cancel the policy and he made clear that, while he 
could provide some general information on potential  replacement policies, he would  need  to 
complete a fact find before making any formal recommendation. 
Mrs H says that the adviser did tell her to cancel  the policy and he also failed to follow up on 
repeated requests over many months for application forms for new cover.  But none of this is 
borne out in the emails.  These show a general correspondence about  the possibility of 
obtaining new cover. They indicate  that some illustrations  were provided and that the adviser  
was thinking about ways  that Mrs H could also replace the investment element of the 
endowment policy.  They  also show that the adviser explained that hed have to complete a 
fact find before he could  report to Mrs H on any recommendation. (I note Mrs H has 
questioned why this wouldve been needed as one had been completed  not long before. But 
its normal practice for at least  an update to be completed when  a new recommendation is to 
be made.) 
But nowhere is there anything to show  that the adviser said to cancel the policy.  Conversely 
in fact, one of the emails shows Mrs H asking for information from the adviser so she can 
work out what to do with the policy. As such, on balance, I dont feel able to conclude  that 
the adviser told Mrs H to make the cancellation. 
And similarly, in respect of the requests for application forms, theres  little if anything to 
support Mrs Hs assertions that she was chasing  for them  in late 2012/early 2013. The only 
reference to them in the emails seems to be much  later, in November 2013, well after Mrs H 
become ill. 
I note shes queried why the forms wouldve  been sent to her after her illness, when her 
insurability would have  been very different. The adviser says he was simply responding to a 
request for them. And the emails, for instance one sent on 17 December 2013, demonstrate  
a generally amiable correspondence, with, again,  nothing mentioned  in respect  of the 
cancellation or the failure to send  the forms previously. It looks as if Mrs Hs husband was 
also seeking cover  so the forms couldve  been  sent in respect  of that requirement.  Or 
possibly cover for Mrs H, but with the illness she suffered in 2013  excluded. Either way, I 
dont think the forms being sent later indicates  that a mistake was made  in not sending  them  
earlier. 
As noted,  I do appreciate Mrs Hs frustration and I dont doubt there was much more  detail 
included in the telephone  discussions between her and the adviser. But nevertheless, 
balancing all the evidence as Im required to do, I dont think  I can fairly  conclude  that the 
adviser acted incorrectly  and should  be held responsible for Mrs H being unable  to make a 
claim for her illness.
Ive noted Mrs Hs points  about the advisers change of role and the apparent  conflicting 
information she was given about  this. Shes  said that this and other issues  with the service  
provided to her suggests a lack of reliability that damages the advisers  credibility. I can 
understand why she might feel this way. But Ive not seen enough to suggest a pattern of 
behaviour by the adviser that would, in turn, suggest that he and his recollections were 
wholly unreliable.
Ref: DRN11001133my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019..
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1100113