complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) initially  agreed  to cover a claim made  
on his travel insurance policy and then subsequently deciding it shouldnt  have been covered 
- and the way his claim was handled.  Mr H is being represented by his mum, Mrs H.
All reference to IPA includes it claims handlers.
background
Mr H took out an annual bronze travel  insurance  policy  underwritten  by IPA  on 10 
September 2018 (the policy). The policy was taken out directly  through its website.
Mr H travelled abroad on 29 September 2018  for a weeks  holiday with his girlfriend  and 
daughter. The day after, on 30 September, he was admitted to hospital with a blood clot on 
his lung and a respiratory infection. He was placed  in an intensive  care unit.
After Mr H was admitted to hospital Mrs H contacted  IPA to make a claim on the policy.  After  
obtaining written  permission to do so, IPA contacted Mr Hs GP requesting copies of his 
medical records. IPA received these on 5 October 2018 and later that day IPA confirmed that 
it would  cover Mr H.
As Mr Hs girlfriend  and daughter were due to fly home  on 6 October 2018, IPA agreed to 
cover the cost of Mrs H flying from the UK to be with Mr H. In addition to the costs of her 
flights it agreed to cover  her hotel costs. Mrs H flew out on 8 October  2018.
On 10 October 2018, IPA notified Mrs H that information had come to light which indicated, at 
the time of taking  out the policy, Mr H hadnt declared that he was awaiting investigation for a 
medical condition.  It said had IPA been made  aware  of that, it wouldnt have sold him a policy  
at that time.
IPA agreed to provide  non-financial assistance  if required and agreed to honour the costs of 
Mrs Hs return flight home. Subsequently, it also agreed to cover Mr Hs medical costs up to 
10 October 2018 but not any medical costs incurred thereafter.
Unhappy, Mrs H complained to IPA on Mr Hs behalf. IPA ultimately agreed it shouldnt have 
confirmed it would cover  Mr Hs claim  upon receipt  of Mr Hs GP records. However, it 
concluded that Mr H didnt lose out financially by what it had done wrong. As well as covering 
his medical costs up to and including 10 October 2018, it also offered to:
-cover  Mrs Hs taxi and hotel costs whilst abroad;
-pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused; and
-reimburse Mr H for the premium he paid for the policy  in September  2018.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN1868954Mr H didnt think that fairly compensated him for what IPA had done wrong. Unhappy, he 
complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold  his complaint; she didnt think  IPA 
needed to do anything more. Mr H disagrees  so his complaint has now been passed  to me 
consider everything  afresh and make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive taken into account the law in  this area  which  sets out an insurers 
remedies where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly  misrepresented  the 
situation about things like their pre-existing medical  conditions when taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance,  theyll be asked questions  about themselves and the 
risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it 
wishes to cover that risk at all and, if it does, how much it will charge for doing so.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty 
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation when  entering  an 
insurance contract.  They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to 
assess the risk. If they dont, there  are some circumstances where an insurer  may be able to 
avoid the insurance  contact  but thats  only if theres been a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
In the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even  if they were provided  with 
the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding  whether Mr H took reasonable care is to be done in the light of all 
the relevant circumstances.  This can involve a number  of things including whether the 
questions Mr H was asked at the time of renewing the policy  were  sufficiently clear.
Mr H took out the policy online. Ive been  provided  with the sales  process journey 
including the questions he wouldve been  asked at the time.  On the of the questions 
was:
Is anyone you wish to insure on this policy awaiting a diagnosis, surgery,  treatment, test or 
investigations (or their results) for any medical condition, or suffering  symptoms that have not 
yet been discussed with a doctor?
I refer to this as the medical question.
Ive thought about whether Mr H took reasonable care when answering the medical question
 or whether  he made  a qualifying misrepresentation.
Mr Hs GP notes  reflect that on 22 June 2018 he had swollen  legs / ankles. He was advised 
to monitor his condition.  He went back to see his GP on 24 August 2018 about his ongoing 
leg oedema and although its reflected that his legs were better than usual, he was referred 
for blood tests.  Theres reference to Mr H being anxious about undergoing blood  tests and 
he had a fear of white coats  but that he would go.
His GPs surgery  has written to Mr H in November 2018 providing some  further  context of 
the appointment he attended on 24 August 2018.  Its reflected that the doctor was 
Ref: DRN1868954concerned about  the length of time hed had leg swelling and the extent of it. So Mr H was 
advised to have a blood test.
From the GP notes, it looks Mr H had the blood  test on 25 September 2018.  As Mr H applied  
for the policy on 10 September 2018, Im satisfied that at that time he was awaiting tests or 
investigation. So he shouldve  answered  yes to the medical  question.
After our investigator issued her view, Mr H said he did answer  yes to the medical  question  
but thats different to what hes said previously, and I dont think  thats likely. IPA says if hed 
answered yes to the medical question,  he wouldve been  prevented  from taking out the 
policy. I accept what IPA says about answering the medical question in this way so I think it 
wouldve automatically prompted a message to say that the policy couldnt be offered at this 
time.
So, on the balance of probabilities, I think its likely that Mr H answered  no to the medical 
question which was incorrect. And by doing so, he made a qualifying misrepresentation as 
he answered the medical question carelessly.
As such,  Im also satisfied  IPA couldve reasonably declined  the claim Mr H made on his 
policy shortly after it reviewed his medical  records on 5 October  2018  on the basis that the 
policy would never  have been  in place had Mr H answered the medical question with 
reasonable care. Instead, IPA accept that it told Mr H that he would be covered under the 
policy as its representative didnt notice the reference to Mr H being  referred  for blood tests 
on 24 August 2018. It accepts that this was an error  so Ive considered the impact  this had 
on Mr H.
IPA noticed its error on 10 October  2018 and confirmed  that it would cover  Mr Hs medical 
costs up to and including that date.  It subsequently  paid around £650  in medical costs.
Mrs H has said she would  be surprised if the medical costs were  as low as that, but 
Mr H hasnt been sent any invoices by the medical facility directly or chased for any
payment, which  I would have expected to happen by now considering he was treated around 
a year and a half ago. Mrs H has also confirmed that Mr H hasnt had to personally  pay for 
any medical treatment.
Im therefore  satisfied that there  arent any medical  fees outstanding and the fees that were  
charged up to 10 October 2018 have been  covered  by IPA, as it agreed to do. 
So, Mr H hasnt lost out financially  in this respect.
IPA noticed its error about a day after it had been  notified that a fit to fly certificate had been 
issued and Mr H was ready to be discharged from hospital. I can see that it did start taking 
steps to arrange for Mr H to be repatriated back to the UK with a nurse escort. It was also 
taking steps to arrange an upgraded seat for him. However, upon noticing its error, it then 
took the decision to not pay for Mr Hs return flight home or for a medical escort.
IPAs notes reflect that Mr H was very upset and frustrated by being told that IPA wouldnt 
now be paying for his flights  home, and I can understand  why he felt this way. However, had 
Mr H not answered the medical question carelessly, the policy  wouldnt have been  offered to 
him at that time. So, I dont think IPA has unreasonably concluded that the costs of his flight  
home (including baggage costs)  arent covered as there was no obligation on IPA to arrange 
and pay for Mr Hs travel home. And nor would  it have been required to pay for a nurse  
escort.
Ref: DRN1868954K820x#14However, I think it would  be fair and reasonable for IPA to compensate  Mr H for the 
upset and frustration  he experienced by being told on 10 October 2018 that IPA 
shouldnt have confirmed  cover was in place.  That wouldve been exacerbated by the 
disappointment of being told that it wouldnt now be covering his flight costs home or 
paying for a medical escort home,  and its initial decision not to cover  his medical fees. 
Whilst I know that IPA subsequently agreed to cover  his medical costs, I accept this 
initial confusion wouldve worried Mr H. IPA also accept that there  were  times when it 
couldve better communicated with Mr H and kept him updated, and this wouldve also 
caused him unnecessary trouble and upset.
Ive also taken into account what he says about the inconvenience, stress and worry 
experienced by Mrs H particularly when, after noticing its initial  error, it said it wouldnt 
cover her travel and hotel  costs. However, as she doesnt have the benefit of Mr Hs 
policy, and didnt have  a contract  of insurance with IPA, I dont  have any power to direct 
IPA to compensate  her personally for the distress  and inconvenience she experienced.
But I do accept that Mrs Hs distress  is likely  to have needlessly exacerbated an 
already stressful  situation for Mr H.
IPA has offered Mr H £500 to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. I think that fairly reflects the moderate trouble and upset he suffered as a 
result of what it did wrong here.
Other issues:
As Mr H answered the medical question carelessly   and not deliberately  or recklessly,  
IPA has now paid back the premium Mr H paid for the policy  which is what  I wouldve 
expected it to do. Mr H has confirmed safe receipt of this payment.
Under the policy, taxi fares to make visits to the hospital arent covered so I dont think  
IPAs decision to decline reimburse Mr H for his girlfriends taxi fares  to and from the 
hospital to visit him, is unfair in this particular  case.
However, the policy does  cover reasonable transport and/or accommodation costs for a 
close relative  which  includes the policyholders  mum - to be with the policyholder. 
I understand IPA has now paid the costs of Mrs Hs return flights (including  baggage) and 
the taxi fares  she incurred whilst abroad  to visit Mr H in hospital for which she has been 
able to produce receipts. I dont think its fair or reasonable for IPA to pay for taxi fares  that 
cant be evidenced by a receipt   or similar   as stipulated by the policy.
The policy makes no mention of that cover extending to that persons food costs  so I dont 
think IPA has unfairly  concluded that it wont cover Mrs Hs food costs whilst she was 
away.
Nor do I think it would  be fair or reasonable to hold IPA responsible  for Mrs Hs loss of 
earnings as a result of her flying abroad  to be with Mr H, after he was mistakenly told that 
he was covered under the policy.
Ref: DRN18689545Even if IPA had confirmed  on 5 October  2018  that Mr H wasnt covered under the policy, 
I dont think that wouldve  impacted Mrs Hs decision to fly out to be with him. Thats 
because Mr Hs girlfriend was due to fly home  and given the state of Mr Hs health at time, 
I think its likely Mrs H wouldve still decided to fly out to be with him. In any event, the 
policy doesnt cover  the loss of earnings of the person who travels out to be with the 
policyholder and Mrs H wasnt  told that her earnings  would be covered before she left, but 
chose to go anyway.
I also note Mrs H has said that the entire situation  has caused her significant stress. As a 
result she says she had to take time off work  after she returned  back to the UK. Im sorry 
to hear that. However, as Ive already  explained, I dont have any power to direct  IPA to 
pay compensation to Mrs H for distress and inconvenience, or any loss of earnings shes 
experienced after she returned  to the UK as a result  of whats its done wrong. She wasnt  
a named beneficiary on the policy Mr H took out in September 2018.
Mrs H also says Mr H has had further  treatment  in the UK which hes had to pay for. 
However, Im satisfied IPA isnt responsible  for any costs as treatment received once back 
in the UK isnt covered  under the policy.
my final decision
Inter Partner Assistance  SA doesnt need to do anything more.  Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my 
decision before  26 March 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868954