K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd is holding him liable for £1,987.57  of card payments which 
he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
what happened
On 26 April 2017, a credit card account  was opened  in Mr Ss name using his full name, date 
of birth,  address, phone numbers, and details of his finances. Mr S says he received the 
card and kept it.
On 5 May 2017,  the card was activated by a phone call to NewDay.  On 9 May 2017, 
someone set up an online  servicing  account  to manage the card.
On 10 May 2017, there was an attempt to use the card to make a £2,124.15 purchase at a 
large retail store, and for an online purchase  of £61.20.  However, these payments would 
have brought  the card over its credit limit, so the transactions  and the card were  blocked. 
NewDay phoned Mr S but couldnt get through, so they sent him a letter  to let him know  what  
had happened.
On 31 May 2017, NewDay were  phoned by a man who was able to pass  security and be 
identified as Mr S. He confirmed he had tried to make the payments. He ordered  a new card 
to replace the blocked one.
Mr S confirmed he also received this replacement card and kept it. It was activated on 
7 June 2017.
On 30 June 2017, a successful purchase  of £1,900 was made at the same retail store as the 
one in May. Then on 12 July 2017, a further payment of £87.57 was made at a different 
shop.
Mr S was sent statements on 5 July 2017  and 6 August 2017, showing these payments. He 
says he received these  statements.
On 31 July and 1 August 2017, someone paid £25 and £20 respectively towards  the credit 
card balance to cover  the minimum payment.
On 6 September 2017, NewDay phoned Mr S as he hadnt made  a payment that month.  He 
ordered a new card, saying hed lost the previous one. He said hed missed  his payment 
because he hadnt  seen his latest statement and would make a payment on 8 September   
which he did. Though on 8 September, he said hed missed  the payment due to banking 
issues rather than because hed not seen the statement. 
On 12 September  2017, Mr S called to check he was up to date with his payments.
On 14 September  2017, Mr S phoned NewDay to say he hadnt made the transactions on 
his account. According to the call notes, he said hed received the PIN and had memorised  it 
and destroyed  the paperwork,  but never  received the first card. He didnt record his PIN or 
tell it to anyone.  He confirmed he had seen his August  statement, and so was aware of the 
payments, but couldnt give a reason for not contacting NewDay earlier.
Ref: DRN13984432NewDay held Mr S liable for the payments. They couldnt see how someone wouldve 
learned his PIN without  his permission. They listened to the call on 31 May 2017  and thought 
it was Mr S who had called to confirm  hed tried to make a large payment to the retail  store.  
They questioned why Mr S waited so long to report the transactions,  and why he had made  
payments towards  the balance if hed never spent on the card.
Mr S came to our service.  He clarified that he later found his card and had it with him, so it 
was not lost after all. He kept it in an envelope in a cupboard in his locked room,  which  only 
he had the key for. He suspected a housemate could  have  accessed  his room using a 
screwdriver. He said he rarely interacts  with his four housemates and they didnt even know 
each others names.  He said he actually received the first card, but not the PIN, and never 
knew what the PIN was.
Mr S said he was too ill to have  travelled  to the store to make  the payment. He also said he 
was travelling abroad to visit family at the time of the transactions. He provided evidence  of 
his purchased flights, departing on 26 June  and returning on 11 August 2017.
In July 2019, Mr Ss representatives said he had in fact never applied for the card in the first 
place, did not set up the online servicing  account, and did not make the initial repayments of 
31 July and 1 August  2017 online. They  said Mr S was not computer literate.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Mr Ss new testimony contradicted what hed said before, and it didnt seem  likely hed keep 
a card or make payments  towards it if hed never applied for it out or spent on it. And the 
application data matched  Mr Ss. He felt there was no likely way someone  could have  taken 
and replaced the card and learned  the PIN without Mr Ss permission. He thought it was 
more likely that Mr S made  the payments or authorised  someone  else to make  them  for him, 
even if he wasnt there  himself.
Mr Ss representatives disagreed with our investigator,  so the complaints been  passed to 
me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to broadly the same  conclusions  as our investigator,  and for 
much the same reasons.
did Mr S open this account?
The card was applied  for using  information such as Mr Ss correct full name, date of birth, 
phone numbers, and budget information including his correct amount of rent. NewDay  then 
checked this information with credit  reference agencies. There  was an email address 
registered to the account  that was based on Mr Ss name. Mr S says the email isnt his, 
though theres  no way for me to verify whether its his or not.
Ref: DRN13984433It is possible that Mr Ss identity was stolen.  But it seems  unlikely  to have been an unknown 
party, as it isnt plausible that they couldve accessed Mr Ss house  and room  to take his 
cards on multiple occasions. Nor is it plausible that theyd wait so long to use the cards, or 
that theyd help Mr S to pay off the debt.  It also seems unlikely this was Mr Ss housemate 
as he suggested,  as if they didnt even know each others names,  its difficult to see how 
they reasonably  knew all of Mr Ss other  details.
Mr S has confirmed  he received both cards when they were sent out. And each card was 
then activated  shortly afterwards by someone contacting NewDay. It seems unlikely that a 
fraudster would activate  the cards  if they never managed to intercept them before they 
reached Mr S. And its difficult to see why Mr S would activate each card if he never  applied  
for them in the first place. Its more likely that Mr S activated the cards because he applied 
for them.
As of July 2019,  Mr S says he never applied for this account. But this contradicts what he 
said before. Throughout  Mr Ss complaint,  he and his representatives referred to the account 
and cards as belonging to Mr S. In their opening letter to our service  of 1 May 2018, his 
representatives even  say Mr [S] set up [this] credit  card from NewDay  Limited at some point 
before July 2017. 
Indeed, until July 2019 Mr S only disputed the transactions   I can see no previous mention 
of Mr S disputing the actual application for the card. If this card was taken  out fraudulently by 
someone else, I cant see why Mr S would wait for over two years to say so, or why hed 
repeatedly refer to it as being his own up to that point. I appreciate that Mr S may have had 
some trouble  expressing himself in English, but his testimony contradicts itself so clearly that 
I dont think thats  a reasonable explanation. And his representatives  are an English firm.
It seems  implausible that someone would keep the cards if they were taken out fraudulently, 
and that they would not report the fraud  once they realised someone  had opened  an account 
in their name. Mr S now says NewDay phoned  him to check hed received the card, and that 
at that point he told them he hadnt  applied for it. But there is no record or evidence  of that 
call, and it isnt standard  practice to phone customers to check  theyve received their card. 
And its difficult to see why he wouldnt have mentioned the fraud again for over two years.
Overall, I think its most likely that Mr S opened  the account, like his representatives 
originally said he did.
can NewDay hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions?
Broadly, NewDay can hold Mr S liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence suggests  
its most  likely he authorised them or gave someone  else permission to make them.
Im satisfied from NewDays technical  evidence that the person making the payments used 
Mr Ss genuine card and the correct PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for NewDay to hold 
Mr S liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests  that its most  likely 
Mr S consented to the payments or not. 
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for NewDay to conclude that Mr S authorised the transactions.
Ref: DRN13984434If we take Mr Ss initial testimony to be true  that he received his PIN, but not the first card  
then it would not have been  possible for someone to make  the transactions  without his 
permission. Mr S originally said he destroyed the PIN slip, and didnt record his PIN or tell it 
to anyone. No additional  PIN slips were sent.  And no one could have  observed  Mr S 
entering his PIN, since he never used the card before the disputed  transactions started.
However, after his initial complaint to NewDay, Mr S has repeatedly said that he received 
both cards, but not the PIN  so Ive also considered whether its likely someone  made  the 
transactions without  his permission on that basis.
I think its unlikely that an unknown party made  the transactions. There were two attempted  
payments on the first card in May 2017,  then two successful payments on the second card in 
June 2017. As I said above, its not plausible that an unknown  fraudster wouldve been able 
to access Mr Ss property and his separately locked room on multiple occasions to steal both 
cards. And I cant see why an unknown party would risk being caught in order  to return  
Mr Ss card to him.
The account  was opened on 26 April 2017,  but the first card wasnt  activated until 5 May 
2017. It wasnt then used until 10 May 2017. Then the person  using  the card didnt unblock  it 
until 31 May 2017. They waited until 7 June  2017 to activate the second card. Then  they 
waited until 30 June  2017 to use it again. If an unknown fraudster was trying  to use this 
account, I might have expected them to act as quickly as possible before the fraud was 
reported, and not to wait so long and risk being caught.
Further, Mr S says that the online repayments  towards the card were  not made by him on 
31 July and 1 August  2017. His representatives  say he had trouble using computers. I tried 
to get the details for where  the online repayments  came from, but the payment  details  arent 
still available. In any case, I dont think its likely that a fraudster would  pay towards Mr Ss 
balance for him.
I accept that its possible  someone known to Mr S may have done this without his 
permission, such as someone he lived with. But I dont think its likely.  It doesnt  seem likely 
that they could  have  broken into Mr Ss locked room on multiple occasions to repeatedly  
take and replace each card without him or any other  housemates noticing. And again, its 
difficult to see why they would go to such effort to defraud Mr S, but then make repayments 
to his card for him.
Mr S also confirmed he made payments towards the debt himself, at least starting from 
September 2017. I appreciate that Mr S may have been worried about how a default could 
affect him. But he started paying off the debt  and even phoned to check he was up to date 
with it  before reporting it as fraudulent. This seems very unusual: if the debt were 
fraudulent, one wouldve expected Mr S to say so first, or to have at least mentioned it, and 
then to have only paid towards  it if his fraud  claim wasnt accepted.  According  to the 
collections teams notes,  when they rang Mr S on 6 September 2017 he agreed  to make a 
payment and simply said he hadnt got his latest statement. But as Mr S is alleging that he 
never made any transactions on his card whatsoever, it seems strange that hed agree to 
pay any balance at all  I wouldve thought hed be surprised to learn  there was a balance, 
and would at least have queried it at the time.
Ref: DRN13984435Mr S has also confirmed  that he received his July and August statements and was aware of 
at least the £1,900 transaction.  But he didnt tell NewDay that anything  was wrong until 
14 September 2017. It seems unlikely that Mr S would wait so long to report the disputed  
payments if they were  made without  his permission.
According to NewDays contact notes, the person who phoned them on 31 May 2017 did so 
from Mr Ss number   the same number he gave our service. He was able to pass  security 
to be identified as Mr S. And NewDay say that in order to unblock the account, the caller 
wouldve had to answer additional security  questions. There  isnt still a recording of the call, 
because of all the time thats passed. But back in 2017, NewDays  fraud team  spoke to Mr S 
and also listened  to the call of 31 May 2017. They  felt it was Mr S who had made  that call. 
And the person who called in confirmed  they had tried to make the declined £2,124.15 
payment to the retail store on 10 May 2017   the same retail store that the successful 
£1,900 payment was made  to on 30 June 2017.  This indicates  that Mr S was aware  of the 
account activity, and indicates he was trying to make a large purchase at the retail store.
I appreciate why Mr Ss representatives would now like to see CCTV footage. But according 
to the store,  the footage is only kept for 30 days.  So by the time Mr S reported  the 
transactions, it wouldve already been gone. And were now over two years  on.
Ive also taken into account their points that Mr S was either  not realistically able to travel to 
the store, or that he was travelling abroad at the time.  But even if I accept that Mr S was not 
present at the transactions,  it was still possible for him to have given someone else 
permission to make the purchases for him. And Im afraid that all the evidence I went 
through above points to this being  a more likely and plausible possibility than the 
transactions being unauthorised.
In summary,  I dont think its plausible that an unknown person applied  for this account or 
made the payments. Nor do I think its likely  that someone known to Mr S did this without his 
permission. I think its more likely that Mr S opened  the account and either made the 
payments or authorised  someone else to make them. This is a difficult message for me to 
give, and I know it will be a difficult message for Mr S to receive. But given the evidence  
I have, Im unable to reasonably reach  any other conclusion.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for NewDay to hold Mr S liable for these 
transactions, because  I think  its more  likely  than not that he made  or authorised  them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398443