K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card application and went on to increase  her credit limit. 
background
Mrs K applied for an Aqua credit card which was approved in November  2011  and had a 
£400 credit  limit. Mrs K used her credit card and Aqua increased the credit limit over time.  
The limit was increased to £800  in September 2012,  £1,200  in April 2013, £2,100 in 
December 2013  and £3,150 in November 2015. 
Mrs K has explained that throughout her relationship  with Aqua she was using other credit,  
including borrowing from payday lenders.  Mrs K has also told us that she had some adverse 
credit during  this time. 
Mrs K complained about her credit card in 2018  but Aqua didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. Mrs K referred her complaint to this service and an investigator  looked at what  
had happened. He initially upheld Mrs Ks complaint as he felt the information on her credit 
file shouldve caused Aqua to do more checks when looking at whether to lend. But Aqua 
provided additional information  that showed  it wasnt aware of all of the credit Mrs K had. As 
a result,  the investigator changed  his view and explained to Mrs K that he thought Aqua had 
lent responsibly based on what it knew at the time.  
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view and asked to appeal her complaint so its been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt a set list of checks a business has to undertake before it agrees to lend to a 
consumer. But Id expect  to see checks that are proportionate to the type of borrowing  being 
considered to look at whether the debt is sustainable for the borrower. Ive looked  at the 
initial application in 2011 as well as the following limit increases  to decide whether Aqua lent 
responsibly. 
In November 2011 Aqua approved a credit card with a £400 limit. Aqua says it completed  a 
credit check  via a credit  reference agency  but didnt find any evidence  of adverse 
information. Mrs K told Aqua she was employed and earned £54,500 a year. Mrs K says if 
Aqua had checked her credit file it wouldve  seen  she was struggling at this time. 
But Aqua has explained that in 2011  it only received basic  information  from the credit  
reference agencies.  When it looked  at Mrs Ks credit file it noted  she had some missed  
payments but as it will consider borrowers with some adverse  credit that wasnt  something 
that caused the application to be declined. I appreciate  what Mrs K says about her credit at 
the time but I think Aqua completed proportionate  checks when it asked about her personal  
and financial  circumstances. I havent found  Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved  
Mrs Ks credit  card in 2011. 
Ref: DRN14752262Before I look at the subsequent limit increases I need to comment  on the information Aqua 
receives from the credit reference agencies. Aquas advised that it used  a credit reference 
agency to get information  during  its relationship  with Mrs K. Aquas explained  that the level 
of detail thats provided by the credit  reference agency has changed  over the years.  In 2014  
it started to get a more detailed picture  of a borrowers other credit.  In 2016 the credit 
reference agency started giving more information about payday lending.  But up until that 
point, details of a customers borrowing with payday  lenders wasnt reported  by the credit 
reference agency. That means that whilst I can see evidence of payday  borrowing by Mrs K 
during the period in question, it doesnt appear  that information was known to Aqua. 
The credit limit increased from £400 to £800 in September 2012. Aqua has explained that 
Mrs K hadnt  missed any payments, hadnt gone  over her credit limit and maintained the 
terms of the credit card. Aqua received regular information from the credit reference  agency 
and didnt find any new adverse information.  As a result  it wrote to Mrs K and advised that 
her credit limit had been  increased. I think that was a reasonable decision given the checks  
Aqua completed. 
In April 2013 Mrs Ks credit limit went  up to £1,200.  Again, Aqua looked at the information  it 
was given about Mrs Ks other credit. It also looked  at how shed managed her account 
before deciding whether to proceed. I note there  were no missed payments and Mrs K hadnt 
gone over her credit limit. I think Aquas decision to increase Mrs Ks credit limit was 
reasonable given the information it had at the time. 
Aqua went  on to increase Mrs Ks credit  limit to £2,100 in December 2013. Mrs Ks account 
had been run without any missed  payments  and the balance had been kept below the credit 
limit. Aqua says it uses internal credit  scoring and I can see from its systems that Mrs Ks 
score had gone up in the month  before it increased the limit. I note what Mrs K has told us 
about her circumstances around  this time but from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Aqua 
was aware she had taken out payday  loans or was experiencing difficulties. I think Aquas 
decision to increase Mrs Ks credit  limit was reasonable based on the information  it had 
available. 
From 2014  Aqua started  to receive more information  from the credit  reference agency it 
uses. The number  of active credit commitments  Mrs K had was noted as well as the fact 
shed defaulted  on something in the last year. But Ive looked  at the credit report Mrs K 
supplied and I can see there was further information  on there that wasnt  reported to Aqua.  I 
appreciate Mrs K feels Aqua shouldve known the limit increases werent affordable  but the 
information Ive seen indicates she was managing  her account. The information  provided 
about Mrs Ks credit  does  show shed  incurred a default but I dont think thats enough to 
persuade me that Aqua shouldnt have gone ahead.  
The final limit increase to £3,150 took place in November 2015. At this point Mrs K had 
managed her account without exceeding her limit or missing  a payment for several years.  
Aqua was provided with a more detailed  picture of Mrs Ks finances by the credit  reference 
agencies as well. But it still didnt receive any information about payday lending.  The credit  
reference agency appears to have started  reporting that information around March  2016. 
From the systems  evidence Ive seen I think Aquas decision to increase Mrs Ks limit was 
reasonable. It continued to look at how shed managed her account  as well as looking  at 
Ref: DRN14752263information concerning Mrs Ks credit. I havent  seen anything  to show  that Aqua lent 
irresponsibly by increasing  Mrs Ks credit limit. 
I note what Mrs K says about having some adverse credit and missing payments. But I dont 
think the extent  Mrs Ks credit and missed payments were known to Aqua as Ive said above.  
I also note that Aqua  wrote to Mrs K before  it increased her limit but I havent found anything  
to show she asked for the increases  to stop.  I appreciate Mrs K was going through a difficult  
time but I think Aqua could reasonably have expected her to say if she wanted to opt out of 
credit limit increases. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but whilst I appreciate she had some adverse credit and other 
borrowing, I havent found that Aqua was aware  of the extent  when it agreed  to lend. Aqua 
can decide how to set its lending criteria and whether to lend to borrowers with some  
adverse credit. So I cant say that its decision to proceed was unreasonable solely on the 
basis Mrs K had some adverse credit. Im satisfied that Aquas shown it did consider Mrs Ks 
personal and financial  circumstances before agreeing to approve her credit card and 
subsequent limit increases and I think the checks it completed were proportionate. As I 
havent found Aqua lent irresponsibly Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1475226