K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the action taken by Bank of Scotland  plc after it repossessed  
their mortgaged property. 
background
Mr and Mrs B say that the property title was split and that part of it - two barns - was on a 
separate piece  of land. Bank  of Scotland knew that they wanted to develop this part of the 
property. They were  not able to do so as all the property was sold. Theyd  left possessions in 
the property which they havent been  able to get back.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Bank of Scotland obtained  an outright possession order  for the whole title. This 
meant that it was entitled to sell all of it.
-There was an agreement with another lender over the priorities  of its mortgage and 
that of Bank of Scotland  for the land. But that didnt  split the title either.
-Bank of Scotland obtained  appropriate valuations  for the property. It was marketed in 
line with the recommendations and it was not viable to split the parts of the property.
-It made a decision to accept an offer from the interested  purchaser after it had been  
increased five times. No other  offers had been  received. Bank  of Scotland  needed to 
take into account the time the property had been on the market  and the ongoing 
costs in making this decision.
-It was not clear that Mr and Mrs B had told Bank of Scotland  about  their plans for the 
barns. But even  if they had Bank  of Scotland did not have  to agree this. 
-Bank of Scotland was entitled to vacant possession when the property was 
repossessed. The marketing pictures of the property  showed that the possessions  Mr 
and Mrs B referred to were still in the property. After repossession  the property was 
managed by an asset management company. There was an opportunity for these to 
be asked for in the 20 months before sale took place.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree. They say that the court paperwork only referred to the cottage 
and not to the barns. They think that it was agreed that the other lender had priority over the 
other land and note that Bank  of Scotland said in its final response that it did not think  that a 
related Deed of Postponement had been  executed  correctly. Mr B had told Bank of Scotland  
in February 2014  that the barns were mortgaged to the other lender. And that it was their 
intention to apply  for a change in use and change the title deed. This would have allowed 
them to clear all the debt. The repossession team never contacted them during the period  of 
sale. It did explain their plans to the other lender. They believe that lender  was coerced into 
a quick sale.
They understand that the property was put on the market  in August 2015 and then sold in 
December 2015.  They do not believe that this was a sufficient period of time for sale and 
they think the property was undersold.
If theyd known about the position with the barns  theyd not have left personal possessions 
there. They had no contact from Bank of Scotland and only found  out about  the shortfall 
when they followed  things up. It would  have been  easy to have consulted  with them.  
Ref: DRN13642162my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 May 2019 and said that I intended to 
uphold it in part. I set out below what I said.
Id asked Bank of Scotland for some more  information to help me assess this complaint. It 
provided me with its contact and servicing  notes,  copies of the valuations  of the property, its 
contact with the other lender and details of the marketing.
timeline
I set out some key events  here which are relevant
-16 January 2014 - an order  for possession by the Court  was granted to Bank of 
Scotland. I couldnt go behind that. It clearly  related to the whole of the property title. 
Mr and Mrs B were  present  at that hearing.
-February 2014 - Bank of Scotland has a record of a call with Mr B in which it notes 
the details of the second charge holder. Mr and Mrs B are then abroad
-April 2014 - a record of a further  call. Mr and Mrs B are still abroad and are made 
aware that the eviction is going  to proceed.
-May 2014 - the property first goes on the market  at £445,000. The price  had been  
reduced in stages by 15 August  2014  to £350,000.
-22 August 2014 - the property is taken  off the market  while  there are discussions 
between Bank of Scotland and the other lender  about marketing  and the split of the 
proceeds.
-5 August 2015 - marketing of the property starts again at £335,000.
-22 September 2015 - the price  is reduced  to £325,000.
-19 October 2015 - sale is agreed - following 26 viewings and one viewing party 
making five offers  increasing from £275,000 to £310,000  the latter  is accepted.
-15 December 2015- the sale completes leaving a shortfall of £126,990.84 for the 
borrowing of Bank  of Scotland. The other lender  receives its share and writes off its 
remaining debt.
-December 2016- contact from Mr and Mrs B is noted with a complaint about  the 
barns being sold and about  the money paid to the other lender.
my assessment 
Mr and Mrs B originally  had lending with the other  lender  secured over the property.  They 
sold a different property  to repay  some  borrowing  to that lender. It seemed  to be the 
intention that this lender would be fully repaid and so Bank  of Scotland would get a first 
charge over the property in question here. For reasons that are not totally  clear that did not 
happen. The result  was that both lenders had a charge over the whole property. An 
agreement was signed in 2010  which as far as I could see gave  the other lender priority over 
part of the property and Bank of Scotland priority over the rest. That was an unusual 
arrangement and the implications several years  later were  likely not well understood at the 
time of repossession.
It was clear to me that the title was never split. And Bank of Scotland  was entitled to apply 
for possession of the whole property under its charge. Thats  what it did and it therefore 
could take possession. There is a note of it having  contact with the other lender in May 2014 
with initial  agreement to market all the property together in the way Id set out above.
Ref: DRN13642163I agreed with our investigator that Bank of Scotland took steps to obtain appropriate 
assessments of the value of the property sold either  in parts  or as a whole. 
It was clear from the evidence Id seen that there was a dispute  with the other  lender over 
the respective  shares of the sale proceeds  of the property for nearly  a year.  During that 
period no marketing took place but interest  and costs continued to accrue. The new 
marketing price in August  2015 was again  informed by professional  opinion.  There  is no 
indication, when comparing  prices  in August 2014  and August 2015,  that there had been any 
significant overall market  movement.
In my provisional view the delay  in marketing was unreasonable  and I intended to require 
Bank of Scotland to compensate Mr and Mrs B for this. I considered this issue was one that 
could have been anticipated once  legal proceedings had commenced  and ought to have 
been resolved  more  quickly.  It should  not disadvantage  Mr and Mrs B. But in contrast  I knew  
though that I was going to disappoint them when I said that I didnt think Bank of Scotland 
should have decided not to sell part of the property. It clearly  had detailed discussions with 
the other lender about this. It had possession of the property. The issue  of the two charges 
arose from lending  freely  taken by Mr and Mrs B from both lenders secured against the 
same title. 
Bank of Scotland was in contact with Mr and Mrs B before the eviction which  was 
reasonable. I didnt  think  it had cause to realise they had personal possessions in the barns.  
Had it done so I thought  it would have advised them to empty  that property - and there  was a 
period of 20 months before  sale for them to arrange  to do so. I didnt think there was any 
further requirement for it to contact them before sale.  The other lender clearly knew the 
position and formed  its own view about  the proposed sale. I didnt see any basis for Mr and 
Mrs B reasonably to think that there was any agreement from Bank of Scotland for them  to 
develop the barns. And they did not appear to be in a position  to do so at time and so it does 
not seem  that they had taken any such steps.
I didnt find that the process for the sale of the property to be unfair, save for the impact of 
the delay. There  were two periods of marketing  and I didnt have a basis  to find that Bank of 
Scotland acted  unreasonably in accepting  the offer when it did. As the investigator has said 
costs continued  to build up and marketing  had been guided by professional  opinion.
financial compensation
At the time of the Court hearing for possession the debt to Bank of Scotland was quoted as 
£292,812.38. The closing  statement from Bank of Scotland says that this had risen  by the 
time of sale to £322,673.03 due to interest and costs. The statement separately gave the 
costs of a repossession  contractor of £7,501.20. I asked Bank of Scotland  for the interest 
rate on the borrowing  and it said it could not provide this. It appeared to me to be in the order 
of five per cent per annum.
I intended to require Bank of Scotland to rework the borrowing and stop interest from 22 
August 2014 to 5 August  2015.  This can then start again to the date of sale.  This will result  
in a reduction in the final balance. In addition I said I was going to require it to reduce the 
costs of the contractor  applied  by £3,500.  I didnt intend to ask it to work out the detailed 
contractor costs by month when  no action was being  taken. Thats especially as I would 
expect there  to have  been legal costs arising too from the ongoing  dispute.  And finally this 
protracted matter has caused Mr and Mrs B distress and I intended to award them  £400  to 
be paid directly for this. I also finally mentioned that as the other  lender  wrote off the 
Ref: DRN13642164remaining debt then even  if it applied interest on that borrowing during the period of delay I 
didnt see on the evidence there  was a loss to Mr and Mrs B. And I could only consider the 
actions of Bank of Scotland here and what it can reasonably be responsible for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland said it accepted my recommendations.  It had nothing  further  to add about 
the delay in the property  sale. It did not provide any calculations at this stage.
Mr and Mrs B did not think that the compensation was sufficient. They  said that they wished 
theyd been able to afford  legal advice at the time of the repossession.  Mr and Mrs B 
maintain their understanding that they were  only giving up the part of the property excluding 
the two barns at the hearing. They understood the other lender still had a charge  over that 
part of the property. They think that they are being  persecuted because  they did not have 
that knowledge about the extent of the repossession. It was never brought to their attention 
that the title had not been split. With hindsight they wished theyd taken up residence  in the 
barns but for a number of personal and financial reasons  were  not able to do so.
They did not receive any correspondence  from Bank of Scotland  during April 2014 and they 
returned to this country in May 2014  to find the locks changed and the barns boarded  up and 
had to live with relatives. They said they could  not get in touch with anyone  to retrieve 
belongings as they did not have  any contact details until 2016. 
Mr and Mrs B said that they have  no way of repaying the outstanding  debt and this will lead 
to their bankruptcy.
I understand the strong feelings  Mr and Mrs B have about what happened and the personal 
impact on them of the property being  repossessed  and then sold. In my provisional view I 
dealt with the complaint in stages. Im going  to review my main findings  taking  into account 
their comments.
As I said there  was an arrangement that they were  party to which  dealt with the legal charge 
and priorities between  Bank of Scotland and the other lender. They  were  fairly bound by 
that. 
It is clear that the other lender was not repaid   when  a different property was sold,  even if 
that was what Mr and Mrs B wanted. The circumstances  as to why are not something I can 
consider as part of a complaint about Bank  of Scotland. 
The whole property  was repossessed following court proceedings. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs B 
said that they did not fully understand those proceedings. But I cannot go behind the order of 
a court  and nor have I any evidence in any event  to suggest that Bank of Scotland  made  a 
mistake. Theres nothing to show that even if Mr and Mrs B had taken their own steps to gain 
full knowledge  of the proceedings  that there were grounds to stop repossession and then 
sale of the whole property. I dont find Bank of Scotland  acted unreasonably.
In their latest  comments they seem to be saying they were aware the barns were boarded up 
from May 2014. Im afraid I still dont accept  that they didnt have the opportunity  then to take 
steps to recover their personal possessions even if the immediate contact details for Bank of 
Ref: DRN13642165Scotland were  not available to them. And I think by that stage the intentions of Bank  of 
Scotland for the whole property became reasonably  clear. I dont see any requirement for it 
to communicate  further about this with them.
I remain of the view that there was an unreasonable delay in the sale of the property. And 
thats something that Bank of Scotland does not challenge especially as it cannot help 
explain this any further. But I do think that the marketing,  when  it did take place, was 
reasonable, and that it was fair for the offer to have been accepted. This means that I see no 
reason to depart from the findings of my provisional decision. I would expect Bank of 
Scotland to deal fairly with Mr and Mrs B when discussing plans  for repayment of their 
outstanding debt.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Bank of Scotland  plc to:
1)Rework the borrowing  and stop interest  from 22 August 2014 to 5 August 2015. This 
can then be applied  again to the date of sale.
2)Reduce the costs of the contractor by £3,500.
3)Use (1) and (2) to provide a revised closing  balance for the loan to determine  Mr and 
Mrs Bs outstanding borrowing from the shortfall.
4)Pay, not credit, Mr and Mrs B £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1364216