K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) have refused to uphold a 
complaint he made to them,  under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974), in relation  
to a hotel and flight booking that he says was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr S made a booking  through  a third party website Ill call L paying £1,010.95 with his 
Tesco credit  card in October  2017.  He booked a hotel  and flights  but, after he booked,  the 
hotel contacted him and told him he was liable for service charges of $135 per night. 
He was disappointed by this and thought  the deal had been misrepresented to him. He 
raised his claim with L but was dissatisfied with their response,  so he contacted Tesco.
He said under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) (section 75) they were  jointly  
liable for his claim and he wanted them to refund the money he had subsequently spent on 
alternative accommodation.
But Tesco declined his claim. They noted that the service charges were mentioned in the 
additional information provided  on Mr Ss booking form and they couldnt agree that the 
booking had therefore been misrepresented to Mr S.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
explained that for a claim to be successful under section 75 there needed to be an unbroken 
chain between the consumer (Mr S), the supplier (the hotel)  and the creditor (Tesco).  He 
said that although Mr S paid through a third party provider, it may be, if the hotel booking 
was part of a package holiday,  that the chain  wasnt broken. But in these particular 
circumstances the adjudicator  thought  it was clear the hotel and flights were separate items  
as Ls terms and conditions explained they were part of a link travel  arrangement  which is 
two single products  rather than a package. So he didnt think  Tesco had been unfair as he 
thought the debtor, creditor, supplier chain  had been broken.
But Mr S disagreed with the adjudicator and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
Ref: DRN17985232when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider 
as against the supplier  if there's either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation  by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So the creditor, Tesco in this case,  must have a relevant relationship with the 
supplier of the goods and thats not the case here as the payment was made to L and not 
the supplier (the hotel).
A package  holiday  is however;  different  because, by law, on package holidays the agent is 
also liable for breaches of contract by the suppliers of the accommodation, flights  and certain 
other tourist services. So in this scenario it wouldn't matter if the credit card payment went to 
L instead of the hotel. 
But Im persuaded  that here the hotel and flights were separate  items as Ls terms and 
conditions explained  they were part of a link travel arrangement which  is two single  products  
rather than a package. And in those circumstances  I think Tesco  hasnt done anything  wrong 
and Im persuaded they neednt take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1798523