K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs N under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that she signed in May 2018.  About three months later Mrs N was having problems with the 
car and a clutch actuator fault was identified by a garage. Mrs N paid £1,100 to that garage 
for the repair and a service (of which £832.71  was for the repair). 
She then complained to MotoNovo Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert  in October 2018.  Issues  with the cars brakes,  tyres,  steering and 
exhaust were identified and it paid for those repairs. It also said that it would pay £25 a day 
for two weeks for Mrs N to hire a courtesy  car and reimburse £50 to her for the cost of the 
diagnostic report.  But the car broke-down again  two weeks later when  it was being driven on 
the motorway and Mrs N paid £372.63  for a split drive belt to be replaced. So she 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that repairs to a 
clutch actuator fault and a split drive belt were  required within six months  of the car being 
supplied to Mrs N, the cars mileage  was less than 30,000  miles and he was of the view that 
the issues were present  or developing at the point of sale.  So he recommended  that 
MotoNovo Finance should reimburse Mrs N for the repair costs  of £832.71 and £372.63  and 
that it should pay her £250 compensation for the trouble and upset that shed  been  caused.
Mrs N accepted the investigators recommendation but MotoNovo Finance has asked for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that:
the first repair was unauthorised;
the clutch actuator  needed replacing  within 2,500 miles but Mrs N didnt contact it 
about that fault and theres  no evidence  provided  to show  that it was present  at the 
point of sale so it shouldnt be held accountable for it (and its never received proof  of 
payment); and 
the car was second-hand, first registered  in November 2011 and was bought  by 
Mrs N in May 2018 but the belt wouldve already been deteriorating as its a wear  and 
tear item.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age, and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mrs N was more than six years old, had been  driven for 27,000 miles and had a price of 
£4,295. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN17248722Mrs N first had problems  with the car about three months after it was supplied  to her. A 
garage diagnosed a clutch  actuator fault in September 2018 and she paid £1,100 for that to 
be repaired  and a service  (of which £832.71  was for the repair). The cars mileage at that 
time was recorded on the invoice as being  29,721  miles.  And I consider it to be more likely  
than not the fault with the clutch  actuator  was present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mrs N so the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at that time. And I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance to pay her £832.71 to reimburse her for the 
cost of the repair (with interest).
Mrs N then became aware  that she could complain to MotoNovo Finance. It arranged for the 
car to be inspected by an independent expert in October 2018. Issues with the cars brakes, 
tyres, steering and exhaust were  identified and the inspection report  concluded  that, on a 
balance of probability, those conditions wouldve been developing at finance inception.  So 
MotoNovo Finance agreed to pay for those repairs. And it said that it would pay £25 a day 
for two weeks for Mrs N to hire a courtesy  car and reimburse £50 to her for the cost of the 
diagnostic report.
But the car broke down on the motorway only a few weeks after the repairs  had been  
completed and a split drive belt was identified. Mrs N paid £372.63 for the drive belt to be 
replaced. Technical  service bulletins refer to this as being a known fault with this make  and 
model of car. The car was about  seven years old when it broke-down   but it was less than 
six months after the car had been  supplied  to Mrs N. And I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for MotoNovo Finance  to also pay her £372.63 to 
reimburse her for the cost of that repair (with interest).
These events will have  caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mrs N. And I find 
that it would  also be fair and reasonable for it to pay her £250 to compensate  her for that 
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. And I order  FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.Pay £832.71 and £372.63 to Mrs N to reimburse her for the repair costs that shes  
incurred.
2.Pay interest on those  amounts  at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of each  
payment to the date of settlement.
3.Pay £250 to Mrs N to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 2 above. MotoNovo Finance  must  give Mrs N a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Ref: DRN17248723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1724872