K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight instalment loans Satsuma provided  to Mr B between May 2017  
and June 2019. Mr B borrowed amounts ranging between  £150 and £1,000  to be repaid in 
monthly instalments  over periods of between four and twelve months. There  were no 
significant breaks in the borrowing and the repayments for the loans sometimes overlapped 
so that Mr B had several repayments to make each month. From what I can see, there  are 
amounts outstanding for loans six to eight.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Satsuma disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision. Mr B asked  me to consider compensation for the stress caused him 
by Satsumas late responses during his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN13758202Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Satsuma asked Mr B for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. For loans one to four, Mr B said his monthly income was £1,750. He said his 
outgoings were  £800  a month, but Satsuma increased this to take into account  what  it 
thought about his likely outgoings. This left Mr B with a disposable income sufficient to cover 
his instalment repayments even where  they overlapped. 
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time and his history with Satsuma, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr B provided or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr B was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Satsuma to provide loans 
one to four. 
But I think Satsuma should have made  better checks from loan five onwards. Loan  five was 
Mr Bs fifth in over a year of continuous  borrowing  and the amount had increased.  So I think  
Satsuma should  have asked further  questions and verified Mr Bs finances  to ensure he 
could sustainably repay his loan. As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check  for 
loan five would most  likely have shown that Mr B was having problems managing his money:
Loan five overlapped  with loan four and this was the highest amount hed borrowed to 
date. 
Mr B had outstanding  payments due for five other short-term loans with other  lenders 
when he asked Satsuma for loan five.
So I think Satsuma should have reasonably realised that Mr B would be unable to 
sustainably repay  loan five and any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
Ref: DRN13758203By loan six, the pattern of Mr Bs borrowing suggested that he was persistently  reliant  on 
short-term loans.  This was his sixth loan in 19 months and the amounts hadnt 
significantly decreased.  From  loan six onwards Mr B was provided with a new loan 
before settling the previous one. So Satsuma ought  to have realised  it was more likely 
than not Mr B was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma.  Loan  eight was 
taken out two years after Mr Bs first. And it was for a similar amount. Mr B had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Satsuma over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans five to eight  and I think Satsuma should put 
things right.
Mr B asked for consideration to be given to the additional  stress caused him by Satsumas  
late responses during  the complaint process.  I can understand that this caused Mr B 
frustration and added to his stress. But I think we make some allowance  for businesses to 
respond to our requirements. 
Mr B said Satsuma didnt respond  to his complaint within the required eight weeks.  From 
what I can see, Mr B first complained to Satsuma  on 11 October 2018 and it provided its 
response on 8 November 2018.  Mr B complained about his further loans on 16 May 2019 
and Satsuma provided its response on about 29 July 2019, which is outside the eight week  
requirement. But I can see that Satsuma had provided Mr B with his referral rights  to ours 
service if it couldnt meet  this target, which is what Id expect. So I dont require Satsuma to 
provide Mr B with further compensation. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans five to eight and waive any 
outstanding; this refund should be offset against  the principal Mr B owes for loans six to 
eight and an affordable repayment plan agreed  to clear  the balance;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Bs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  six to eight should  be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
Ref: DRN13758204 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  to pay Mr B compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1375820