K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  from BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
background
Mr M was supplied  with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. 
After collecting the car Mr M noticed a crack in the windscreen and interior  scuffs  on the 
passenger front door panel.
Mr M contacted BMWFS  and asked to reject  the car. In its final response, BMWFS said it 
found no evidence  that the issues were present at the point of supply. It offered to replace 
the windscreen free of charge as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the issues  with the car were  likely to 
have been present at the point of supply and wouldve  been  visible  to Mr M. She also said 
the issues didnt  make the car of unsatisfactory  quality. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said hed asked to reject the car within  the first 14 days  and wanted to 
return it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car, the 
price paid, fitness for purpose,  safety  and durability.  I would expect a second  hand car, such 
as that supplied to Mr M, to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold  this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that there  is an inherent fault with the car which 
makes it of unsatisfactory  quality, as opposed to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  a consumer has an immediate  right to reject  a  car 
within 30 days of purchase if a fault is found.
I can see that Mr M asked to reject the car within the first 30 days. In considering his 
complaint, Ive thought about  whether the issues with the car are inherent  faults  which make 
the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Ive had regard  to the fact that the car was over 3 years old and had covered over 57,000 
miles at the point of supply. Id expect a car of this age and mileage  to have a degree of 
wear and tear, which might well include scuffs  and scratches both internally and externally.
Ive looked at the photos provided by Mr M. These show a chip on the windscreen  and 
interior damage. As Ive already said , Id expect a car of this age and mileage to have some 
wear and tear. Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely that the damage was present at the 
point of supply.  but I dont  think  the damage makes the car of unsatisfactory quality, because  
Ref: DRN13640412a chipped windscreen and interior scuffs are more likely to be wear and tear issues  than 
inherent defects.
Because of this, Im unable to conclude  that Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
I appreciate that the chip in the screen  could potentially be a safety  issue. Looking at the 
photos, I can see that the chip is on the passenger side.  The car passed  an MOT just before 
it was supplied to Mr M. If the chip obscured the drivers line of vision  then the car wouldnt 
have passed the MOT. On balance, Im satisfied  that theres no safety issue.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think the issues  with the car are faults which make the 
car of unsatisfactory quality. The issues are wear  and tear issues, which  is to be expected in 
a  car of this age and mileage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1364041