K820x#14complaint
Mr C says that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr C or Lloyds sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject 
my decision  before 24 February 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy with a mortgage 
and further advance in 1994.
background
Ref: DRN10535642Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in March 1994 and further advance  in May 1994. He paid 
a monthly amount for both policies.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Due to the time thats passed since the PPI was taken out, theres very little paperwork now available  
for me to consider. In situations like this, Ive to consider the available evidence  before deciding  what I 
think is more  likely than not to have happened. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint  because:
For the first sale, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage  agreement. It makes  reference to home  
insurance being necessary with the mortgage. But theres no reference to PPI being a 
requirement.  
For the second sale,  Ive seen another document that has a section with an option to request 
a quote for PPI. Near  this section its also been handwritten Already have.      But its not 
clear if the note is referring to PPI or the financial commitments section below.
So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mr C. In order for me to uphold  this 
complaint for this reason, Id have to think  that Mr Cs account  was more likely than that of 
Lloyds. 
But as these events happened so long ago and as theres very little documentary evidence to 
support either partys position, I have  to conclude  that Mr Cs account  is only as likely not 
more likely . So on balance I cannot  safely conclude that the PPI wasnt presented as optional 
or that Mr C wasnt given a choice to take PPI.
Although Mr C has said that he was told to take PPI by the adviser, its possible that, as this 
was a sale where  Lloyds were making  a recommendation  to take PPI, the adviser may have  
said that Mr C should take PPI. But this is very different to the adviser saying that he had to 
take PPI.
Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mr C, so it had to take reasonable steps to check   that the 
PPI was right for him. Mr C says that the policy  wasnt right for him due to his existing means 
of making his repayments.  Hes said that he had:
 
oovertime through his work. But although Mr C has said that overtime  was offered,  
there was no guarantee  of it. And, if Mr C was unwell and unable to work,  he wouldnt 
be able to work overtime.
ohis redundancy.  But Mr C hadnt been  employed  for very long at the time of sale,  so 
its unlikely that his redundancy entitlement would  have been very much.
osavings worth  £3,000. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time of sale, the PPI would have paid out for longer than his savings likely would  have 
lasted.
Ref: DRN10535643oassets that he could sell. Having  this PPI policy would mean that Mr C wouldnt have 
to sell his assets to make his mortgage repayments. And theres no guarantee that 
his assets  would  easily  be converted  into cash that he could use.
oequity  in property. But the equity  may not have been readily accessible. The value of 
the equity could also have changed based  on a wide range of  factors.
Ive also considered what Mr C has told us about his possible pre-existing medical conditions 
at the time of sale. But based on what hes told us, I think that the chances of him needing to 
claim for his PEMCs were low as the conditions dont seem to have impacted his day to day 
life too much. I think Mr C still would  have wanted to covered for all the other conditions that 
might mean  he was unwell and unable  to work for potentially a lot longer. 
So, having carefully  considered everything, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI 
was suitable and the PPI was right for him, as I think Mr C had a need for the protection that it 
offered.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr C would still have bought it  for the reasons Ive already explained.  
Its possible  that Lloyds didnt draw the PEMC exclusion to Mr Cs attention. But for the 
reasons Ive already  explained, I dont think better information wouldve changed  Mr Cs 
decision about taking  PPI.
Its also possible that Lloyds  didnt point out the other main things  the PPI didnt  cover. But Mr 
C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about  not being told about other 
polices sold by other businesses. 
But Lloyds werent obliged to tell Mr C about other policies sold by other businesses.  As      Mr C paid 
for this PPI by a monthly premium, he could cancel  it at any time if his circumstances changed  or he 
no longer wanted the PPI. So these points dont change my decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
If either Mr C or Lloyds Bank PLC have anything further to add, they should do so by                        
15 December 2018. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1053564