K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that A Shade Greener  (Boilers)  LLP has charged him for an engineers visit 
that he considers  should have been covered under his Boiler Replacement  Agreement.
background
Mr H purchased a boiler from A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG) in 2014, under a 
finance agreement. The boiler came with a Boiler  Replacement  Agreement. Under the 
terms of the Boiler Replacement Agreement  a power flush  was to be performed on Mr Hs 
system before the boiler was installed.  Mr H says this wasnt done.
The contract between  Mr H and ASG specifies that ASG is responsible for maintenance and 
service of the boiler, including  an annual service. Its Mr Hs responsibility  to maintain the 
rest of his heating system, such as radiators and pipework. The contract  says that ASG will 
endeavour to respond to repair calls as soon as possible,  but doesnt  specify anything about  
payment for such calls.
In March 2018, Mr H noticed an issue with his hot water. He rang ASG, who arranged for a 
third party engineering firm to visit him. Ill call this firm V.
ASG told Mr H that should V diagnose  the problem as being  outside the warranty, hed be 
charged £100 for the visit, plus VAT and the cost of any parts.  Mr H didnt query this.
There was some delay in arranging Vs visit and it eventually attended Mr Hs property in 
June 2018. It found  the problem was debris that had accumulated  around  the plate heat 
exchanger, preventing the boiler  working  properly. The heat exchanger  was replaced and 
the engineer completed a report that said the call was non-warranty. Mr H signed this 
report.
ASG proceeded  to charge  Mr H £232.80, in line with its procedure  for non-warranty repairs.  
Mr H disputed the charge.  He said there  had never been a power  flush at installation  as 
agreed. He felt a magnetic water treatment device  that was designed to prevent lime scale 
and corrosion hadnt been fitted correctly  he believes  its situated  too close to the boiler, 
against the manufacturers recommendations.
Mr H has explained that he regularly cleans and maintains his heating  system. He also 
believes that the agreement he signed  means  ASG has responsibility  for any problems that 
arise with the boiler, however caused.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and upheld  it in Mr Hs favour.  They said 
they didnt think  the agreement between  Mr H and ASG  made  clear  that the Boiler 
Replacement Agreement wouldnt apply if the problem originated from Mr Hs heating 
system (rather than the boiler itself).
ASG didnt accept  this view. As agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaints been  
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16463002Its not in dispute  that the cause of the problem  was debris clogging part of the boiler. ASG 
says that could only have come  from Mr Hs heating system  which is his responsibility to 
maintain. Mr H, as far as I can see, doesnt deny this. But he does say there  was no power 
flush done as agreed when  the boiler  was installed.  Had the power  flush been done, its 
likely there would have  been less debris and the clogging wouldnt have occurred.
ASG has said the heating system was flushed  when  the boiler was installed. Its provided  the 
installation report to show this, which Mr H signed  at the time. However, I note this report 
describes a manual flush having  been  performed (my emphasis)  not a power  flush as set 
out in the agreement between ASG and Mr H.
My understanding is that a manual flush, while  it will remove some debris, is not as effective 
or as lasting as a power flush.  So I think ASGs failure to carry out a power flush as agreed 
has probably had some impact on the state  of Mr Hs heating  system  and has most likely 
contributed to the problem with the boiler.
Mr H has also referred  to a magnetic water treatment device that he believes is located too 
close to the boiler.  Neither Mr H nor ASG have  disclosed the make of the device used in 
Mr Hs installation. But ASG has pointed out the installation requirements under the Water 
Regulations Advisory Scheme dont mention a minimum  distance. And having  viewed a 
number of installation  guidelines for similar devices, I havent  found a minimum distance 
recommendation. So while I accept Mr Hs point that the positioning of the device may have 
contributed to the build-up of debris, I cant say ASG  has done anything wrong in installing  it 
that way.
Ive thought about what happened at the annual boiler services.  Mr H says the filter and 
concentration of cleaning  fluid wasnt checked. I havent seen anything  to make me doubt  
this. And I agree  with Mr H that had this been  done,  its possible the build-up  would have  
been spotted at an earlier stage  before it caused  a problem. 
Mr H says he regularly maintained his heating system and has described  the steps hes 
taken to do so. Hes provided invoices showing the chemicals and accessories hes 
purchased to do this. So I think hes taken reasonable steps to maintain the heating  system.
I understand why ASG  initially decided to treat this as a non-warranty call. And I appreciate 
its argument that if a problem  stems  from a consumers failure  to maintain their heating  
system as required, ASG  doesnt feel it should be held liable. But on further  investigation, 
I dont think this case is so straightforward. I havent  seen anything  to make me think Mr H 
did neglect his heating system. I have seen some instances where I think ASG  could have  
done more to reduce the build-up of debris around  the boiler and so avoid the problem 
altogether.
So in this particular  set of circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for ASG to 
treat the call as a visit covered by the boiler warranty.  If Mr H has already paid the additional 
charge, this should be refunded to him.
Ref: DRN16463003my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against A Shade Greener (Boilers) 
LLP. If Mr H has already paid the charge of £232.80,  this should be refunded  to him. 
A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP should  also add 8% simple interest  to the payment, from the 
date Mr H paid it to the date of refund1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
1 If A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1646300