K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Takepayments Limited  (trading as Payzone  UK Limited)  mis-sold a 
hire agreement for a card payments terminal.
background
In November 2018 Mrs G, a sole trader, hired  a new card payments terminal from Payzone,  
replacing her old one with another provider.  This was because  Payzones salesman told her she 
could save money. But she thought  she would  have to pay the merchant acquirer  fees of £30 a 
month, and was surprised  when those  fees turned out to be £90 a month. She complained  that 
she had not been told about hidden charges, and she had not been shown the agreements 
before she signed  them,  and therefore  the terminal had therefore been mis-sold.
Payzone did not accept that it had done  anything wrong, as it said Mrs G had signed 
agreements for three accounts at a monthly cost of £30 each.  But as a gesture of good will, 
it offered to let her have one of the accounts for free, and to refund two months  worth  of 
fees. Mrs G did not accept that offer, because she had lost confidence in Payzone. In 
December she returned the terminal. In February 2019, Payzone terminated her agreement. 
It has since instructed a debt collection agency  to collect  her arrears.
Mrs G brought this complaint to our Service, but our adjudicator  did not uphold it, saying that 
the charges had been clear. Mrs G said they had not been clear, and that she had been  
provided with a service  she didnt  want  for mail orders and telephone orders (MOTO),  
which her business  did not use as all orders are made online. (The MOTO  account  was the 
account Payzone had offered to let her have for free.) She asked for an ombudsman  to 
review her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
(I have noted the correspondence between Payzone and our adjudicator about our Services 
jurisdiction to consider  this complaint.  I dont  believe that this is still contentious, but I will 
briefly deal with it here for completeness. Our jurisdiction arises from the alleged  mis-sale of 
the hire agreement for the payment terminal. Our Service  does not have rules  of evidence, 
so we can still consider  what the salesman told Mrs G about the charges on the related 
merchant acquiring  agreements for the purpose  of deciding whether  the hire agreement was 
mis-sold. If Mrs G would not have agreed  to enter the merchant acquiring agreements, then 
she also would not have entered the terminal  hire agreement.)
Payzone said it would  not charge Mrs G for the hire of the terminal  for the first twelve months 
of the agreement, because she was switching to Payzone from another  provider. So the £90 of 
monthly charges  was made up as follows.  £30 was for the card acceptance account. £60 was 
for two separate online services, £30 for each service. One of those online services was the 
MOTO account. All of those three fees were to be paid to a third party, the merchant acquirer.
Ref: DRN12445362I have seen the agreements which include these charges,  and I agree that the charges were 
properly incurred and charged. But Mrs Gs complaint  is not about that; its about the salesman 
not telling  her about these charges in the first place. She says she would  not have agreed to 
switch to Payzone if she had known she would be paying £90 a month, because that is more 
than she was paying her original provider. She only switched because  the salesman told her 
she would  save money. She says the salesman didnt show her the agreements before she 
signed them.  He just ticked the relevant boxes on his computer himself, generating the 
agreements, and then gave her the computer  just for her to sign them.
Payzone and our adjudicator said that as Payzone emailed the agreements to Mrs G, and 
there was a five day cooling-off period in which she could have read and cancelled  them,  
she had thereby accepted the contracts, whatever happened during the salesmans visit. 
I certainly agree that Mrs G should  have read the contracts,  but I can also understand why 
she didnt  she thought she already knew what she had agreed to, based on her 
conversation with the salesman. So Im not convinced that just emailing the contracts to 
Mrs G should automatically get Payzone off the hook, if its salesman did mislead her. That 
would just be making the consumer responsible  for the businesss alleged error.
However, I dont think Mrs G really thought she was going to only be charged £30 a month.  
I think that for the following  reasons.  Firstly, she clearly signed more than one agreement, 
and I think she must  have known she was signing  more than one agreement. Secondly,  in 
an email to the adjudicator on 18 June 2019,  Mrs G said she had asked the salesman for 
two accounts. Since I agree it was clear  that each  account would cost £30, I think  she must 
have expected to pay £60 a month.
Even assuming that the salesman misled  Mrs G into signing up to a third account  without her 
understanding that was what she was doing,  this matter would have been rectified if Mrs G 
had accepted Payzones offer to let her have  the third account  for free. That would have put 
her in the same financial position she thought she was going to be in in the first place.  (In 
fact, it would have  been a slightly  better position, because  she would have continued to have 
the third account  for free, instead  of not having  it at all.) I understand that she refused this 
offer because shed  lost confidence in Payzone by then, but her hire agreement  did not allow 
her to change her mind  and cancel the agreement  until after eighteen months.  Payzone 
wasnt obliged to let her do that early. So I think that Payzones response to Mrs Gs 
complaint was reasonable. It had offered to solve  her problem,  and I think  that was enough. 
Under the agreements, Payzone had the right to terminate the agreements  when she 
stopped making  payments (after giving  her seven days  advance  warning, which  it did). The 
terms and conditions of the agreements make  it clear that any charges due under the 
contracts will continue to be due and payable after the contracts have been terminated for 
any reason. So although I appreciate  that the reason Mrs G stopped making payments was 
because of her dissatisfaction with what the salesman did, I dont think  that Payzone  made 
an error when it responded by terminating the agreements and instructing a collection 
agency to pursue the arrears. It was entitled  to do so.
Ref: DRN12445363my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1244536