K820x#14complaint
Mrs I says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her and her husband, the late Mr I, payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs I took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1999  but no PPI was added to their 
account at that time. In 2000 Mr and Mrs I took out a further advance on their mortgage and 
PPI was added to their account then.
The PPI policy covered Mr I and wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident, sickness or unemployment  claim he made.
Mrs I says her husband would never have agreed to the PPI  she says she and he were  
both covered for sick pay being in full-time employment. Mrs I also says her husband  didnt 
agree to insurance on anything.
The adjudicator who looked at this complaint  didnt  uphold it. Mrs I disagrees and so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know  this will disappoint Mrs I 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs I they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. Nationwide says Mr and Mrs I wouldve chosen to buy the cover and 
that it wasnt compulsory.  It doesnt  have any paperwork from the time to show  this  but I 
dont think thats  surprising, given how long ago the sale was. Mrs I says she and her 
husband would never have agreed  to PPI. But Mrs Is recollections  of the sale arent detailed 
 which, again,  isnt surprising  and, sadly, Mr I has now passed away.
To uphold  Mrs Is complaint on this point, Id have to think it was more likely than not 
Nationwide added the PPI to Mr and Mrs Is account  without their consent. The information 
Ive got on this complaint  which is very limited  isnt strong enough for me to think  this 
would be a fair and reasonable conclusion. Mr and Mrs I didnt buy PPI when they took out 
their original mortgage  or when they took out subsequent further advances. While its 
possible PPI was added to their account without their consent  when they took out their 
further advance  in 2000, I think  its more  likely   particularly bearing in mind what we know 
generally about how Nationwide sold these policies with mortgages at around this time  
they agreed to it knowing they didnt have to because, at the time, they wanted it.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs I. Mrs I cant remember  if she 
and her husband were  given a recommendation. Again, from what we know  generally about  
how Nationwide sold PPI with mortgages  around  this time, I think  its likely Nationwide  didnt 
recommend it. That means  it didnt  need  to make  sure it was right for Mr and Mrs I. But it did 
Ref: DRN18175732need to give them enough clear information about  the PPI for them  to be able to make  that 
decision themselves  in an informed way.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs I all the clear information  it shouldve  about 
the PPI. But that doesnt mean  I should  automatically uphold the complaint. Instead I must 
think about whether   if everything had been  made  as clear to them as it shouldve  been  
this wouldve  stopped them from going ahead with it. From  what Mrs I says of her and her 
husbands circumstances at the time and from the policy details Ive got, I dont think it 
wouldve changed their decision. I say this because:
I think Mr I was eligible for the PPI and I havent seen anything to make me think he 
couldnt have  made  a successful claim if hed needed to.
Mrs I says she and her husband  got sick pay (although, understandably, she cant  
remember the details  of Mr Is sick pay) and their sons  wouldve helped  them  out if 
necessary. But a mortgage  is a significant and long-term  financial  commitment, 
secured on your home  which is at risk if you fall behind  on your mortgage 
repayments. And the PPI Mr I had  as Ive mentioned  wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months not only if he was sick or had had an accident but also if 
he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out on top of Mr and Mrs Is sick pay  which  they 
mightve needed for other things.  So I think the PPI couldve given Mr and Mrs I 
important peace of mind if things  got difficult. And although Im sure their sons 
wouldve helped if they could, family  help cant always be guaranteed and isnt the 
same as having an insurance  policy to fall back on.
I dont know when  the cost of the PPI was first made clear to Mr and Mrs I but I think  
it was apparently affordable. And they could cancel it without further  cost at any 
stage if they no longer  wanted  it (and it seems Mr and Mrs I did this in 2005).
So, overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs I have  lost out because of anything Nationwide may 
have done wrong  and so I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1817573