K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) have failed to properly support a claim 
she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
background
In July 2017 Mrs M bought two three seater  sofas  and a two seater sofa from a retailer  Ill 
call D. She paid a deposit of £500  and financed the remaining £3,408  though a fixed  sum 
loan with Ikano.
She had problems with the sofas  and complained  to D in December  2017.  She said the 
sofas werent of satisfactory quality. A report was obtained from an independent  expert who 
said:
the consumers complaint is justified. The technician has inspected all three sofas and can 
confirm they are poor quality products. The materials which have been used  are poor, the 
arm fittings securing  the arms to the frame are not conventional fittings, and from all the 
seating areas the stitching of the patchwork  is gaping and grinning, where the edges of the 
materials have frayed.  The damage to one of the arms cannot be concluded as a 
manufacturing fault because of the time the furniture has been  in the home,  concluding the 
damage to the arm could  have happened  within the local environment
Ikano said theyd offer £500 to settle Mrs Ms claim but she was dissatisfied  with their offer 
and therefore  referred  her complaint  to this service where our investigator  provided a view.  
He noted that the expert had suggested  Mrs Ms complaint was justified and that there were 
problems with the general construction; unconventional arm fittings and fraying of the 
material. He therefore  suggested that she should  be allowed to reject  the sofas and that the 
finance agreement  should be unwound  with nothing further to pay. He thought it fair that 
Ikano should also refund any payments Mrs M had made towards her finance  agreement 
from 25 January 2018, when he was persuaded shed  already  complained  about the 
unsatisfactory goods. He also thought Ikano should  refund  Mrs Ms £500 deposit.
Ikano didnt agree with the investigators view and they therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ikano but I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
Ref: DRN14867832same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the goods  should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory  if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. These were new 
items so I dont think a reasonable  person would expect any problems.
So Im persuaded  there has been a breach  of contract here and Im supported  in that finding  
by the independent  expert who has confirmed the complaint is justified. He says,  amongst 
other things,  that the materials are poor and theres gaping  and grinning  on the stitching. 
The independent expert has suggested that the faults are not repairable and Im therefore 
persuaded that the best course of action would now be to allow Mrs M to reject them and to 
get her money  back. Mrs M has had some, albeit limited use from the sofas and I therefore 
think Ikano should  be allowed  to retain  some  of the payments shes made towards her 
finance agreement. Mrs M didnt  report the problems until December and Im therefore  
persuaded to support the investigators suggestion that payments should be refunded  from 
January 2018  but earlier ones can be retained by Ikano. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
collect the sofas at no cost to Mrs M;
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund  all payments  made towards  the agreement from 25 January 2018;
refund  Mrs Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Ref: DRN14867833Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1486783