K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him packaged bank accounts.
background
Mr S originally opened a student account  at Lloyds in 1996 and he changed  to a Classic 
account in March 2003. These were both fee free bank accounts.  
Later on in 2003,  during a meeting in a Lloyds branch, Mr S upgraded his account  to a fee 
paying Select account. 
He upgraded to a Gold account (which  he also paid a monthly fee for) during a phone  call 
with Lloyds in 2006.
In 2008, Mr S changed to a Platinum account, which he paid a fee for.
Mr S downgraded to a fee free Club Lloyds account  on 18 May 2018.
Mr Ss main complaint is about charges hes incurred. He says hes also unhappy with the 
way that Lloyds sold him the accounts,  as if it was in his best interests to have this type of 
account. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He thought  the Select and Platinum accounts 
offered Mr S useful features and Lloyds hadnt mis-sold these accounts to Mr S. So our 
adjudicator didn't uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator did feel that Lloyds had incorrectly recommended  to Mr S that he should 
upgrade to the Gold account. He said that was because the Select  account  Mr S had at the 
time hed upgraded was appropriate for his needs  so he couldve just kept that. As Lloyds 
had already offered to refund Mr S the extra cost of having the Gold account our adjudicator 
thought that was fair to resolve this part of Mr Ss complaint.  
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view. He asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He also mentioned that he thinks he was paying for a packaged bank account as 
long ago as 2001.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
After thinking carefully about everything, Im not thinking about telling Lloyds to do any more 
than it has already offered to do. Ill explain why. 
Ive taken into account that Mr S thinks he held a packaged bank account in 2001. But I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to rely on Mr S being able to remember  exactly  what bank 
accounts he held 18 years ago. So what he says isn't enough on its own for me to be able to 
say hes right about this. 
Ref: DRN16569152Where theres disagreement about what happened, I have to look at all the available  
information and decide what I think is most likely.  Lloyds records  show  that Mr S didn't take 
out a fee paying packaged bank account until 2003. And I've no reason to think  that Lloyds 
records about this wouldnt be accurate  and shouldnt be relied  on. So, on balance,  I think 
its more likely that Mr S is mistaken about the date he first upgraded his account.  I think  this 
happened in 2003. So Ive looked carefully at what happened when he did this.
Select account 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr S was given a clear  choice about taking this 
account. Lloyds  was required to take reasonable steps to make Mr S aware that taking out 
this fee paying account was optional.
Mr S previously had a fee-free account with Lloyds. So I think  he wouldve known this was 
still available and that he couldve kept using a fee-free  account  if thats  what he had wanted.  
Looked at overall, I think Mr S understood that it was his choice to have the Select account 
and his account was upgraded with his agreement.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr S. If a business makes  a recommendation to a 
customer to buy a financial product, it has to take reasonable  steps to make sure that what it 
recommends is suitable. 
This account offered features that Mr S took advantage of. Mr S told us he drove  a vehicle 
and Lloyds said he made a claim on the car breakdown cover offered with this account in 
March 2005. It doesnt  look to me like Mr S had any other car breakdown insurance set up 
as he didn't provide any details about  this when we asked. As the Select account was the 
lowest fee account to offer car breakdown cover,  I think Lloyds recommendation for this 
account was fair. And the fact that Mr S relied on the car breakdown cover suggests he had 
a need for this.
Mr S also told us he owned a mobile phone. As it appears he didn't have any mobile phone 
insurance arranged,  I can see why Mr S mightve  felt this could be a useful account feature 
worth paying  for.  
Additionally this account offered a £50 fee-free and interest free overdraft . It appears  that 
this was a feature Mr S used. And I think he wouldve welcomed  the reduction in the amount 
of his overdraft costs.   
Given that Mr S was able to protect  his mobile  phone and benefit from the breakdown  cover  
and save some money on the overall  costs of being  overdrawn, I think  this account was 
suitable for his needs. 
It looks like Mr S wouldve been able to take advantage of all the main  benefits  available with 
the Select account.  So I dont think its likely  that having more information about  the various 
policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put him off taking  out this account. I think  he 
wouldve still chosen to sign up to the Select account  and that it proved worthwhile for him 
as hes been able to make  use of benefits it offered. 
Ref: DRN16569153Gold Account: would  continuing with the Select  have been a better recommendation?
When Mr S complained to Lloyds,  it said that the Select account wouldve still been suitable  
for Mr Ss needs when  it sold him the Gold account   and I agree. 
I think that Mr S still benefited from having some of the benefits  a packaged bank account 
offered. He made  a claim on the car breakdown service in May 2007.  As it seems he didnt 
have any stand-alone or existing cover that he could rely on in these circumstances, it looks 
like he still had a need for this cover.  And it looks like he continued to benefit  from the 
reduced overdraft rate above £50 that the Select account wouldve offered. 
So I think that Lloyds  is right to say that Mr S is out of pocket as he paid extra for the Gold  
account, over and above what he wouldve paid for the Select  account.  
Before Mr S brought  his complaint to us, Lloyds  had already offered to refund the difference 
in fees between the Gold and Select  account  which I think  is fair. 
Platinum Account  
I dont know exactly what mightve been  discussed  when  Mr S changed to a Platinum 
account. But I can see it offered features that its likely he was interested  in.
This account offered worldwide travel  insurance (with family cover  or winter sports for two 
people), AA breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance and Sentinel card protection.
The Platinum account offered some  extra benefits over and above the select  account 
including commission free travel money,  the option  to book discounted holidays, charter 
flights and cruises though Lloyds  TSB Travel service, and UK Airport  Lounge  access. 
The AA breakdown insurance that came with this account offered significantly better cover 
than was available under the Select account  - Roadside, Relay  and Home Start  in addition  to 
Accident Management  which was all that was available  with the Select  account.  Mr S had 
previously benefitted  from having AA breakdown insurance. So I think its likely that this 
additional cover  was something  he mightve wanted to have  at the time as he continued  to 
drive a vehicle.  
The Platinum account also offered  a £250 interest-free overdraft facility. Looking  at the way 
Mr S used his bank accounts, I think he found  it useful to be able to overdraw regularly. 
Based on all the information I've seen,  it looks like he quite often had a three figure 
overdraft. I think this particular account feature, which  offered  him the option  to go 
overdrawn on an interest free basis up to £250, wouldve been an important consideration 
for him. 
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr S and I dont think Ive seen enough information 
overall to make me think it was unsuitable  for him. 
Only this account offered Mr S the overdraft feature that the evidence suggests  was useful 
and worthwhile for him. And bearing in mind that Mr S didn't have any stand-alone or 
existing travel, mobile phone or car breakdown cover in place, I think its likely he had a need 
for these  benefits. 
Ref: DRN16569154Overall, taking into account the other  account  features that Mr S couldve reasonably 
expected he might want to take advantage of, I think Lloyds Platinum account was, broadly 
speaking, a fair recommendation for him. 
I havent seen  anything in his circumstances  to suggest that Mr S wouldve been  significantly 
affected by any of the policy limitations  at the time he agreed to upgrade.  So I dont think  
having more information about these wouldve put Mr S off the Platinum account. 
Ive looked at all the information provided  about  Mr Ss complaint.  And Ive thought  about 
everything hes said. Mr S said he was unhappy  about  the charges incurred on the Select, 
Gold and Platinum accounts. But as far as I can see, Lloyds applied  charges in line with 
account terms and conditions. 
So, I cant fairly and reasonably say that Lloyds  treated Mr S unfairly  when it applied  charges 
on his accounts.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Both parties  have confirmed that theres  nothing further they wish to add following my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change my view, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint  for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
putting things right
Lloyds should  do as it has offered and:
work out and pay Mr S the difference in the fees he paid between the Gold  account 
and the Select account for the whole period he held a Gold account, and
add simple interest at 8% per year on to the above amount, from the date 
Mr S paid the fees to the date of settlement.
If Lloyds is able to work out any savings Mr S has made from holding the Gold account 
and it can show these calculations to him, it may, if it wants, deduct this additional  saving 
from the payment  it makes him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN16569155my final decision
I direct  Lloyds  Bank PLC to pay Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1656915