K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about delays in processing their mortgage  application  by 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
background 
Halifax has accepted  that there were delays in processing Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  
application. Before  the complaint came to this service it offered Mr and Mrs P:
£600 to apologise for the delays  to the application and for the time taken to deal with 
the complaint;
£100 for their telephone expenses;
To pay an amount  equal to the interest  they had paid on their credit card loans for the 
period from June to October 2018  provided  Mr and Mrs P show the bank their credit  
card statements 
The investigator noted in his view that Halifax has said the earliest this type of application 
could have completed was June 2018.  But due to the delays that were caused by Halifax  
and its legal representative it did not complete until 28 September 2018.
Part of the re-mortgage application was to consolidate outstanding debt on several  credit  
cards. The investigator  thought that had the mortgage completed in June 2018, 
Mr and Mrs P would have had to pay substantially less or no interest on this credit card debt.  
So he thought it would  be fair that Halifax refund  as it had offered - Mr and Mrs P the 
interest that they had paid on these credit  cards from 1 June 2018  to 28 September  2018. 
From the statements Mr and Mrs P provided he calculated the interest as £1,822.98.
Due to the delays with the re-mortgage application  Mr and Mrs P also had to pay a higher 
monthly payment  on their existing mortgage which had switched to their existing lenders 
standard variable  rate (SVR) on 1 March 2018.  The investigator thought it was fair for 
Mr and Mrs P to receive a refund of the difference between the old monthly payments and 
new monthly payments  (post the change to the SVR). He calculated this to be £217.85.
As Mr and Mrs P had to spend a lot of time chasing  Halifax and its legal representative he 
thought it was fair for Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 for telephone costs.
He also thought that Halifax should pay £600  which it had previously  offered  - for the large 
amount of trouble and upset caused  to Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigators  view.  They  felt they should  be refunded the 
overdraft fees on their current account as they had to pay these whilst waiting for the 
remortgage to happen. They pointed out, as well as these costs, they have incurred other  
knock on costs. They gave an example of how they had to do things differently when paying 
for a holiday.  When the remortgage  eventually  occurred  they say they were  no longer able to 
pay off all the cards and so had to pay interest on that debt. They  felt the compensation 
offered for trouble  and upset was derisory. And they were unhappy that having  chosen a two 
year fixed  deal they ended up getting  a deal for only 20 months and will have to go through 
the whole  process  again soon.
Ref: DRN16222752my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision because I thought there should  be some changes  to the 
compensation recommended by the investigator.
I noted it was agreed by both parties that there were unnecessary  delays on the part of the 
business and its legal  representative. The remortgage didnt complete until 28 September. 
Neither party had challenged the date of 1 June 2018 set out by the investigator as the date 
from which it would be reasonable to expect  the mortgage to complete so I didnt intend to 
look at this any further.
I explained when  a business  makes  an error  we look to put the consumer in as close  a 
position as possible  as they would  have been in if the error had not taken place. I therefore 
need to compare what Mr and Mrs P would have been paying  had the remortgage  gone 
ahead on 1 June  compared to what they were paying.
I said if the mortgage had gone  ahead on 1 June 2018 then they would have been  making  
payments to this mortgage from that date.  The interest part of these payments hadnt been 
included in the calculations made by the investigator and would need to be deducted from 
any award I made otherwise it would be as though Mr and Mrs P had an interest free loan 
from 1 June 2018 until the date of completion of the mortgage.
Turning to the payments that Mr and Mrs P made  that they wouldnt have needed to have 
made if the mortgage  had gone ahead I thought  it was fair that the bank paid:
An amount equal  to the interest  on the credit card accounts from 1 June 2018 until 
the end of September as I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs P would have paid off the 
credit card accounts  if they had remortgaged on 1 June. I looked at the breakdown 
of the calculation of credit  card interest and agreed with the calculations  set out. But 
I noted that there were some gaps  because we didnt have all the statements for all 
the cards  for all the relevant  period.  
An amount equal  to the interest  on the existing mortgage with the building society 
which had a first charge  over Mr and Mrs Ps house from 1 June 2018 until the date 
of redemption.
An amount equal  to any interest  or charges they incurred on their current account 
due to debits,  resulting  in a reduced balance on their current  account, caused by 
payments to their various credit card accounts  from 1 June to 28 September. 
£100 to cover call costs.
Mr and Mrs P had said that due to the delay  which resulted in increased costs - they 
werent able to pay off their credit card accounts in full and now were  paying further interest  
Assuming appropriate  evidence was provided,  I said I would look to award further  
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs P had also said there  have been other  knock on consequences of the delay. I 
appreciated this may be the case.  I said if they provided evidence of this I would look at 
these knock on consequences.
 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  they hadnt  had a two year fix as the mortgage  was only 
entered into in September 2018 and expires  in June 2020. I said I could see their point but I 
thought the refunds I was suggesting were designed  to put them  in as close  a positon as 
possible to the financial position they would have been in if they had completed on 
1 June 2018.
Ref: DRN16222753Mr and Mrs P said that the stress they have suffered caused by the delays  has impacted 
their mental health with Mr P having to take antidepressants for the first time. They also felt 
their relationship had been put under much  strain.  I said I was very sorry to hear this. To 
increase the award due to a change in Mr Ps health I would need to see some medical 
evidence. I said Id also like to understand how and why their relationship was put under 
strain. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision.  Following its acceptance and the further  evidence  
provided by Mr and Mrs P it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs P:
£1,822.98  in refunded credit card account costs as referred  to in the provisional 
decision
£357.55 in additional credit card account costs  to cover the missing statements 
referred to in the provisional decision
£301.87 in additional mortgage payments  being  made up of £654.36 to cover  the 
interest on the mortgage with the building society from 1 June 2018 to 
28 September 2018 less £352.49  to cover the interest Mr and Mrs P would have paid 
to Halifax if the remortgage had gone ahead on 1 June  for the period from 
1 June 2018 to 28 September 2018
£100 for telephone costs
£401.96 in current account interest  and charges
£187.16 in further credit  card costs;
£600 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr and Mrs P said they found my provisional decision confusing particularly with regard to 
the deduction of the interest  they would have paid Halifax. But once Halifax agreed to pay 
the figures as set out above they accepted this.
findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  that Mr and Mrs P found  the provisional  decision confusing  particularly regarding 
the reference to the interest free loan.  When  a business makes  a mistake we look to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in if the mistake  hadn't occurred. And if it the 
mortgage had completed on 1 June  as everyone  wanted Mr and Mrs P would have been 
making mortgage payments to the business  from 1 June and so the interest  element of 
these payments need to be deducted from their award. 
I am pleased, however,  to see that Mr and Mrs P are happy with the amount Halifax  has 
agreed to pay. I therefore confirm those figures  here.
Ref: DRN16222754my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) 
to pay Mr and Mrs P:
£1,822.98  in refunded credit card account costs as referred  to in the provisional 
decision
£357.55 in additional credit card account costs  to cover the missing statements 
referred to in the provisional decision
£301.87 in additional mortgage payments  being  made up of £654.36 to cover  the 
interest on the mortgage with the building society from 1 June 2018 to 
28 September 2018 less £352.49  to cover the interest Mr and Mrs P would have paid 
to Halifax if the remortgage had gone ahead on 1 June  for the period from 
1 June 2018 to 28 September 2018
£100 for telephone costs
£401.96 in current account interest  and charges
£187.16 in further credit  card costs as a result of the credit card debt being unable to 
be paid off in full;
£600 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.  
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1622275