K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs H applied for a mortgage with Nationwide in February 1992. Mrs H also had a MPPI  
policy at this time to cover  her mortgage  repayments against accidents,  sickness and 
unemployment. Mrs H thinks she was mis-sold this policy by Nationwide.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because they thought Mrs H was not given  sufficient 
information on an exclusion  relating to pre-existing medical conditions, and if it had, Mrs H 
wouldnt have agreed to have the insurance.   
Nationwide doesnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions so Mrs Hs complaint has been 
passed to me to make decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  because, although Nationwide  didnt recommend 
the PPI to her, the information it gave about the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
I say this because  I am not persuaded that these terms were specifically mentioned  or 
brought to Mrs Hs attention when she was sold the policy by Nationwide. And although 
Nationwide has pointed  to the significant  exclusion  being presented within  its sales 
documentation, it appears to me that it was not clear or straight forward  to find it or 
understand what it meant
I think this shortcoming  would have mattered to Mrs H because she had a medical condition 
which the policy would not have covered. So she might not have  been  able to claim on the 
policy in all the circumstances  she had expected. 
Nationwide has asked  that Mrs H provide  supporting information about her medical  
condition. But after reading  through her recollections I am persuaded by what Mrs H has 
said about her condition and how this affected  her life, at the time of sale.  The date of sale 
was over 25 years ago and I think it is totally understandable  that Mrs H doesnt have 
supporting documents about  this now.
In conclusion, I think Mrs H has lost out as a result of Nationwide's failings  in this case, 
because I dont think she would have taken out the policy if shed been properly informed. 
So Nationwide needs to put things  right.
Ref: DRN16216582putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mrs H in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. It needs to pay Mrs H:
The total monthly premiums she paid for the policy, and
Interest at 8% per annum simple on each of the premiums from the date each was 
paid to the date of settlement. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint, and require 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay her fair compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1621658