K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and have been  set out by the 
adjudicator so I wont repeat them again  here. Instead Ill focus on giving  the reasons for my 
decision. 
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L. Whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was less than a year 
old, had only been driven for 4,623  miles and had a price of £51,000 so it was a nearly new 
car and I consider  that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would  be free from defects.  
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator for these reasons:
there was clearly  an issue with water leaking into the car which was repaired by the 
dealer in March 2019 - but Mr L complained  about further  issues following the leak 
including a damp smell and concerns about rust, mould and electrical damage;
a manufacturers dealer confirmed in August 2019 that there was a smell in the car 
which it said was most  likely  from the water ingress earlier  that year and further work to 
deal with the issue was started - but Mr L said that he wanted to reject the car so he 
complained to BMW Financial Services and then this service;
the adjudicator recommended  that Mr L should  be allowed to reject  the car and that 
BMW Financial Services should refund to him the deposit that he paid for the car, two 
monthly payments under  the agreement (all with interest)  and pay him £200  
compensation for his distress and inconvenience;
those recommendations  were  sent to BMW  Financial Services  in September  2019 and 
the adjudicator wrote  to it later that month  but no response  was received so the 
adjudicator advised  it in October  2019  that Mr Ls complaint had been passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision and that it could send any further points or information by the 
end of that month  but no response has been received;
I consider it to be more  likely  than not that there  was a fault with the car when it was 
supplied to Mr L which led to the water leak,  the water leak has been repaired but there 
are further issues with the car and that Mr L has lost faith in it;
I consider that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial  
Services to allow  Mr L to reject the car  so it should collect  the car and end the 
agreement;
Ref: DRN12096252the agreement shows that Mr L made an advance payment of £20,400 for the car and 
the invoice shows  that he made an advance payment  of £1,000 and traded-in a car with 
a value of £21,500;
Mr L was able to use the car and I understand that he drove  it for more  than 16,000  
miles in 19 months  but his use of the car has been impaired by the issues that hes 
had with it and the repairs that have been required;
I consider that it would  be fair and reasonable for BMW  Financial Services  to refund to 
Mr L any deposit  that he paid for the car (including the value of any car that he traded-
in) and that it should refund to him two monthly  payments  for his impaired use of the car 
 all with interest (it can keep the other monthly  payments  that hes made as payment 
for the use that hes had from the car); and
these events  have caused  distress  and inconvenience to Mr L and I also find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for BMW  Financial  Services to pay him £200 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and I order BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and collect the car from Mr L  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr L any deposit (including the value  of any car that he traded-in) that he paid 
for the car.
3.Refund to Mr L two of the monthly payments  that hes made  under that agreement 
because of his impaired use of the car.
4.Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £200 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  
caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to above. BMW Financial Services must  give Mr L a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1209625