K821x#15complaint
Mrs C and her son Mr C1, who is executor of his father the late Mr Cs estate, complain 
about a delay in City Pensions Limited processing the payment of death benefits  from Mr 
Cs self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and the tax charges this will cause.
background
Mr C took out a SIPP in 2003  which was provided by Bank of Scotland  and administered 
by Pilgrim Trustees. In 2008  he nominated  his wife Mrs C as the sole beneficiary of the 
death benefits under the SIPP.
Mr C died at age 70 at the end of March 2011.  On 7 April his son (Mr C1) notified 
Pilgrims managing director, who sent an internal email recording,  [Mr C1]s Daddied 
last week. [Mr C1] will be in touch in due course  re what his mother wants to do. This 
email didnt give Mr Cs full name or policy number, or for that matter  Mr C1s policy 
number (as he was a client of Pilgrim in his own right). I understand that it also wasnt 
added to either customers computer records.
At that time the SIPP portfolio was valued at about  £182,600. This included a share 
portfolio, and ownership of about two-thirds of two industrial units (amounting  to 
£179,150) but after two-thirds of an outstanding  mortgage on those  units (amounting to 
£38,200) had been deducted. I understand that Mr C1 and potentially  also his wife Mrs 
C1, who also appears to have a similar SIPP, owned the other  approximate  one-third of 
the properties.
It appears that Pilgrim didnt hear further from Mr C1 in the months that followed. 
On 14 June 2012 City Pensions  Limited was appointed by Bank of Scotland  as the new 
administrator of the Pilgrim SIPP, as Pilgrim had resigned as administrator. City 
Pensions has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Mattioli Woods Plc (MW)  and traded as 
City Trustees from MWs offices since August 2010. (However MW itself also began 
trading directly as City Trustees and directly administering this SIPP  from around 
October 2014 onwards.)   References made  below  to City Trustees  include City 
Pensions and MW trading  as City Trustees  at the relevant times. And Ill refer to MW 
directly where it has dealt with us directly (for instance when responding to the 
complaint).
MW has now provided evidence that City Trustees  wrote directly to Mr C on 4 January 
2013 for consent to update the share portfolio manager with the change of administrator. 
So at first glance, this therefore looks like City Trustees didnt know Mr C had died. But 
the enclosed letter they were asking  to be signed reads [Mr C] (passed away)  above 
the space for a signature  meaning City Trustees  did know hed died. We dont  know  
exactly what happened in the following months, but it appears Mrs C1 was unsuccessful 
in sending a copy  of the death certificate  and Mr C1 had to send it again at the end of 
March 2013. 
In September  2013 City Trustees was in touch with Mr Cs daughter-in-law (Mrs C1) 
about other issues with the SIPPs. Her initial reaction was to ask what  had happened  
with Mr Cs death benefits: [Mr C1] says he is waiting on yourselves for something that 
needs doing. I assume you know  what  he is referring to. It appears  at this stage City 
Trustees located the above-mentioned email from April 2011 in a box of loose papers it 
had inherited from Pilgrim, during an assimilation carried out by a departing  client 
Ref: DRN12976912relationship manager. He created a handover  note,  which MW subsequently shared 
with the beneficiaries,  saying that We have  been  aware of the death  since  taking over 
the SIPP in 2012.
Pilgrim used SIPP Pro software to record its client files. MW says there was a bulk 
upload of information from the SIPP Pro system  to its administration  system on 6 
October 2013. This did pull through that Mr C was 'deceased', however the date of death 
hadnt been added by Pilgrim.  So it argues City Trustees wouldnt have known  this 
without checking  for the associated correspondence, which  was on paper and intermixed 
with Pilgrims  correspondence in multiple boxes.
City Trustees then wrote  to Mr C1 in December 2013 asking to verify details of Mrs Cs 
claim as the beneficiary.  It also explained  that the share portfolio could be sold to repay 
the mortgage under the SIPP, so that the property could be transferred  into Mrs Cs 
name. The transfer of the property would then constitute the payment of the death 
benefit (and would  mean the property   and the other parties share  in it  wouldnt need 
to be sold). But it suggested the parties might wish to take advice  on this. 
Its common ground that City Trustees communications at the time didnt mention that 
as more than two years had already  passed  since Mr Cs death, the payment of benefits 
in one form or another would now be taxed.  In fact it suggested that Mr Cs whole  
fund is uncrystallised  and can be paid as a lump sum to the beneficiary.
MW says it didnt  receive a response to this email and other messages about charges, 
and it eventually chased it in April 2014.  However it appears that at the end of July 2014 
it received a copy of the Grant of Probate, and at the end of August  2014 the will, which  
it needed in order  to consider the death claim.  But it appears City Trustees couldnt 
locate Mr Cs death certificate and asked for it again.
After the share portfolio manager contacted  Mr C1 directly in August  2014, he arranged  
for Mrs C1 to ask City Trustees  to sell the shareholdings  closure of that account was 
achieved on 10 September 2014. And in that same week there  was a phone  call with Mr 
C1 where the implications  of the two-year period for death benefits seems to have been 
discussed for the first time. There was some hope  expressed at that point that a 
forthcoming change  in the law (in April 2015) might  still enable Mrs C to withdraw the 
death benefits tax-free.
In April 2015, the law did change with the advent of pension freedoms. But Mr Cs 
situation wasnt affected because hed already died before  the change. Death benefits 
from his SIPP (once  outside the two-year period) would now be taxed as income in the 
hands of the beneficiary, whether paid as a lump  sum or an income.
In November 2015 the familys solicitor became involved in drawing up a new lease for 
the tenant in the property held in their SIPPs. MW wasnt able to sign this lease without 
consent from the beneficiary and wasnt able to reach conclusions on that without sight  
of Mr Cs death certificate. Mr C1 provided the death certificate maintaining  that he had 
already sent it before, which we now know to be correct. 
At this point MW then located Mr Cs Expression of Wish (EoW) form on the files it had 
inherited from Pilgrim. But as neither the EoW form nor the will were binding  on MW (as 
the death benefits were held under a discretionary trust) it then took a step it would 
always have needed  to take:  it asked  Mr Cs wife and children to complete beneficiary  
Ref: DRN12976913details forms. MW says these forms werent  returned, but it later heard that Mr and Mrs 
C1 had emigrated in March 2016.  The death  benefits thus remained unsettled.
Later in 2017  the familys solicitor requested full disclosure of papers held on the SIPP.  
MW responded that it had still been  in the process of sorting out Pilgrims files, but it was 
providing the documents without sorting them further. The solicitor subsequently 
complained in March 2018 about City Trustees failure to inform  Mr C1 about the two-
year restriction on payment of tax-free  death benefits, or to make payment within that 
period  and that it had continued  in error  to assert they were tax-free. They referred  to 
past decisions by the Pensions Ombudsman  and cited breaches of the FSA Principles 
for Businesses. They  sought an undertaking from MW that it would pay the expected 
unauthorised payment  charge and any other  taxes or penalties,  with interest.
In April 2018 MW wrote to Mrs C1 (mistakenly believing her to be Mrs C) explaining what 
options remained to make payment of the death  benefits. In summary it said:
-Mrs C could always have chosen instead  to draw down income taxed  at her 
marginal rate and pass the remaining fund on to beneficiaries. That option was still 
available.
-The April 2015 changes meant  delayed payment of a lump sum would no longer 
be taxed at 55%. It would just be taxed the same  way as drawdown income (which 
was in full, as income at her marginal rate).  
-In order to pay a large lump sum, it was likely the property needed to be sold,  or 
re-registered to Mrs C personally   with the scheme  paying  out the tax due.
-It would be necessary  for Mrs C or her representatives to discuss the matter with 
the other two pension schemes who jointly owned the properties.
-there is an ongoing complaint  any potential loss suffered as a result of the 
delay in the payment  of your benefits will be addressed once you have made a 
decision on how you wish to draw the death  benefits.
Shortly after this MW sent the solicitor  its final response on the complaint. It noted the 
task of taking over the scheme administration had been complex because over 30,000 
individual data filesneeded to be reviewed  - and it was never provided with full client 
files.  Although it shared  its client managers handover note that We have been  aware  of 
the death since taking over the SIPP in 2012", MW argued differently when addressing 
the complaint   that City Trustees  hadnt become aware of Mr Cs death until September 
2013. It added that:
-It was Pilgrims  responsibility, and not MWs, to advise the potential  beneficiaries  of 
the two-year time limit at the point of notification of Mr Cs death.
-Even if death benefits had been processed  in a timely fashion,  it wouldve taken 
some time to either sell the property or re-register it into Mrs Cs name.
-As such, in order to assess any loss to the client as a result of the delay in 
payment, we will be valuing  the scheme as at the end of the two-year  window in 
which the lump  sum could be paid tax free and checking this against the death 
benefits ultimately paid.
The solicitor  didnt agree  and referred  the complaint  to our service, principally because  
of the content  of the handover note. MW argued  the following:
Records that City Trustees inherited from Pilgrim were  offsite  and their state 
prevented it from doing due diligence. Any assumption that City Pensions should 
have had instant knowledge  of Mr Cs death  by virtue of its due diligence  on 
taking over the scheme was therefore  invalid.  
Ref: DRN12976914The scope of activity required to rectify records and ensure ongoing administration  
to protect  Pilgrims clients  was vast, as 900 schemes were  affected.
It had discussions  with the regulator in 2012  (apparently to obtain reassurance 
about the risks it was exposed to in becoming  administrator). Correspondence  
showed it agreed to act as a third-party  administrator without liability, as a primary 
administrator would still be retained  by the scheme.  (However  Ive explained in a 
separate provisional decision  that the correspondence  provided appears to be 
discussing a possible acquisition  of a different book of business to Pilgrim.)
HMRC  had found faults with Pilgrim and the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) was accepting  its liabilities. Any determination  that involves the 
beneficiaries making a claim against the FSCS  should be binding on them  doing 
that.
The tax charge  will only be known if/when the property is transferred or sold.  The 
beneficiaries should  be forced to either transfer or sell within a set time period.
Mrs Cs solicitor also told us:
Mrs C hadnt  yet proceeded with the payment of death benefits because none  of 
MWs previous  responses accepted responsibility  for the tax consequences of a 
lump sum payment.
FSCS told the solicitor that most of the cases it was looking  at against Pilgrim were 
about the original establishment  of SIPPs. And as City Trustees had collected fees 
from the SIPP for the final 9 months of the two-year  period it had to pay tax-free 
death benefits, it could  have  rectified the matter. 
At the time of making my first provisional decision,  MW still hadnt received any contact  
from the solicitor regarding the arrangements  to dispose of Mr Cs share in the property. 
The solicitor  had told us that Mr C1 had been  attempting to let the property without 
success, and was therefore  putting  it on the market.  My understanding  is that remains 
the position.
summary of my provisional  decisions
Ive previously issued  two provisional decisions  on this complaint  on 23 November 
2020 and 15 January  2021. In summary,  the overall position reached  by the time of the 
second provisional decision is as follows:
Should City Pensions have identified that Mr Cs death claim was outstanding?
There  appeared originally to be crossed wires  between Pilgrims managing 
director and Mr C1 as to who would be taking action.
A beneficiary will normally be to some  degree reliant on payment being  made  and 
chasing for it. I was mindful  that the change of administrator might also have 
prompted the beneficiaries to chase City Pensions.
At the time of taking  over the SIPP, City Pensions ought to have  known that claims 
of maladministration  might  arise,  that the tax consequences of those would be 
significant, and it should  have a plan for dealing with these.  
Adequate due diligence was consistent  with the regulators Principles of 
conducting business with due skill, care and diligence; and taking reasonable care 
to organise and control affairs responsibly and effectively with adequate 
management systems.  
Ref: DRN12976915Only after chasing in September 2013 did City Pensions begin to get on top of 
what investments  the scheme had made - about  15 months after it had taken over 
the SIPP. 
This was far too long:  City Pensions  should  have got to grips with the records 
sooner, even  if that meant  taking on additional  resource to do so.
Pilgrims computer  systems apparently recorded  that Mr C had died, although not 
the date.  So, had City Pensions  uploaded that information to its own system by 
(say) October 2012  a reasonable time after acquiring the SIPPs  it could have 
identified that it had a deceased client whose death benefits had not been paid out. 
In the event that there were complications in achieving  this, I failed to see why 
steps couldnt have  been taken to access Pilgrims system manually  to identify 
clients at highest risk of needing prompt action taking, such as those who had 
died.
City Pensions should have contacted  the beneficiaries at the last known address, 
as in fact it later did in January  2013.  Hunting through boxes of paper records  
(which, as it turns out, also wouldnt have confirmed the actual date of death) 
would have been a sensible  use of time. So in my view its unreasonable  for MW to 
use this to justify  why the two-year time limit would always have been exceeded.
The legislation  said that a lump  sum death benefit could only be paid tax-free if it 
was within two years of when the administrator could  reasonably  have been 
expected to know of the death. 
So if MWs position that City Pensions couldnt  reasonably have known that Mr C 
had died was taken  at face value, it was unclear why it also didnt attempt to make 
such arguments to HMRC, and request that the matter be dealt with 
retrospectively. Whilst its perhaps  unlikely such an argument  would have  
succeeded with HMRC, it wouldnt have been a surprising step for an administrator 
to take in attempting to resolve an unusual situation in the clients  best interests.  
Should City Pensions have notified  the potential beneficiaries about  the two-year  rule?
I said that as the scheme administrator, City Pensions should  have become aware  of a 
significant taxation cliff edge that the beneficiaries would pass in April 2013  and it 
couldnt assume (without checking) that they knew  about this. In fact there would be a 
presumption they didnt, given the admitted  state  of the records it inherited from Pilgrim. 
So it was obliged to warn them of the cost of delay. Another regulatory Principle was 
relevant here  to pay due regard to the interests  of customers and treat them  fairly.
There was nothing to indicate to City Pensions  that the beneficiaries had knowingly  
missed a two-year tax-free window. So responsibility  was likely to reflect  on the 
administrator, and Im far from persuaded that City Pensions was making best 
endeavours to rectify that.
What difference  would it have made  if City Pensions  had done  this?
MW had argued that when it corresponded  with Mr and Mrs C1 about the scheme 
(including the payment of death  benefits)  they were unresponsive. I agreed there was 
some evidence to support  this which suggested there wasnt  a pressing  desire  for Mrs C 
to access liquid cash from the scheme.  But I had to recognise what  they didnt know  
which was that there  would be a financial cost if they didnt act quickly. 
Immediately after the two-year  period  passed (and before the rules changed again in 
April 2015) this cost could  be 55% of the pension, which was over £100,000. Its difficult  
Ref: DRN12976916to see how Mrs C or her representatives  wouldnt have been  significantly motivated to 
act immediately in order to entirely avoid this sum. It would be illogical to conclude  
otherwise (as I explained in my first provisional  decision  that two possible complications,  
to do with inheritance  tax or lifetime  allowance charges, didnt apply here).
On weighing  up the evidence available I was persuaded that there was enough time 
between January and April 2013 to pay the death  benefits (January 2013 being the point 
at which  MWs submissions admit that City Pensions was aware of Mr Cs death). If this 
still hadnt happened, it would only be because it had taken as long for City Pensions  to 
check what position Mr Cs SIPP had been  in at the date of death,  re-obtain the death 
certificate, grant of probate, EoW  form, and other  beneficiary forms  as it actually took it 
to do in 2013. And I dont think it should have  taken that long. 
An urgent reminder   the first one the beneficiaries will have been given by anybody  of 
the need to act quickly in January 2013 at the latest, would likely have focused their 
attention and that of their legal representatives.  So on the balance  of probabilities Im 
satisfied that they would likely have been  able to do the following in time to constitute 
payment of the death benefit:  
Sell Mr Cs shareholding;
Use this to pay off his outstanding share of the loan; and
Transfer  his share of the property into Mrs Cs name.
In my view the most time-consuming part of this was likely to have been drawing up the 
legal paperwork for the transfer. But I still found  it highly unlikely that this would have 
dragged past April 2013, given the tax penalty at stake. It would have been in everyones  
interest, including any solicitors who were being remunerated accordingly, to avoid this.
Whether the beneficiaries themselves carry some responsibility for this delay
Clearly if the beneficiaries  knew that a clock  was ticking  on the payment of death  
benefits, and there  was the taxation cliff edge  Ive referred to above, their failure to 
progress matters would be significant. But I didnt think that was the case  here. All the 
indications are that Pilgrim failed to inform Mr C in the initial  phone  conversation  that 
there was a time limit, or I think he would have acted sooner to avoid a significant 
penalty. Whilst that wasnt City Pensions  own fault, it does mean a key opportunity was 
missed  and I have to consider whether the beneficiaries actions were  reasonable in 
that light.
Ive taken into account that this was a family SIPP arrangement, and ownership of the 
property that formed  the majority of Mr Cs SIPP would likely  continue in Mrs Cs hands 
 because it was jointly owned by other SIPPs. It seems Mrs C was in the financial 
position where she wasnt reliant  on encashing the SIPP.  As a result,  I couldnt  
reasonably conclude that its fair for the beneficiaries  to be held responsible for the loss 
of a tax-free window consequent upon their delay, when this is something  they werent 
told about.
City Pensions had technically taken over the SIPP in June 2012, although I havent seen 
the welcome letter that would have notified  Mr C1 and others in the family with SIPPs  
about this  conceivably it may have taken a while  to arrive. Either way, as MW says 
City Pensions didnt  have existing knowledge  of Mr Cs death at the point of takeover, 
and it hadnt yet by its own admission uploaded  the computer records,I think  the likely 
way it discovered this by January 2013  was from someone in the family  telling  it. 
Ref: DRN12976917If there was some  delay  in the family passing this information on, that was likely a 
reflection of the low priority of Mrs C to access cash from her SIPP at that time. But it 
seems they did pass the information on. And if Im wrong on that, and City Pensions had 
found out some other way, Im satisfied it was also already on notice  that - if it didnt 
already know the date - it would have to find out when Mr C died, in order  to establish 
how much  time there was left to pay the death  benefits tax-free.
What actually happened is that City Pensions  made contact with Mr Cs address in 
January 2013  with routine  administrative correspondence relating to the takeover, 
without expressing  any urgency  to simply establish  the date of death.  So it only learned 
the date of death when  Mr C1 provided  the death  certificate at the second attempt three 
months later, whilst he was still unaware  of the tax deadline. I found it unlikely that this 
delay would still have  happened if City Pensions had simply asked for the date, and 
explained the importance of asking for it.
I couldnt find any record of City Pensions  discussing  the time limits with the 
beneficiaries until September  2014. So, on that basis, I didnt think it would  be fair or 
reasonable to attribute responsibility  for the loss of the tax-free benefits to the 
beneficiaries themselves.  They  likely  already acted to inform City Pensions of Mr Cs 
death during 2012  thus explaining the nature of the correspondence  from City 
Pensions in January 2013. So even if they could have done this sooner than they did, it 
seems the deadline  would still have  been missed only because City Pensions was very 
slow in identifying that this was an issue.
 
Given Pilgrims involvement,  would it be fair to only apportion some of the responsibility 
for compensating Mrs Cs total tax loss to City Pensions?
There  were  questions about  whether it would be fair and reasonable to expect City 
Pensions to pay all of the compensation,  given  that either it or Pilgrim could 
potentially have avoided all of Mrs Cs loss by acting on the information they 
received.
Pilgrims liability was a matter for the FSCS which is entitled to point out that when 
City Pensions took over, there were potentially nine months to pay out the death 
benefits. 
The FSCS is a fund of last resort and so its unlikely to pay out on a claim for as 
long as it considers other  parties might be held liable. Such a claim is unlikely to be 
helped by the further evidence MW has revealed of what  it knew  in late 2012/early 
2013. 
Apportioning only part of Mrs Cs loss to City Pensions in my final decision 
therefore leaves her potentially  out of pocket. That wouldnt be a fair outcome 
either, given that Im not persuaded  that the beneficiaries are responsible for any 
of Mrs Cs tax loss.
MW had provided  clear  evidence of the knowledge it had that Mr C had died, and 
upon which it didnt promptly act. I didnt need  to assume that it acquired  
knowledge of Mr Cs death at the point it took over the SIPP  in June 2012 to reach 
that conclusion  even  acting  promptly in January  2013  gave  it enough time, in my 
view.
Time also wasnt running desperately short in terms of the two-year  period when 
Pilgrim ceased to be administrator. Mrs Cs representative has made the 
reasonable point  that they were  paying for City Pensions to administer the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN12976918Mrs C didnt receive the level of service  she was entitled to on arranging  this death 
claim. 
For a combination of all these  reasons I was satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
me to require City Pensions to compensate 100% of Mrs Cs loss. Had City 
Pensions taken  over the SIPP with only a short period left to pay the death 
benefits, I might have  reached a different conclusion.  
the beneficiarys responses to my latest provisional decision
-Mrs C wishes to sell the commercial property held by the SIPP, and theres no 
intention of her personally purchasing it from the SIPP (to achieve  the payment of 
death benefits) prior to that sale. And she doesnt  wish to wait until the property is 
sold before  receiving  compensation.
-Regarding the valuation of the property, it will put forward  the names of surveyors  
for agreement  with MW following my final decision.
-At the point of handover in June 2012 there  were  over nine months of the two-year  
period remaining. Therefore no claim could feasibly have been  made  against  
Pilgrim. 
-The proximate cause  of Mrs Cs loss was City Pensions failure to assimilate the 
papers provided  by Pilgrim.
-It hasnt heard anything further from FSCS in the two years since  it made contact 
and was told that the FSCS  was unlikely  to accept a claim.
MW/City Pensions  responses to my latest provisional decision
-As scheme administrator, it notifies  both advised and non-advised scheme  
members/ representatives that there is a two-year  rule for death benefits to remain 
tax free for beneficiaries. However,  HMRC  legislation  does not stipulate  this. 
-It has always stated  it will put Mrs C in the right financial  position  and agreed  to 
review the tax position once the beneficiary  has told the trustees how they want  
the benefits to be paid. 
-The tax payable  will be dependent on the beneficiarys marginal rate, and it doesnt 
know Mrs Cs tax code  or current earnings.  It can only make  assumptions that 
some of the benefit will be taxed at 20%,  some 40% and some 45% if she took it 
all in one tax year.  However it doesnt  know whether Mrs C wants to take all the 
death benefits in one go, or whether  she wants part payment this tax year and the 
rest the next.
-As Mr C1 has a 35.5%  share of the property, he needs to let MW know  what the 
intention is for the sale of the property before it can make  any payments to Mrs C.
-MW can arrange for a valuation to be prepared for the property, noting there will be 
a cost involved from the independent surveyor. This will be a cost payable by the 
deceaseds SIPP as it is needed  for the settlement  of death benefits, although the 
cost could  be apportioned  with agreement  by all the property owners.
-It has calculated  a notional value for the uncrystallised fund based  on the last 
valuation.  However,  Mrs C1 used to provide details of rent payments and it 
understands she and Mr C1 are now divorced,  meaning records are not up to date. 
-The borrowings have  been repaid and the share portfolio is no longer in existence. 
MW also made a number of further comments about what it considered was the 
beneficiarys failure to advise that Mr C had died, or to promptly  act to settle the death 
benefits. It also sent us a further message suggesting that Mrs C and/or Mr C1 were  
Ref: DRN12976919advised (I assume  by their representative) to not even progress matters once the tax 
problem was known.
In my view this is covering  old ground  that Ive already addressed  in my provisional  
decision, so Im not going to repeat these comments in detail here but will address them  
in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of MWs comments in response to my second  provisional decision focus on:
(a)my unwillingness  to accept that Mr C1 and Mrs C would still have delayed 
payment of death benefits beyond the two-year period, even if they had known of 
the tax consequences;
(b)the impracticability of redressing this complaint  before  the death benefits  
themselves have been settled.
The merits of the dispute itself arent the prime  focus  of MWs further comments  
indeed I note it has returned to saying that it (as City Pensions) has always  been willing  
to consider Mrs Cs tax losses. That was indeed what it said in its first response  to the 
complaint, but if that had always remained the case  I have to question  why it has 
vigorously defended its liability in this dispute  and attempted to blame other parties   
including Mrs C, Mr C1 and their representative  to the extent  that it has. 
Given some  of the previous comments MW has made, in the two provisional decisions 
Ive issued Ive had to proceed on the basis that MW/City Pensions was potentially 
unwilling to consider recompensing  Mrs Cs tax losses. If MW perhaps hadnt  deviated 
from a position  that it was continuing to accept responsibility for those losses  (but to be 
quantified after the death benefits were settled),  I might have proceeded differently and 
considered whether I was in a position to conclude that it had already  made  a fair offer.
However as it stands, I think MW has changed its position several times on this 
complaint and that still leaves some doubt as to its intentions in being willing to meet  any 
tax charge. As we know here, the ongoing  administration of a SIPP  can change hands,  
and MW is strictly a different entity  to City Pensions. So I dont think its necessary for 
the outcome of a complaint against City Pensions in respect of its historical  actions in 
2012/13 to be strictly linked to the difficulties MW (a separate  entity) alleges it currently 
has in operating the SIPP  bearing  in mind that City Pensions actions have caused a 
loss which  is now unavoidable.
So I consider its reasonable for me to proceed  to make my final decision on the same 
basis that I outlined  I would in my latest  provisional  decision. This will bring finality to a 
dispute which will have caused  considerable concern to Mrs C, given that in light of the 
comments MW had been making she would  have had reason to think  her agreement  to 
proceed with the death benefits would trigger a tax charge that wouldnt be met by City 
Pensions.
Ive already concluded that the beneficiary likely reminded City Pensions sometime 
between June 2012 (when  it took over the SIPP) and January 2013  (when  City Pensions  
referred to Mr Cs death) that he had died. As Ive already  said, I think this is 
commensurate with a desire  by the family to ensure matters werent  forgotten  about, 
Ref: DRN129769110whilst also being in the fortunate financial position not to need an immediate lump sum 
and remaining unaware of the significant  tax consequences of a delayed payment. I 
think its unfortunate that MW has continued to focus on this issue  rather than City 
Pensions own standards of administration which have fallen short in this case.
MW has however added that there  were  three  significant life events   a death, a divorce  
and a move  overseas (I understand both in respect  of Mr C1) - which challenge the 
preconception that the two-year rule would have  been  met with awareness. And its 
alleged some sort of involvement of the familys representative in preventing  matters  
being settled.  
For the record, the representative has previously  denied  that this is the case. But what  
MW is also forgetting is that by the time Mrs C and Mr C1 were informed about the two-
year rule, it was already too late to avoid the tax charges. So I dont consider it is fair or 
reasonable to presume  that inaction by the beneficiary, when  no action could actually be 
taken to avoid  their loss, is indicative of what  they might have done had they been 
informed of the two-year period in a timely manner. Ive carefully considered  everything 
MW has said but that remains my position.
I also understand why MW considers it would be easier  to settle this dispute after the 
death benefits have been paid. But again  that doesnt mean its fair and reasonable to 
Mrs C and Mr C1 to leave  this complaint unresolved;  a complaint which in my view is 
justified for the reasons I gave  in my provisional decisions.
I am in no better a position  than MW is itself to require the death benefits  to be settled at 
a particular point  in time, given the powers it has as the SIPP  administrator. But I have to 
say I havent seen evidence of a particularly concerted approach from MW to move  
matters forward  it claims a lot of correspondence  has been ignored  by the beneficiary 
or their representatives, but Im not aware  of an abundance of chasing activity and this 
seems to me to be more  of a case of MW accepting that the death benefits  are unlikely 
to be settled until this complaint  is resolved.  
Its understandable  in my view that Mrs C didnt progress with the payment  of death 
benefits whilst City Pensions  was unwilling to meet the tax charge (and I would reiterate 
that, notwithstanding MWs claims to the contrary,  that is a reasonable assessment of 
the approach  it took in much of its correspondence). Whilst she has a duty to mitigate  
her loss, the tax charge would  be significant   and she may have  needed to sell her 
share of the property  in order to meet it. Until more recently, that may not have fitted in 
with the familys wider plans in terms of the share of the property  owned  by the other 
SIPPs. 
In order to fairly resolve this complaint I need to make  an award in Mrs Cs favour.  If MW 
continues to consider  that the beneficiary  isnt moving matters forward  regarding the 
settlement of death benefits, Im afraid  that it will need to consider what  steps it may take 
as the SIPP  administrator.  The Financial  Ombudsman Service  doesnt provide 
instructions on how SIPPs  should be administered, nor do I expect MW or any other  
provider would take kindly to that. None of this alters  that, through  City Pensions  
actions, Mrs C has suffered a loss which should  be redressed.
fair compensation
MW says that Mr Cs benefits were uncrystallised at the time of his death, meaning 
paragraph 4, schedule 29 of the Finance  Act 2004  is relevant:
Ref: DRN129769111(4) The permitted maximum is the aggregate of
(a)  the amount  of the sums, and
(b)  the market value of the assets, which constitute  the relevant uncrystallised  
funds immediately before the payment is made.
Ive already said any growth of those uncrystallised  funds  between the date of the 
members death and the date the lump  sum is actually paid may be included in the 
payment. MW hasnt suggested that anything will require it to value the death benefits in 
any different way.
MW says that settlement of Mrs Cs tax loss must wait until the property has been sold,  
and this delay  shouldnt be dependent on Mrs Cs agreement.  It also says Mrs C should 
be forced to either transfer or sell the property within a set time period. MW doesnt 
make clear  what  it thinks should happen  if the property was sold after that point.
In my view requiring the property to be transferred to Mrs C personally may be an 
unnecessary step if she is trying  to sell it. But it is (and has always been) open to MW, 
as the current SIPP  administrator, to take whatever ongoing action it considers is 
necessary in the efficient management of the SIPP. As I indicated above, it seems  to me 
that MW has until now been accepting of the position that the death claim was unlikely to 
be resolved until this complaint has been  settled.
The property sale might take some time. But the beneficiaries  brought  this complaint to 
the ombudsman  service because they couldnt resolve the dispute  about the tax charge 
with City Pensions Limited   so its important that my award does provide for an outer 
date by which the tax dispute could be resolved (by City Pensions paying her 
compensation). I therefore require that City Pensions Limited takes  the following steps: 
1.An independent surveyor agreed by both parties is appointed to value the 
property within 28 days of the date City Pensions Limited is notified  that Mrs C 
accepts my final decision. (Or if a valuation has already  been  carried out in 
connection with the property sale that was acceptable for MWs  purposes as 
SIPP administrator, then that valuation should be used.)
2.A notional value for an uncrystallised  funds lump  sum death benefit is to be 
immediately determined  by adding the funds  held in the SIPP  less outstanding 
charges to Mrs Cs share  of the property. Mr C1 and Mrs C are to provide details 
of any missing rental receipts  to MW to enable  this calculation  to be carried  out.
3.On the assumption  that an uncrystallised funds  lump sum death benefit  equal to 
the figure in (2) was paid out on the date of the calculation, the notional  income  
tax charge on this is to be determined from her overall income  tax position in the 
year of assumed  payment. Mrs C should  provide  details of her other taxable 
income to City Pensions to enable this to be determined. City Pensions Limited is 
to reimburse Mrs C for this notional tax charge, subject to the additional caveats 
below. 
Any (notional) costs that have been or will be incurred by the SIPP in respect of the 
property sale can be deducted before  it is valued  in step 2. The calculations should be 
carried out as at a date that is 28 days after City Pensions Limiteds  receipt of Mrs Cs 
acceptance of my final decision.  If by the point  the calculations are carried out a buyer 
has already paid for the property, the actual sale value should  be used, and the actual 
death benefit payment made  to Mrs C should  be substituted for the figure  in (2) before 
the compensation is paid. 
Ref: DRN129769112If the compensation was based  on assumed values before the property was sold,  then 
the following caveats also apply:
Should the final tax charge Mrs C pays be greater than that determined in the 
calculation, City Pensions Limited  must also pay the difference  to Mrs C, plus 
further interest on the difference at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
she has paid the tax charge to the date of settlement.
Should the final tax charge Mrs C pays be less than that determined in the 
calculation, City Pensions Limited  may require an undertaking from Mrs C that 
she will repay it the difference.
I acknowledge the uncertainty in carrying out calculations based on estimated figures, 
but this uncertainty exists for both parties.  The actual uncrystallised funds lump  sum 
death benefit paid, and therefore the tax charge, could  end up being more  or less than 
the amount initially calculated.  But Mrs C is entitled to prefer  to settle at an approximate 
figure now, to avoid the uncertainty  as to when any of her loss will be settled. Mrs Cs 
representative has indicated she isnt willing to delay the calculation  until the property is 
sold. Having considered City Pensions  conduct  that has been the subject of this 
complaint, and how it has defended the complaint, I consider that what  Ive set out here 
is a fair and proportionate  remedy. 
Im permitted to make  an award  to settle  a complaint, the definition of which  in the 
regulators handbook,  with my emphasis, includes any allegation that the complainant 
has suffered (or may suffer)  financial loss, material distress  or material inconvenience.  
And under DISP  3.7.2R my award  may include  financial loss (including consequential  or 
prospective loss). So Im not bound to allow matters to continue indefinitely until the 
tax charge has been precisely quantified,  if an initial  calculation can be carried  out now 
based on reasonable assumptions.
I understand MWs points  about the difficulty of quantifying Mrs Cs exact  tax liability,  
including whether she would spread the benefits over different tax years.  To be clear, I 
had considered these issues in setting  out the compensation  and caveats above.  The 
death benefits were  originally due as a tax-free lump sum,  so Mrs C wouldnt have been 
constrained to having to split them across several  tax years.  And the delay in her 
wanting to take these  benefits when it would cause  her a tax charge, is likely to mean 
her need  for this money  has increased  over time. Therefore I dont think it would  be 
reasonable to expect  her to mitigate  her loss by delaying the payment even further. 
Had the death benefit been paid by transferring the share of the property from Mr Cs 
SIPP to Mrs C as originally intended,  it would in any event have been difficult  to split it 
across several tax years. However  if Mrs C does  wish to split the payments from the 
SIPP over several tax years and reduce her overall  tax burden, the undertaking City 
Pensions Limited may seek in the caveats above will require her to repay the overpaid 
amount of compensation  as will City Pensions assumptions of her overall tax rate 
proving to be too high.
If the compensation isnt paid within 28 days of the effective date of any calculation,  then 
it will attract interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of that calculation 
until it is settled.
Mrs C has also been caused unnecessary  distress, as City Pensions Limited not only 
failed to highlight  the two-year period when it was in a position to do so, but made a 
Ref: DRN129769113positive statement that all of the fund was available as a lump  sum. £300 must be paid 
for this distress caused  within  28 days of City Pensions Limited receiving Mrs Cs 
acceptance of my final decision  or it will attract interest at 8% per year simple  
thereafter.
Mrs C has a choice over whether to use the Financial Ombudsman  Service, which is 
free to consumers and doesnt expect them to need legal representation; or to go to 
court and seek costs  in the process. Ive seen nothing to suggest an award for her costs 
in bringing this complaint are warranted   and I make no further  award.
City Pensions Limited may take an assignment  of any rights  Mrs C may have  to pursue 
matters with FSCS regarding Pilgrim Trustees. But City Pensions Limited must first pay 
the initial compensation determined in steps 1-3 above to Mrs C, before being  able to 
take that assignment. It may also require Mrs C to give an undertaking  that she will 
repay to it any amount  which  she receives  from FSCS in connection with that complaint.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs C and Mr C1s complaint  and require compensation to be calculated  and 
paid to Mrs C, as set out in the fair compensation section  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr 
C1 to accept or reject  my decision before 12 April 2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1297691