K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc wont refund a payment made on his credit 
card to a secondary ticket  selling website (the Website) for four tickets to a concert. 
background
In November 2018 four tickets were purchased through the Website to attend  a concert in 
2019 using Mr Hs Tesco credit card. The total cost charged to his card was just over £1096.
Mrs H (who is also representing  Mr H in this complaint)  was the account holder with the 
website. Mr H was the account holder for the credit  card and Mrs H was an authorised user 
of that credit  card account. Mrs H received the tickets in time and went  to the concert with 
family. Mr H didnt  intend to go to the concert  and didnt go when the concert  happened.
As soon  as Mrs H got the confirmation of purchase  of the tickets  she complained. She says 
she thought that the tickets cost about  £70 each so she was dismayed to see shed  been  
charged £1096.  She believes that the website lied about the price  or that some sort of 
computer glitch led to the purchase  costing a lot more than she says she wanted to pay.
Mr H complained to Tesco who looked into the matter,  but it didnt think  it could help.  This 
was because it didnt  think it could pursue a chargeback because  it didnt  have a reasonable 
prospect of success in its view. It also thought  a Section 75 claim under the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful because there was no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation as far as it could see. So it didnt think it could do any more  for Mr H.
Mr H didnt think this was fair, so he and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly  by 
declining Mr Hs request  for a refund.  Mr H didnt agree.  So the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision  is not about the secondary ticket  selling  Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser  of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which Mrs H then bought). I can see from Mr H and Mrs Hs 
representations to the Investigator  after her assessment that they are (understandably)  
focusing on the behaviours of the website. However whatever issues there maybe with the 
websites behaviours over time it doesnt  necessarily  follow that Tesco has treated  Mr H 
unfairly. And the question of whether or not Tesco has treated Mr H fairly is the only question  
I can decide upon in this decision. This is an important  distinction which  I hope  Ive made 
sufficiently clear.
authorising the transaction
Mrs H accepts she selected  these  tickets and entered the card details into the website in 
order to purchase these tickets. She says she didnt agree to the price she was charged. 
This service has built up a knowledge of the websites processes over a number of years. 
Ref: DRN17527502Tesco also supplied screenshots of the website process to buy tickets for the same concert 
that Mrs H bought the tickets for at the time.
Ive considered both these sources  of evidence  of the websites processes. And Im satisfied 
that when purchases  were made  on that website at this time that the total cost was shown 
prior to the purchase being made.  So I dont think the website misrepresented  the price  to 
Mrs H when she bought  the tickets. I think  the total cost is shown before the payment is 
authorised.
So I think Mrs H properly authorised the transaction and Tesco correctly applied  this charge 
to Mr Hs account.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr H 
does here,  Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback  process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful.  But I should  add that card providers and indeed  merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including  goodwill, commercial  pragmatism  
and other  reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund  every transaction similar to this one.
I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis  Mr H didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue  that Ive already set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there  is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website)  would then receive  that 
chargeback request and may agree  to refund  the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Tesco should consider this and then if it still feels  the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further  and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Tesco) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Tesco isnt 
solely responsible  for the decision whether to refund or not when  going  through the 
chargeback process.  And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think  there  is 
a reasonable prospect of success.
When Mr H first spoke  to Tesco  it pointed out at that stage it couldnt raise a chargeback  as 
Mrs H had ordered the tickets and at that point there  was nothing persuasive to suggest that 
the tickets wouldnt  be supplied. So I think Tesco treated Mr H fairly  in that position it had 
taken. Latterly it has said that Mr H got tickets to the event so there is no persuasive 
evidence of any failure here by the website  concerned. And Mrs H accepts that they 
attended the concert and got in, hence  using the tickets that were  purchased.
So considering what it knew, all in all, I dont think Mr H has lost out due to Tescos approach 
to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Hs Tescos credit card. Under section  75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances,  he has an equal  right to claim against Tesco as he does against the 
Ref: DRN17527503supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In summary section 56 has the effect of making Tesco responsible  during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs H entering into the agreement. In essence  this 
means Tesco can be held responsible  for the things that were  done or said during the sales  
process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim  under  this legislation  there  must be a debtor-creditor-supplier  arrangement  
in place. This is often  referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks  like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide  what was purchased to the debtor)
This means  the person  who paid for the goods,  the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. But this isnt the case here. It was Mr Hs credit  card account that was used to 
pay for the transaction (through Mrs H being an additional card holder) but it was Mrs Hs 
account on the website purchasing the tickets. 
Mrs H says the credit card account  is a joint account, but it isnt. Mrs H is allowed  to spend 
on the credit  card account but only Mr H is liable for the repayments. So its not a joint 
account. Its Mr Hs account which Mrs H is allowed to spend on it.
And Mr H isnt the purchaser  of the tickets  and he wasnt due to go and didnt go when the 
concert happened. So in essence he is a fourth party in this situation.  
Ive reviewed the Websites terms and conditions which  explains that in order  to be able to 
use its services  account holders must  agree to its terms. It also says they will not allow  
customers to buy tickets  unless they have registered  with their service.  In this case  it was 
Mrs Hs account that was used to complete  the purchase,  so it is Mrs H who entered into the 
contract with the website  as she registered with them and also agreed to their terms when 
she completed the purchase.
Accordingly Im satisfied  that there isnt the necessary  DCS  relationship  present to make 
Tesco responsible  under this legislation. And thus it is fair that Tesco isnt responsible for 
any failings by the Website.  So Mr Hs complaint here fails.
As an aside  I should add that for the reasons already given  Im not persuaded by Mr Hs and 
Mrs Hs main complaint point that they didnt know the full amount that the tickets  cost. I 
think the total cost was shown before the transaction was completed.
For the sake of completeness Ill address  some  of the other  arguments  that have been  
made.
Mrs H points to online  comment about  the website, legal processes and a vast array of other  
relevant argument  about the website.  And clearly much has changed since those times 
about ticket selling websites such as this. But all of that doesnt  change the fact that I can 
only consider whether  Tesco  has treated Mr H fairly in its decision not to refund the cost of 
the tickets. And it can only be liable  if the transaction wasnt properly authorised,  it didnt go 
through the chargeback process properly or if DCS  is made  out that there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. And for the reasons given I dont think any of these are the 
case here.
Ref: DRN17527504In summary  this is a decision  about  what Tesco is responsible for. I think  that Mr H hasnt 
lost out here as I think Tesco  made  a fair decision in not taking the chargeback issue  further. 
Im satisfied the necessary relationship (DCS) isnt in place here so Tesco  cannot be held 
liable for any breach  or misrepresentation by the Website. And I think Tesco  correctly  
applied the cost of the tickets to Mr Hs credit card account. So I dont think  I can fairly  
require Tesco to refund  Mr H for the tickets. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against  Tesco  Personal 
Finance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  3 September 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1752750