K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that DJS (UK) Limited,  trading as PiggyBank, (DJS),  gave him short  term
loans which  were unaffordable.
background
Mr L took out four instalment loans with DJS. A summary of Mr Ls borrowing history  is
below:
Loan number
Date Loan amount Number of repayments  
and repayment  amountDate repaid
1. 26/8/2016 £400 7 fortnightly payments of 
£81.75 25/11/2016
2. 2/2/2017 £250 3 monthly payments of 
£122.972/5/2017
3. 6/9/2017 £350 4 monthly payments of 
£172.338/1/2018
4. 20/3/2018 £300 3 monthly payments of 
£133.11     -
Mr L said he doesnt believe  that DJS made  proper checks and if it had, it wouldnt have
approved his loans.  He had payday  loans with other  lenders  as well as long term loans,
multiple credit cards  and three overdrafts. He also had a gambling problem. Mr L said that if
DJS had checked  his credit file or asked for his bank statements, it wouldnt have approved
his loans.
DJS said that it had asked  for Mr Ls income and regular expenditure. To this it added  any
financial commitments  it could  see from Mr Ls credit  file. DJS noted that Mr L had told it that
his credit commitments were between £120 and £240. But it could see from its credit checks
that his credit commitments were  between £477.28  and £572.14, leaving a disposable
income of between £487.86  and £582.72. It said that the adverse credit file information on
Mr Ls credit  file was historical but it didnt automatically consider that a reason not to lend.
DJS said that Mr L had sufficient disposable income  to make the loan repayments and there
was nothing on his credit file that suggested signs of financial difficulty.
DJS also noted that Mr L had complained to it about harassment as hed received 15 emails
and texts from it. DJS said that its loan agreement terms said that it would attempt to contact
Mr L if his repayments  were late. It also said that it contacts borrowers to ensure that
repayments are comfortable and affordable.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator said that the checks DJS had made  on Loans 1 to 3 went far enough. But on
Loan 4 she said that DJS should have  also checked  Mr Ls short  term credit commitments.
She had checked  Mr Ls credit file and noted  that he had one short  term loan repayable with
a repayment amount  of £28. So the adjudicator  said that even if DJS had asked about other
short term lending, the repayments for Loan  4 would  have seemed affordable.
Mr L disagreed. He said that if DJS had made proper checks, it would have  seen he had
multiple loans with other payday lenders, credit cards and long term loans. His outgoings far
exceeded his income.  And if his bank statements had been checked, DJS would have seen
Ref: DRN15349382he had a serious gambling  problem. Mr L was also borrowing one loan to repay  another  or to
pay his everyday expenses. He also said that DJS shouldnt have relied on the application
form as there could be mistakes.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to DJS on 6 March  2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Mr L had complained to DJS about  harassment in his complaint to DJS. But as 
he didnt include that issue  in his complaint to this service, I said that I wouldnt be 
considering it here.
Id noted that DJS was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make checks to make sure
Mr L could afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr L was borrowing,  the length  of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks DJS had to do.
Id explained that the Financial Conduct Authority  was the regulator at the time Mr L 
borrowed from DJS. Its regulations require  lenders  to take reasonable steps  to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The regulations define sustainable as being able to make 
repayments without  undue difficulty,  and that this meant borrowers should be able to make 
their repayments on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to 
meet these repayments.
DJS had explained in its final response letter about the checks it did before giving Mr L each  
of the loans. It asked  him to provide details of his income and regular expenditure, including
any credit  commitments. DJS also reviewed Mr Ls credit file and added an amount
representing Mr Ls credit  commitments  to his expenses  figure  to ascertain Mr Ls disposable
income.
Loan 1
Id noted that Mr L needed to make seven  repayments of £81.75 per fortnight. Id considered
the level of borrowing in comparison with the income of £1,900 and expenditure of £810
(including credit commitments) Mr L declared to DJS. Id also considered  that DJS
deducted an amount  for additional  credit  commitments from Mr Ls income in making its 
assessment. The loan repayments were  still relatively low in comparison with Mr Ls income,
and I could see that the loan seemed affordable.  Id noted DJSs credit file check  showed  
that Mr L had seven other open  credit accounts but these didnt appear to include other 
payday loans.  There was also a defaulted  account from around two years before Loan 1 but 
Id thought that was sufficiently long ago not to have caused DJS additional concerns. There  
was otherwise little to suggest to DJS at this stage that Mr L wasnt using the loan in the way 
it was intended   as a short term solution to a temporary cash  flow problem. So I didnt think
DJS was wrong to agree to this loan.
Loan 2
Mr L applied for Loan 2 just over two months after Loan 1 was repaid. The loan repayments
Ref: DRN15349383had reduced to £122.97 per month  for three months. DJSs records show  that Mr L had 
stated a disposable income of £1,090  which  was the same  as before Loan 1. His declared 
outgoings included  credit repayments of £120,  which was the same amount as hed stated 
before Loan 1.
But Id noted that DJSs  credit check showed that Mr L had an additional defaulted account.
And the number of his credit accounts  had increased from seven to ten and he had a new
unsecured loan for £1,777. So, Id thought  DJS should have been on notice that it was 
unlikely Mr Ls financial position was as good as he was declaring.  Id noted that DJS took 
into consideration an amount representing the credit commitments it saw on its credit check. 
But whilst its assessment  still showed that Mr L had a significant amount of disposable 
income each month, Id thought DJS should  still have  been concerned that Mr L had an 
additional defaulted account and an increasing  need  for credit which might have suggested 
that Mr L was in financial difficulty.  So, I thought that DJS should  have  been  concerned  
about whether  it knew enough about Mr Ls financial situation before lending  to him. And I 
thought it would have been  proportionate for DJS to have asked some  questions about what 
the credit  checks showed and for it to independently check  the information Mr L had 
provided. It couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of 
Mr Ls income and expenditure such as payslips and bills or it couldve looked at things like 
his bank statements. I couldnt see that it had done this.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was for an increased amount of £350  repayable by four increased monthly
repayments of £172.33.  But Mr Ls declared disposable income had decreased  to £970. And
Id noted that DJSs credit  check showed  that Mr Ls situation hadnt improved. He now had 
14 credit  accounts and the total amount owed to creditors  had increased. So, I thought DJS 
should have again been on notice that it was unlikely Mr Ls financial situation was as good 
as he was declaring. And it ought  to have  been concerned about the risk to Mr L of him not
managing to make his repayments in a sustainable  manner. So I thought it ought to again 
have put together a clearer picture  of his finances  before agreeing  to lend to him, rather than
relying on adding  an amount  to his expenses to reflect the credit commitments  it had seen
on its credit  check.
Loan 4
The loan amount for Loan 4 had decreased  to £300  repayable by three monthly repayments
of £133.11. Mr Ls declared disposable income remained at £970.  But DJSs credit  check
showed that Mr Ls financial situation  had significantly worsened. He now had another recent
defaulted account, a delinquent account and a payday loan account for £507. The number of 
credit accounts had increased  to nineteen credit  accounts with an increase in total credit
value of £1,344. So again I thought  DJS couldnt rely on what  Mr L had told it, and that it 
ought to have again gathered a more comprehensive view of Mr Ls circumstances.
Although I didnt think that the checks DJS did on Loans 2 to 4 were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Ls complaint should  succeed. I also needed to see whether what
Id considered to be proportionate checks would have shown DJS that Mr L couldnt 
sustainably afford Loans  2 to 4.
So Id thought DJS should have been independently checking what Mr L was earning and
spending each  month. So Id tried to do this by looking at Mr Ls bank statements at the
time of these loans  to see what better  checks would have shown DJS. The bank statements
Ref: DRN15349384might not have shown  DJS everything  it wouldve  seen by carrying out proportionate checks.
But Id thought that the bank statements were the best indication of Mr Ls ability  to afford the 
loans at the time they were approved.  So I didnt think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
Loan 2
If DJS had checked Mr Ls bank  statements  before Loan 2, it would have seen that he was
earning less than hed declared,  around £1,400. His wife contributed  £583  to living costs, but
the normal living costs  and regular financial commitments shown on the statements
appeared to total around £2,100. DJS would also have become  aware that Mr L appeared to
be gambling heavily  with gambling  expenditure of over £2,600. Mr Ls spending  on gambling
together with his outgoings I thought made  it clear  that any new borrowing was unlikely to be
repaid sustainably. So overall, if DJS had carried out what  I considered  to be proportionate
checks before Loan 2, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that Loan  2 wasnt
sustainable.
Loan 3
If DJS had checked Mr Ls financial information  before Loan 3, it would have seen that he
was earning less than hed declared, around £1,300.  His wife contributed £583 to living
costs, but normal living  costs and regular financial commitments appeared to be around
£2,100. Mr L was still gambling heavily with gambling expenditure of over £1,500. Mr L had
also taken out two other short term loans totalling £750 which would have been  repayable
around the same time as Loan 3. Mr Ls living costs, his spending on gambling and his need
to borrow to fund his gambling I thought  made it clear that any new borrowing was unlikely  to
be repaid sustainably. So overall,  if DJS had carried out what  I considered to be 
proportionate checks before Loan 3, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that 
Loan 3 wasnt  sustainable.
Loan 4
If DJS had checked Mr Ls financial information  before Loan 4, it would have seen that he
was still earning less than hed declared, around £1,640. His wife again  contributed £583 to
living costs,  but normal  living  costs and regular financial commitments appeared to be
around £1,840.  And Mr L was still gambling heavily with gambling  expenditure of over £950.
So overall, if DJS had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks  before 
Loan 4, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that Loan 4 wasnt sustainable.
Id noted that Mr L did receive some winnings from gambling but these were substantially  
less than hed spent. So, overall,  I thought if DJS had done what  I considered  to be 
proportionate checks, it would have  seen the problems with Mr Ls financial situation. And as 
a responsible lender, I didnt think it would have  agreed to lend Loans 2 to 4 to him. So, I 
thought that DJS needed to pay Mr L some compensation relating  to Loans 2 to 4.
Subject to any further representations by Mr L or DJS my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  DJS (UK) Limited,  trading as 
PiggyBank, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr L paid on Loans 2 and 3;
2. Refund all interest and charges that Mr L paid on Loan 4;
3. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
Ref: DRN153493854. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 4;
5. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and
    pay  any balance  to Mr L; and
6. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2 to 4 from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS to take off tax from this interest. DJS must give Mr L
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If DJS intends to apply
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision to say that it was a fair outcome and he had 
nothing to add.
DJS responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both Mr L and DJS have accepted my provisional decision and given me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require DJS to pay 
Mr L some  compensation  as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order DJS (UK) Limited, trading as PiggyBank,  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr L paid on Loans 2 and 3;
2. Refund all interest and charges that Mr L paid on Loan 4;
3. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
4. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 4;
5. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and
    pay  any balance  to Mr L; and
6. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2 to 4 from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS to take off tax from this interest. DJS must give Mr L
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If DJS intends to apply
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1534938