K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when telling 
them about  the effect of a lump sum payment on their mortgage.  They  want  compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Barclays. Mr S called to find out the effect  on his monthly 
mortgage payments  if he paid in a lump sum, and was repeatedly told that the monthly 
payment would drop to around  £30 a month until the mortgage  ended in 2019. Mr S said that 
he queried this at the time as it seemed too low, but was told it was correct. Mr S paid in the 
sum and was told a few days later that the monthly  payments would much higher. 
Mr and Mrs S were  upset, particularly as theyd  given  relatives  money and repaid other 
debts instead  of repaying the mortgage  and said they were now struggling to pay the 
monthly mortgage payments without continuing  to work.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays. It accepted that it gave incorrect  information to Mr S, 
but refused to allow the monthly payments to fall to around £30 a month  as it would mean  
the mortgage wouldnt be paid in full when the term ended.  Barclays  paid £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigators  view was that Barclays  did give incorrect 
information to Mr S, but Barclays  offer was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. He 
said that Mr and Mrs S were able to pay the mortgage and had been  misinformed  for only a 
few days.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that this service wasnt impartial.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses, but to 
ensure consumers are put back into the position that they shouldve been in all along if the 
error hadnt happened.
In Mr and Mrs S case, if the mistake hadnt  happened, they would still have to pay the full 
amount due under the mortgage due to its terms and conditions.  Theres no dispute that 
Mr and Mrs S were  given incorrect information;  even  Mr S questioned if it was right at the 
time as the figure of around £30 a month was so dramatically different to the actual monthly 
payments. Mr and Mrs S are required  to repay  the mortgage in full, and reducing  the monthly 
payments required  will simply leave them with a debt when the mortgage ended,  something  
which Mr S told Barclays that he didnt want to happen.
And while I accept Mr and Mrs S did spent money  immediately after making the lump  sum 
payment, they arent in mortgage arrears and the mortgage is due to end shortly. I think  its 
fair and reasonable for them to be compensated for the trouble and upset  caused  by 
Barclays mistake. But much of their upset is about having to pay a debt which is legally 
owed and which they agreed  to pay in full nearly  15 years ago. Mr and Mrs S were told 
within a few days the correct position. Having considered all the evidence available to me 
and the circumstances, I think £150  compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN11541442my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before  9 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1154144