K820x#14complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that an independent  financial adviser, Melvyn  R Davies 
Esq, mis-sold  them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
2005 when they applied  for a joint mortgage.
background
Mrs A and Mr A complained to this Service. They said they applied  for a joint 
mortgage in 2005 from an independent  financial adviser, Mr Davies. They said the 
PPI was mis-sold because they were  told they needed to  have the PPI to secure the 
mortgage and were  not told the cost of it. They first complained to  the lender  which 
said it was not responsible. The lender said the broker, Mr Davies, was responsible 
and so Mrs A and Mr A complained  to him.
Mr Davies said he was not responsible for the PPI sale. He said another broker  sold 
the PPI and he has not seen that person for around 10 years.  He said he had never 
spoken to Mrs A or Mr A and his only role was to give the mortgage application to 
the lender on behalf of Mrs A and Mr As broker. He  also pointed  out the mortgage 
application only asked for a PPI quote  before  Mrs A and Mr A were charged for it.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Davies was responsible for looking at  this PPI mis-sale  
complaint. Mr Davies disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for  the matter 
to be looked at again. In my first decision,  I said I thought  Mr Davies was responsible 
for the PPI sale. However, I am able to review a case at any time up  until the final 
decision is issued. So I have reviewed this case  again but only in respect of whether 
Mr Davies is responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale  complaint for Mrs A and Mr 
A.
my findings
I considered all of the available evidence and arguments presented to me to  decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of  this complaint and to determine 
whether this Service is able to consider  this complaint against  Mr Davies. 
I looked at all the documents very carefully  and I make the following observations:
Having seen a copy of Mrs As and Mr As mortgage application form, I think it 
is clear  there was a mortgage interview where Mrs A and Mr A were  given 
advice about  PPI;
the mortgage adviser recommended Mrs A and Mr A should buy PPI to cover 
them for accident and sickness  and ticked the box for  that cover;
it is not clear what discussions Mrs A and Mr A had either between 
themselves, the mortgage adviser  or with any other  third  party, but it looks  like 
they chose not to take the mortgage advisers  advice about PPI;
Mrs A and Mr A took further  steps to buy a different policy which gave them 
accident, sickness and unemployment  cover;
Mrs A and Mr A are now complaining about  the policy they bought.
Ref: DRN18571242So having reconsidered the case and taking  everything into account, I dont think  Mr 
Davies is responsible  for looking  at this PPI mis- sale complaint because I dont think  
Mrs A and Mr A followed  the PPI recommendation they were given  at the mortgage 
sale.
my final decision
My decision  is that Melvyn R Davies Esq. is not responsible for looking at this PPI 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision  before  15 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857124