K822xcomplaint
Mr Ts complaint is about a central heating insurance  policy sold to him by Dynamo
Cover Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2020,  part of which is copied below: 
Mr T wanted to take out central heating insurance  in January 2018. He was concerned to
make sure that the policy  would cover his boiler, as it was oil-powered  rather than gas.
Having received a quote from a comparison website, he phoned Dynamo to discuss this and
was told that his oil-powered boiler would be covered. Based on this, Mr T took out the
policy.
The policy came with an agreement that Mr T would be entitled  to a free boiler service once
the policy had been in place for four months. In April 2018, Mr T phoned Dynamo to arrange
the service. Mr T says he kept being  promised that someone would call him back to book
this in but never was. Mr T says that he had to phone 12 times and on the twelfth call, he
was told the policy doesnt cover his boiler, as it is oil-powered. Dynamo  said it would
therefore cancel  the policy and refund the premium Mr T had paid.
Mr T is extremely unhappy  about this. He says he was caused a great  deal of stress and
worry, as he realised he had not been insured at all and that his boiler  was by then overdue
a service by several  months. Mr T says he immediately arranged for the boiler to be
serviced, to ensure his home was safe for his family (as a cost of around  £90) which also
meant he had to take unpaid leave which lost him £175 pay. Mr T has asked  for these
amounts to be reimbursed  and for compensation for the fact the policy  was mis-sold to him.
Dynamo initially said it wasnt  aware that Mr Ts boiler was oil-powered  when it first sold the
policy and therefore  it was not at fault for the fact Mr T was not eligible for cover.  However, it
subsequently said the boiler was in fact covered.  Thered been a misunderstanding on its 
part as it had changed underwriters around  the time Mr T was first told this and the new
underwriter didnt cover oil-powered boilers  but the policy provided to Mr T did cover them.
As Mr T had received a suitable policy  with cover for his boiler, it was not mis-sold; Mr T
received the cover he wanted.
Dynamo also said that by the time it refunded Mr Ts premium, the policy  had been  in place
for almost the full year anyway, so he had in effect  received the cover free. Dynamo says
Mr T has therefore  been compensated for the misinformation given to him. Dynamo  also
said that the boiler service agreement is not part of the insurance cover and so any
complaint about  this is out of our jurisdiction.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He agreed with Dynamo that the issues
around the annual service  are outside  our jurisdiction  and so he could not look into that. With
regard to the allegation the policy was mis-sold and the misinformation given to Mr T about
the cover, the investigator recommended  that this complaint be upheld and that Dynamo  pay
Mr T £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Dynamo acknowledged that Mr T was inconvenienced and agreed to pay an additional £85
(in addition  to the £115 premium refund)  to total the £200 settlement recommended  by the
Ref: DRN12013162investigator. It does  not agree to pay an additional  £200.
Mr T was still unhappy that he was out-of-pocket for the cost of the annual  service and his
lost pay however, he confirmed he accepts the investigators recommendation.
jurisdiction
The investigator explained to both parties  that we can look at the allegation of mis-sale of the
policy, and the misinformation about  the policy cover, as they are both insurance  broker
activities that are covered  by our scheme, but we cannot look into the problems Mr T
experienced in trying  to book the annual service or the fact is was not carried  out. This is
because this was an agreement outside  of the insurance policy  itself.  Although  both were
sold by Dynamo, we only have power to consider regulated activities and it is correct that the
service agreement is outside our jurisdiction.  That was not disputed but for completeness, I
confirm that this is correct. Therefore I cant consider  the delays experienced by Mr T in
trying to book the annual  service appointment and the fact he says he had to call twelve
times to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  about the sale of the policy and the effect
on Mr T of the misinformation given to him about  the cover.
Mr T was misinformed when he tried to arrange the annual service about  the cover  under his
policy. This error on Dynamos part continued  even once the complaint came to us. It was
only later that Dynamo confirmed this policy did in fact cover  oil-powered  boilers. Mr T says
this is Dynamo covering  up but his policy doesnt  exclude oil-powered boilers. The policy  did
cover Mr Ts boiler and so it was not mis-sold. It provided the cover Mr T specifically wanted.
Dynamo refunded  the premium for the policy but it didnt have to. It appears it did so 
because it was still under the misapprehension that the policy did not cover  oil-powered 
boilers.
I have to consider  what impact this misinformation  had on Mr T. When the complaint  came to
us, he was greatly concerned that he had not in fact been insured  at all, and that he and his
family had potentially been put at risk. But as stated above this wasnt  correct. His boiler had
been insured.
However, I accept that Mr T was caused  some  inconvenience and worry. Dynamo should
have been able to advise  Mr T properly about the products it was selling. While I cant
consider the service agreement, Mr T says he wasnt  able to have the free annual service
carried to because he was wrongly told his policy didnt cover  him and so I think we can
consider this as a possible financial  loss arising  from the misinformation given to him.
However, I dont intend to ask Dynamo  to pay any more that the investigator has already
recommended.
Mr T says he lost earnings to attend  the annual service because he had to arrange it at short
notice, as it was by then overdue.  However, someone would always  have to be present
while the service was done  and so, even if there were independent proof he had lost
earnings (which there isnt) I am not persuaded this was a direct  consequence of the error
made by Dynamo.
Ref: DRN12013163Having taken everything into account, I consider that the £200  already recommended by the
investigator, taken  together with the refund of the premium (£115), is sufficient compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by Dynamo wrongly telling  Mr T the boiler  wasnt
covered. This takes account  of the frustration  caused and having  to arrange and pay for the
annual service privately.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Dynamo Cover Limited to pay Mr T a total of
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his policy
(this is in addition to the refund of premium already made).
 
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Dynamo has confirmed  it has nothing further to add. 
Mr T is willing to accept  the £200 compensation although he still considers  that more  
compensation would be reasonable. He says the policy  was mis-sold to him. Dynamo never 
told him that he had been covered all along.  It cancelled the policy  and refunded him, which  
is an admission that it was at fault and that the policy  had been  mis-sold. Dynamo  has since 
told us that he was covered all along and blamed it on a change of underwriters  but that 
sounds a far fetched .
Mr T has also asked  that I reconsider the matter  of his claim for loss of earnings. He says he 
would not have been required to take unpaid leave if it were  not for Dynamos error. Instead  
his boiler was well overdue for a service,  for all he knew it could have been dangerous; he 
could not take any chances and so had to take immediate unpaid  leave from work to get the 
service carried  out. He says he would not have needed to do this, if the service been  booked 
in advance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Dynamo still misunderstood the policy  cover, even when the complaint 
first came to us. It was only after we were involved that it confirmed Mr T was covered  after 
all. However, Dynamos misunderstanding of that doesnt mean the policy  was mis-sold. I 
have considered the terms of the policy sold to Mr T and there is no exclusion of oil-powered  
boilers. The policy does  therefore cover oil-powered  boilers  which  is what Mr T wanted   
so I do not consider that it was mis-sold. Even if it was however, the remedy for this would 
be a refund of the premiums, which Dynamo  has already done. Mr T was however 
misinformed by Dynamo later on about the cover. 
While I note Mr Ts comments about his loss of earnings, I do not consider I can reasonably 
require Dynamo to pay him loss of earnings.  As mentioned  in my provisional decision there 
is no independent proof Mr T lost earnings as a result of being  at home for a service  to be 
carried out. But, even  if there were,  it did not necessarily have to be him in attendance; and, 
Ref: DRN12013164while he felt he had to have the service  done  urgently,  I am not convinced  it was so urgent 
that it would  not have  been possible to schedule it at a time that would not have involved  a 
financial loss to him. I do not therefore  consider it is fair or reasonable to require Dynamo to 
pay him loss of earnings. 
No other  information  or arguments have  been provided, so I remain  of the opinion  that £200  
is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr T for the misinformation given to him by Dynamo 
for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision and copied  above. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Dynamo  Cover  Limited to pay Mr T a total of
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his policy
(this is in addition to the refund of premium already made).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1201316