K820x#14complaint
Mr W is known  by his middle  name.  Hes complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc will no longer 
accept cheques payable  to his middle name.  
background
Mr W has been known by his middle  name for most of his life and uses this name 
professionally. Hes banked with Lloyds for over 30 years but, about five years ago, they 
started refusing  some cheques payable to his middle name. Mr W says that Lloyds are now 
refusing all of these cheques. 
Mr W says he feels  humiliated and embarrassed by Lloyds change  in their policy towards 
his account. He also strongly objects to any suggestion that he should now start to use his 
first name in any professional or personal  capacity. 
Our adjudicator found Lloyds were following their cheque acceptance policy. Because  of this 
she felt they were acting  reasonably in refusing to accept cheques  that werent payable to 
the name under which Mr Ws bank  account  was held. 
Lloyds agreed  with the adjudicator but Mr W didnt.  Hes unhappy that Lloyds have referred 
to the Cheques Act 1992 as justification  for their actions, and he would like the Ombudsman 
to look at the legal justification for the banks policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cheque payments
Ive seen Lloyds  policy on accepting cheques. This says the payee and the account  title 
should match, which for Mr W isnt the case.  Lloyds say the acceptance  of Mr Ws cheques 
has always been at the branch managers discretion and they have no legal obligation  to 
accept these. Lloyds  also say that Mr W was told of this policy by his relationship manager.
The system notes on Mr Ws account  show that the cheques were accepted under 
discretion. There are seven notes  made  between November 2011 to July 2016, all of which 
say ***PLEASE ACCEPT  CHEQUES MADE PAYABLE TO [Mr Ws middle name]*** Client  
has paid these cheques  in for many years.
I agree  with the adjudicator that its reasonable for Lloyds  to follow  their procedures. While 
its clearly frustrating for Mr W, just because discretion has been given in the past this 
doesnt mean Lloyds  have  to continue applying this discretion  in the future.  Ive seen that 
Lloyds also have refunded Mr W his overdraft charges  that are linked  to the refusal  of these  
cheques. I consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances so I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
Ref: DRN14724072Lloyds have said that Mr W can ask to set up an account in his professional name   his 
middle name   and this request would be considered by the branch manager.  Lloyds  also 
say Mr W can continue to submit  cheques as he has done previously, and the acceptance of 
these would be down  to the branch manager.  I feel that Lloyds are acting reasonably by 
offering Mr W these  options and the ongoing use of discretion but they have also made  it 
clear that acceptance  of these cheques arent guaranteed.
Cheques Act 1992
Mr W has asked  me to consider the legal justification for Lloyds policy. It isnt the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  to decide  what policies financial business should have in 
place. This is a decision Lloyds can make  in line with its regulator   The Financial Conduct 
Authority. For this reason  I wont comment further on Lloyds  policy and the Cheques Act 
1992. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  about  Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1472407