K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that ERV Services Limited  declined a claim under their travel  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a multi-trip basic worldwide travel insurance policy  with ERV, to 
provide cover for overseas trips.  They later went abroad, leaving the UK on 10 August 2018. 
They were  then due to board an internal flight on 18 August, where they had an excursion 
booked from 18 August to 26 August, after which they were due to fly back to the UK.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs C had to cancel the excursion and cut short  their holiday because 
the internal flight  was delayed. There were no available flights until 20 August,  meaning 
theyd miss the start of the excursion.  They considered alternatives, but as there were  no 
reasonable options available, they decided to fly home, arriving in the UK on 19 August. 
Before they flew back to the UK, Mr and Mrs C were told by ERV theyd be able to make a 
claim under the curtailment section of the policy. The cost of the internal flight  had been 
refunded, and so they just claimed  for the cost of the pre-booked excursion. But ERV 
declined the claim, stating  the policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances that had led 
to Mr and Mrs C cutting short their trip and cancelling the excursion.  
Mr and Mrs C argued  that they considered the internal trip as a separate trip and that as it 
was cancelled due to a delay of over twelve hours, it should be covered. But ERV 
maintained its position. It accepted curtailment was initially mentioned as the trip was cut 
short, but it explained the circumstances  didnt meet the criteria for curtailment, and that the 
cancellation section  only applied to trips that were  cancelled  because of specified  
circumstances, none of which applied.
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied and so they complained to this service. They explained they 
went overseas and had booked  what amounted to a separate trip to take while they were 
away, booked independently  through a different company. They  said they considered the 
internal flight and excursion as completely separate from the main  trip, and that as the 
excursion was abandoned due to a delay  of over twelve hours, it should be covered. They 
also said theyd made it clear when they took out the policy  that they were taking a number 
of trips and that theyd understood all aspects of the holiday would be covered by the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He accepted Mr and Mrs C had 
made every effort to change their travel plans and that theyd  contacted ERV before they 
flew home.  But he explained the circumstances Mr and Mrs C had claimed  for werent 
covered under the policy. He was satisfied the policy was clearly worded and he didnt  think  
the decision to decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied and have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. They argue that the term multi-trip isnt clearly defined, and that the 
implication is that the policy would provide cover  for a number of holidays booked separately  
while out of the UK, whether or not you return to the UK during each trip. They dont  accept 
the travel  delay section  specifies  that the trip must start in the UK and they consider it unfair  
to interpret the internal flight and associated excursion as a part of an overall trip.
Finally, they argue that they werent  emailed  the policy  documents  until after they took out 
the policy and that they should have been told the policy didnt provide cover trips which 
Ref: DRN18715362began outside  of the UK. They say they were persuaded to buy multi-trip cover instead of 
single trip cover after a discussion  about  the type of holidays they planned to take.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr and Mrs C have said they made it clear when  they took out the policy that they were 
taking a number  of trips and they were  led to believe that all aspects of the holiday would be 
covered by the policy. As ERV wasnt  responsible for the sale of the policy,  this isnt 
something I can consider.  Theyve  also said they didnt receive the policy  documents  until 
after they took out the policy. But once they did receive them they had an opportunity to 
cancel the policy within the cooling off period, and Im satisfied that was fair.
Im satisfied the policy is clearly worded and that the terms and conditions are reasonable. 
A multi-trip  policy provides cover  for more  than one trip, as opposed to one single trip. I 
accept theres no specific definition, but Im satisfied the use of the word multi makes it 
reasonably clear that the policy provides cover for more than one trip. Further  the policy 
states each trip must begin  and end in the United Kingdom and so I dont accept 
Mr and Mrs Cs suggestion that the policy wording implies theres cover for separate  
holidays, whether  or not you return to the UK during each trip. 
The policy covered pre-booked excursions for up to £300, in the event of cancellation or 
curtailment, so Im satisfied the excursion  Mr and Mrs C were forced to cancel was 
something the policy could have covered, provided  there was an insured event. Ive 
considered the relevant sections of the policy below:
cancellation
The policy provided  cover  for cancellation  in six specified circumstances including 
unforeseen illness and delay. But ERV has explained  the cancellation section would only 
apply if the whole holiday had been  cancelled, which wasnt  the case as Mr and Mrs C 
began their holiday on 10 August. It has also argued that the policy  defined  a trip as a trip 
which begins and ends in the UK and therefore the cancelled excursion wouldnt be 
considered as a separate trip.
The policy only provided cover for cancellation for specific reasons, and having considered 
the circumstances that caused Mr and Mrs C to cancel the excursion, Im satisfied that none  
of those reasons  applied.  The policy did provide cover for cancellation where  the 
policyholder abandoned  the trip following  a delay of more than 12 hours  to the departure  of 
your outward  trip, but, as ERV has argued, this doesnt apply here because  the delay wasnt  
to the outward trip. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C believe the internal flight they had booked  should be considered 
as the start of a separate holiday,  but I dont accept  that it was. Its very common  for holidays 
to involve different  legs or parts and there are often internal flights or flights  to other 
countries within  the same  holiday. Its also common for people  to use different  companies  to 
book the different parts of their holidays, for a number  of reasons. I understand 
Mr and Mrs C were visiting family before  embarking on a tour in a different  part of the 
country, but I dont  accept  this constituted a separate holiday for the purposes of this claim. 
Ref: DRN18715363Further, the policy is clear  that they covered trip should start and end in the United Kingdom 
and while  I accept the flight and excursion were booked separately from the main  trip, that 
part of the trip didnt  start and end in the United  Kingdom.
Overall, Im satisfied ERVs decision not to settle  the claim under the cancellation section  
was fair and reasonable.
curtailment 
ERV accepted the trip had been cut short, but it noted that was due to a cancelled flight, and 
not for one of the reasons specified  under  the curtailment section of the policy.  The policy 
provided cover for the policyholders inability to complete  a trip due to specified  
circumstances including  unforeseen  illness, jury service and accidental  damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire affecting the home, occurring during the trip. 
I accept Mr and Mrs Cs holiday was cut short but the fact it wasnt  due to one of the 
specified reasons  means ERVs decision not to cover the claim under the curtailment section 
of the policy  was fair and reasonable. I understand they were told they could claim for 
curtailment but I dont think they based their decision to cut short their holiday on this advice 
and I dont think theyd  have done  anything  different  if theyd known the section wouldnt 
apply (as theyve already said there  were  no other  reasonable options available to them).
travel delay
The policy provided  cover  for travel  delay if the intended departure of your first outward  or 
final inward international flight, sea crossing or coach or train journey forming part of a 
booked trip is delayed. ERV explained the claim wasnt  covered under  the travel  delay 
section of the policy as it wasnt  the first outbound or final inbound flight for the trip that was 
delayed, and as I dont consider the internal trip and excursion constituted  a separate  trip, I 
consider that was fair.
conclusion
I understand Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed  but, overall, Im satisfied ERVs decision to 
decline the claim was fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1871536