K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains Shop Direct  Finance  Company Limited (SDFCL) trading as Very, gave him 
incorrect information regarding his account, took a direct debit payment after he had made a 
manual payment resulting  in bank charges and unfairly reduced his credit limit. He asks for 
his credit limit to be reinstated and compensation for the trouble and upset  this matter has 
caused.
background
Mr J has held a Very account for some time. In October 2018, he missed a direct  debit  
payment on his account. Very sent a missed payment letter and Mr J incurred a £15 fee, the 
letter explained Mr J now owed £152.54 which should be paid by 12 November 2018 to bring  
his account up to date.
On 31 October, Mr J made a manual payment of £152.54 but Very called the direct debit 
amount of £152.54  anyway and reduced his credit limit from £1050 to £950. Mr J complained 
as he incurred bank  charges and he says reducing his credit limit caused  him to go into 
arrears.
Mr J complained to Very about paying  twice and pointed out the 28 day variable direct debit 
payment cycle was causing him problems,  as this wasnt compatible  with his salary  pay 
dates. It told Mr J to contact the bank, he did and the bank refunded the direct debit. Very 
had already reduced Mr Js credit  limit and so the refund resulted in Mr Js account going  
into arrears, in December  2018.  The account remained in arrears in January and February 
2019.
In its final response,  SDFCL said the variable direct  debit payment cycle were  part of the 
terms and conditions of the account,  which Mr J had agreed to. It also pointed to the direct  
debit terms which states it will call the statement amount by direct  debit regardless of any 
alternative payments  made. It didnt agree it had acted unfairly  but did acknowledge that 
when Mr J had been given misinformation  and poor customer service. It upheld this aspect 
of his complaint  and paid Mr J £30 compensation in recognition of this.
Mr J remained  dissatisfied. Our investigator  looked  into things for Mr J. He looked at the 
terms and conditions of the account  and although  he understood Mr Js frustration, he felt 
SDFCL had acted  fairly  and reasonably.  He said SDFCL had acknowledged the poor 
customer service  afforded to Mr J and the £30 compensation was a fair and reasonable 
award in recognition of this.
Mr J disagreed with the outcome and asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the investigator.  I know 
this will be a disappointment to Mr J. Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive carefully considered the terms and the conditions of Mr Js account. As the 
investigator pointed  out Clause  3 of the credit agreement says:
Ref: DRN16173752..You will be sent a statement  every 28 days. The minimum payment due will be shown  on 
the statement  and will be 20 days after the date of your statement.
So, whilst I appreciate this payment cycle may be problematic because of how and when 
Mr J receives  his salary, the payment terms are clearly  set out and Im not able to direct  
SDFCL to amend  or alter them. Mr J has agreed to the terms of the account  and so he is 
responsible for ensuring he meets the minimum payment required.
The crux of Mr Js complaint centres  on a manual payment he made which  was followed by 
a variable direct debit payment. Ive looked at the Confirmation of Direct Debit  Instruction it 
says:
 We will take the amount  shown on your statement. The amount  will not reduce if you make 
an additional  payment via alternative methods. If you wish to clear the balance  via an 
alternative method,  please deduct the amount we plan to take via direct  debit from your 
payment
It also says:
Please be aware  in accordance with your terms and conditions, you will be charged a £15 
administration fee for any direct debit payment that is returned to us unpaid by your bank
I can appreciate why Mr J made  the manual payment in October but the terms and 
conditions of the account are clear in respect  of any manual  payments  made  so I cant say 
SDFCL have acted  unfairly or unreasonably in calling the direct  debit  for the amount shown 
on the statement.
I can see Mr J became  frustrated in trying to resolve  the situation and SDFCL  have 
acknowledged they did provide poor customer service and misinformation on this matter. 
They have offered Mr J a £30 good  will gesture by way of apology and Im persuaded this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the decision to reduce Mr Js credit  limit. SDFCL have confirmed this was an 
automated system decision. A business  is entitled to review credit  limits regularly and may 
take the decision to increase or decrease  a credit limit based on a number of factors  
including payment history, your credit  file and the amount of credit held elsewhere.  This 
service cant direct  a business to amend,  alter or change a credit limit.
Mr Js statements show missed payments in June, July and October 2018 and so on 
balance Im inclined  to agree  the credit limit reduction, which happened at around the same  
time was based on a number of factors and not just the issue,  which  occurred in October.  
From what  Ive seen, whilst acknowledging some of the timing  may have been unfortunate, 
SDFCL have complied  with the terms and conditions of the account. They  have recognised 
they could have given better customer service and made a £30 goodwill gesture in 
recognition of this. Im persuaded they have  acted fairly and reasonably  and so Im not going 
to ask them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN16173753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1617375