K821x#15complaint
Ms B says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Ferratum provided to Ms B in June 2018. The 
loan was for £700 and was to be repaid in three monthly instalments with the highest being 
£355.07. Ms B struggled to repay the loan and Ferratum waived an amount to close the 
loan. When Ms B complained that the loan had been  unaffordable for her, Ferratum offered 
her £104  as a gesture of goodwill. But Ms B was unhappy  with this and so Ferratum 
withdrew its offer.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Bs complaint  and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given. 
Ferratum disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN10451412Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Ferratum asked Ms B for information  about her income and it carried out credit checks. Ms B 
said her monthly income was £1,251.  Given the size of the maximum monthly repayment 
required and Ms Bs income,  I think Ferratum should also have asked Ms B about her 
monthly outgoings for her normal living expenses and her regular and short-term  financial 
commitments to check that she could afford to meet her repayments.  
As our adjudicator explained, sufficient and proportionate checks would most likely  have  
shown that Ms B was having  problems  managing  her money. This is because these checks  
would have found that Ms B had at least three other  short-term loans outstanding when she 
asked for Ferratums loan.  So I think if Ferratum  had made  enough checks it would have  
realised that Ms B would be unable to sustainably  repay this loan or any subsequent loans. 
And so I think it was wrong  to provide it. 
putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms B paid on her loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Ms Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest.  Ferratum  
must give Ms B a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint.  I require  
Ferratum UK Ltd to pay Ms B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1045141