K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt pursue the chargeback  claim he 
raised about a dispute he had over a chipped windscreen with a car hire company. 
background
In April 2018 Mr B took delivery of a hire car. When he collected  the car Mr B says the 
company hadnt  signed the envelope he was given with the keys inside to say the vehicle 
had passed for rental   and he says it had overstated the amount of petrol in the car. 
However, Mr B signed the relevant agreement forms for the car. Mr B says when he returned 
the car it was noted that there was chip in the windscreen and subsequently the firm took the 
cost of repair  €404   from his credit card. But he says he didnt cause the damage so he 
contacted Santander to make a chargeback claim.
Santander asked  Mr B for some more information  in support of his claim and when Mr B 
returned the form Santander credited Mr Bs account with the sum involved and said it would 
complete an investigation  which could  take up to 45 days.  On 6 June 2018 Santander 
wrote to Mr B as it had received a reply from the car hire firm. It asked Mr B to supply any 
further evidence  that he might  have about the incident.
Mr B then contacted Santander in July 2018 to ask why matters  hadnt been resolved. 
Santander told Mr B it hadnt  received his paperwork  although it had. When this was 
confirmed Santander  made a goodwill  payment of £50 for its error. Santander also confirmed 
it had asked the hire firm to answer  the further points Mr B had raised.  
But, following  further communication Santander  decided that Mr Bs claim was unlikely to be 
successful so it didnt  pursue  it and took the funds back from his account.  Mr B was unhappy 
with that outcome so he brought his complaint here, where one of our investigators looked 
into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said that Santander had instigated  a chargeback claim but when the merchant defended 
it Santander decided  to not to pursue things any further. He didnt think  it was unreasonable  
for Santander not to pursue the claim  based  on the evidence it had been provided  with  
and also thought it was fair for Santander  to suggest Mr B made a claim on his insurance 
policy.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed now been  paid out by the insurance company so he just 
wanted the car hire firm to admit the damage had already been done to the windscreen  
when he got the vehicle  and that it should  have been recorded as such. He wants  to clear  
his name so he asked  for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  and its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mr B feels about  
this situation and that he wants  to demonstrate  that he didnt  cause the damage to the car. 
And I have  some sympathy  for his position  in this case. But what  Im considering  here is 
whether Santander  acted  fairly in not pursuing  Mr Bs chargeback claim. And I think  it did act 
fairly, which I know isnt the outcome Mr B wanted  to hear, so Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN10902932Chargeback is a process which  allows  customers  to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there is a problem with goods or services  theyve paid for. There is no automatic right to a 
chargeback. But we consider it is good practice  for a financial business to consider carrying  
out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this.  A  chargeback is decided  based  on the 
card schemes rules,  not the relative  merits of a consumers dispute against  a merchant.
So in order to uphold  Mr Bs complaint I have to be satisfied  on balance  that if the 
chargeback had gone ahead it would have succeeded. Ive very carefully considered the 
evidence that Mr B and the car hire firm provided to establish what happened.  And I can see 
that Mr B signed initially to say there  was no damage to the car when he took it away but 
that damage was noticed when he returned  the car and he signed to acknowledge that. 
Although I note he stated  that he hadnt  caused  the damage. 
But this isnt a complaint  between Mr B and the car hire firm about who caused  the damage, 
this is a question  of whether the information  that the firm provided to Santander showed that 
a chargeback claim would  be likely to fail and whether Santander then acted correctly in not 
pursuing the matter.
I think the evidence  that the car hire company provided was sufficient for Santander not to 
pursue the claim. Ive seen a picture  of the damage  caused, Mr Bs signature on the damage 
report forms from when the car was hired  and returned, and a copy of the rental agreement  
which Mr B signed and confirmed that all charges including damages may be billed  to the 
credit card and my signature below will be considered  to have been made on the applicable 
credit card voucher, and a copy of the invoice for the repair work that was carried out. 
Based on that information, I think its more likely than not, that any chargeback claim would 
have been unsuccessful and I think it was reasonable for Santander to take that approach.
I know Mr B has provided evidence to show that the firm didnt sign the envelope  it gave him 
to confirm the vehicle had been  inspected and checked before he took it over. And hes 
pointed to an error with the amount of fuel the firm said was in the car as evidence  that it 
hadnt been checked. But the evidence the firm provided to Santander doesnt support  
Mr Bs view of things.  Instead it shows that a claim would most likely have been 
unsuccessful. 
I cant be sure when  the damage to the windscreen  was done, and I know  Mr B has claimed 
it wasnt done when  he had the car. But Ive seen how he did sign to say the car was 
undamaged when he took it over and that he signed again to acknowledge there  was 
damage to the windscreen when the car was returned. In those circumstances I think its 
difficult to argue that Santander would have been  able to successfully pursue a chargeback 
claim for the cost of the repair.
I note that Santander  when it said it wouldnt pursue the claim, advised Mr B to contact the 
insurance company  involved. And I was pleased to learn that Mr B has been able to recover  
(some of) his costs  through  his insurance  policy.  
And Ive also seen that Santander paid Mr B £50 for the inconvenience  it might have caused 
by advising him on one occasion   incorrectly  that it didnt have his paperwork.  In the 
circumstances I think that was a fair and reasonable payment to have made for the impact it 
had on Mr B. So Im not going to tell Santander to do anything further.
Ref: DRN10902933my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1090293