K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Gavin Tansey Financial Services  
Limited. He wants GTFS to pay him financial compensation  for the loss of capital 
appreciation within his pension fund.
background
Mr S met GTFSs adviser to discuss his pension funds in November 2015  before Mr S went 
abroad for 4 months. 
GTFS says that, following  that meeting, it got in touch with Mr Ss pension  provider  to 
request information.  This was received in November 2015.  But, due to workload, the adviser 
was unable to complete  its review before Christmas  2015. And, in January 2016 the adviser 
had a personal emergency. This meant he was away from the office throughout  January  
2016.
Mr S contacted GTFS in April 2016, following  his return to the UK. The adviser apologised 
for the delay  and agreed to write with his current recommendations for Mr Ss funds. But 
Mr S says he didnt receive  a written report from the adviser. Instead, he says that the 
adviser telephoned him a few weeks later, prior to the Brexit  vote,  and recommended  that 
Mr S should  move his funds into cash. Mr S agreed to this course  of action.
Following the outcome  of Brexit, Mr S contacted  GTFS again in August  2016 and asked 
what had happened  to his funds. The adviser  said that he had been taking a cautious 
approach not to invest until the markets became clearer.
Mr S got back in touch  with GTFS in May 2017.  He complained that GTFS had been taking 
fund based commission  payments. GTFS  agreed to reimburse these payments. But the 
adviser again said that he was taking a cautious  approach, and still felt that Mr S should 
remain in cash.
Following further exchanges  of emails  and a meeting  with Mr S GTFS issued a final 
response letter. It didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said,  in summary, that transferring to 
cash prior to the referendum and advising to maintain  this position until markets became less 
volatile was the right advice. It was in line with Mr Ss risk profile and provided him with 
valuable security at an uncertain time.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and said:
He agreed that GTFS hadnt provided Mr S with advice in time for his return  from his 
travels in April 2016. And, although  he understood some of the reasons  for this delay, 
he felt that GFTS could have handled things better;
But even  if the report had been completed by April 2016 he didnt think this would 
have made a difference. This was because GTFS wouldnt have been  able to do 
anything until Mr S returned. And when Mr S did return the markets  were volatile 
because of Brexit.  So he felt it likely that GFTS would have taken the same approach 
and recommended putting the funds into cash.
In relation to the funds remaining in cash after the Brexit vote, his understanding  was 
that there was still a lot of uncertainty at the time. GTFS  had monitored the markets 
but felt it was safest to leave the funds as cash. This was in line with Mr Ss risk 
profile and previous  investment history.
Ref: DRN10295462GTFS had told Mr S about this when  he contacted the adviser  in August 2016. He 
hadnt seen any evidence that Mr S questioned  the fund allocation  between August 
2016 and May 2017. And he didnt  think it was unreasonable for GTFSs adviser to 
think Mr S was happy with the decision.
He did think that GTFS could have updated  Mr S with its market research and 
decision to take a cautious approach. GTFS had also agreed it could have 
communicated better.  But he didnt think this would have made a difference,  because  
the advisers recommendation would have  been  to stay in cash.
The investigator had also seen that Mr S didnt decide to move the funds from GTFS 
until 2018. He felt that if Mr S had been concerned about how GTFS was handling 
his pension funds  then he should  have  taken action sooner to mitigate his loss.
Although he didnt think that GTFSs decision not to invest the pension  fund into 
equities was unreasonable, he did think it could have provided  a better service. He 
noted that GTFS had reimbursed the commission it had received, and he felt that this 
was reasonable.  And he also felt that GTFS should pay Mr S £200 for the trouble and 
upset he had been caused.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators  view. He said in particular that he had given GTFS 
authority to invest his pension funds prior to his departure abroad and so was not expecting 
a report, only confirmation  of the investments made.  But our investigator wasnt persuaded 
to change his view, so Mr Ss complaint  has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I realise that this will come 
as a disappointment  to Mr S, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr S has set out his account of events in considerable  detail. I hope he wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way I have. Ours is an informal  dispute  
resolution service. Although Ive considered everything that Mr S has to say, Ive 
concentrated my decision on this issues I find to be central to his complaint. 
Mr S says that he discussed  fund changes with GTFS prior to the meeting of November 
2015. And he says that the purpose  of the meeting was simply to finalise the necessary 
paperwork, authorising GTFS to proceed  immediately to reinvest  his pension funds as had 
been agreed. But GTFS says that Mr Ss instruction  was to review his current  investment 
while he was out of the country. 
Ive carefully considered  the available evidence and arguments. Having done  so, Im not 
persuaded that GTFS agreed to proceed  to reinvest  Mr Ss pension  funds while  he was out 
of the country.  In reaching this decision  I take account of the fact that usual procedure would 
be for an adviser to confirm advice of this sort in writing before proceeding. Ive not seen any 
evidence of the recommendations Mr S says were discussed prior to November 2015. And 
Ive seen that GTFS did approach the pension provider for further information after that 
meeting. So, although  I dont doubt  Mr Ss sincerity,  my view is that the advisers intention 
was to issue formal  written recommendations for Mr Ss return.
In the event, GTFS didnt produce a report for Mr S. It has explained that this was, at least in 
part, due to personal issues. I agree with our investigator that, despite  those  personal  
issues, GTFS could have  handled this better. But I also agree  that, even if the report had 
Ref: DRN10295463been completed it is likely that GTFS would have  recommended Mr S to put his funds into 
cash on his return,  due to the market volatility around the time of the Brexit  referendum. 
Mr S has also complained that his funds were left in cash for an extended  period,  although  
the move  was only meant to be temporary. But I can see that GTFS did make Mr S aware of 
its position on cash when  he contacted  it in August  2016. And, although  I agree  with our 
investigator that GTFS could have contacted Mr S again to update  him, Im persuaded that 
Mr S was aware that his funds were  in cash and that he had the opportunity  to raise further 
concerns at the time if he had wished  to do so.
Mr S complained to GTFS about the commission it had received from his funds. And GTFS 
agreed to refund that commission. Im persuaded that this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, given the service  that Mr S experienced. And I also agree 
with our investigator that GTFS  should pay Mr S a further £200  in recognition of his trouble 
and upset. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Gavin Tansey Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029546