K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited managed a claim he made  on his travel
insurance policy. All references to UKI include  its claims handlers.
background
In 2018 Mr J was on holiday in Canada and injured  his leg skiing. He was hospitalised and
underwent surgery  for his injury. During  this time,  he was in contact  with UKI who agreed  to 
cover various costs associated with the treatment hed received under the policy,  including 
hospital and ambulance fees. It also agreed to assist him with his travel back  to the UK; 
once it was determined  he was fit to fly.
Mr J is unhappy with the way UKI managed his claim. This includes:
failing  to respond to emails he sent UKI in early March 2018;
not updating him as to when he was likely  to be repatriated, and unnecessarily
delaying his return to the UK;
failing  to arrange for an appropriate wheelchair  to be available  for him at the airport  in
Canada and on his return to the UK;
arranging for an unsuitable car to collect him from the airport in the UK to transport
him home; and
not paying the medical invoices promptly and telling him theyd been settled, when
they hadnt been.
UKI accepts  that, due to an administrative error,  it didnt respond to emails  Mr J had sent in 
early March 2018. It also accepts it couldve kept him better updated during that time. UKI 
apologised and offered Mr J £100 in compensation. However, it didnt uphold his other  
concerns. Mr J didnt think that was fair.
Ultimately our investigator upheld one aspect of Mr Js complaint; she said UKI shouldve
done more to notify the airline flying Mr J home that he needed to have a wheelchair which  
enabled his leg to be elevated. If it had done  this, she felt that a suitable wheelchair wouldve
been made available for Mr J at both airports. As it didnt do this, she recommended  UKI pay
Mr J £250 to reflect the trouble and upset this caused him.
Neither UKI nor Mr J agreed with the outcome. So the complaint was passed to me to
look at everything afresh. I issued  my provisional  decision  in July 2019 setting out my 
reasons why I was intending to agree with the reasons why our investigator had 
recommended UKI to pay Mr J a further  £250  in compensation. I also explained why I was 
intending to ask it to pay a further  £200 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused  by it 
not updating Mr J and giving him incorrect information about settling his medical invoices. 
UKI replied saying that when requesting wheelchair  assistance from any airline, only three 
types of wheelchair  assistance can be requested. None of these include an option to request 
a particular type of chair  with leg extenders. As such, this wasnt  something UKI could ask 
the airline to have available for Mr J at both airports.
In light of this information  our investigator  contacted the UK airport and airline Mr J travelled 
home with. They both confirmed that only a standard  wheelchair  could be made available   
not one which allowed  for leg elevation. So our investigator notified  UKI and Mr J that 
Ref: DRN18477892because of this, I proposed to find that UKI hadnt done anything wrong by not requesting 
the airline make available a wheelchair that enabled  Mr Js leg to be elevated. 
Mr J replied explaining  why he was unhappy  that this information  had only been provided  
recently when his complaint had been ongoing for over a year.  He was also unhappy  with a 
number of other points  including  that UKI hadnt  provided him with medically suitable 
transportation home from the UK airport and that hed been  forced  to sit in pain in the 
backseat of the car, unable to wear  a seatbelt.  He also reiterated that he was being chased  
for large  sums of money by the medical provider in Canada  despite UKIs assurance that this 
had been paid. Mr J also said UKI didnt respond within certain  deadlines when dealing with 
his complaint or providing him with information  hed requested.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold it, in part.
failing to respond to emails, not providing updates  whilst in hospital  and unnecessarily
delaying Mr Js return to the UK
UKI accepts  it didnt respond to emails Mr J sent on 2 and 3 March  2018, which led him to
send a third email on 4 March. In those emails Mr J told UKI that hed been advised he
would be discharged from hospital  on 5 March and that the doctor would be providing a fit to
fly certificate. He asked UKI to arrange flights home for him and his wife.
Mr J says if UKI had logged and actioned his email of 2 March,  UKI wouldve been able to
arrange for him to fly home sooner.  This wouldve prevented him from having to remain in
hospital for longer than was needed  and then having  to check into a hotel for two nights. But
Im not persuaded that he wouldve returned home  any sooner given the medical evidence 
available from the time.
Although UKI didnt  respond to two of Mr Js emails, I can see that it was trying to engage
with the hospital to get an update on his health and when  he was likely  to be fit to fly. The
hospital issued  a medical report on 2 March 2018  and it was reported to UKI that Mr J wasnt
out of bed, was in very bad pain and dizzy when attempting to mobilise.  Based on that
information UKI deemed that Mr J wasnt fit to fly yet but it would review on 5 March 2018.  If
UKI had considered Mr Js email  of 2 March 2018 promptly after it had been sent, its most
likely it wouldve gone back to the hospital  to clarify  when Mr J was likely to be fit to fly. Of
course, I cant  know for sure, but based  on Mr Js health at the time, I think its unlikely UKI
wouldve gone ahead and booked the return flights for Mr J and his wife at that stage.
Ordinarily I wouldnt expect it to do that until the hospital had issued a fit to fly certificate.
Theres a medical report  from the hospital which was typed on 6 March 2018 saying that it
anticipates Mr J will be discharged on 7 March  and a fit to fly certificate  had been  completed.
And it was around  the same date of the report that UKI proactively looked into booking
Mr and Mrs Js flights home. It was advised that the next available  business class seats were
on a flight due to depart on 9 July 2018 and it appears they were the seats which  were
ultimately booked.
UKI accepts  that it couldve provided updates to Mr J around that time - particularly from
Ref: DRN184778934 to 6 March. Im conscious that Mr J was recovering from an operation  and it was likely to
have been an anxious time for him. I can also understand  why he was keen to get home.  I
accept that UKIs lack of updates is likely  to have exacerbated  the worry he was feeling at
the time,  considering that hed sent three emails to UKI before  he received a reply.
UKI has apologised and offered Mr J £100  compensation.  I think that fairly reflects  the
additional trouble he went to by sending two additional emails  and the additional worry he
experienced by not being updated when he shouldve.
the wheelchairs made available at both airports and the car used to collect Mr J
UKI did inform the airline that Mr J required a wheelchair. But theres nothing to indicate the
airline were specifically told that he would require a wheelchair which enabled  his leg to be
elevated. However,  based on the information received since issuing my provisional  decision 
from the airline who flew Mr and Mrs J home and the UK airport,  Im satisfied that even if UKI 
had requested a wheelchair which enabled  Mr Js leg to be elevated  to be made  available,  
its unlikely that it wouldve  been. So although  Mr J may have been told by airport  staff that if 
theyd known he needed that type of chair  in advance, it wouldve been  able to source one 
for him to use  Im now persuaded that this wouldnt have happened.  
Further, Im satisfied UKI did arrange for a suitable car to pick Mr and Mrs J up from the 
airport after theyd arrived back in the UK. UKIs internal notes  reflect it did request
Mr J to be collected by a car which enabled his leg to be elevated during the journey home 
and it received confirmation from the car company that a leg elevation vehicle had been
booked.
Mr J says the car only had five seats  - which  was unsuitable. And that he had to lay on the
back of the car seat sideways for the duration  of the journey. He also says the airport car
park CCTV  footage and / or car park ticket would show  the car company isnt telling the
truth. However, based on everything  I have, I think its most likely UKI did arrange for him to 
be collected in a suitable car. The car company  has provided UKI with an invoice identifying 
the name of the driver who collected  Mr and Mrs J from the airport  together with his transport 
for London documentation.  It shows that the car he was licenced to use had seven seats. 
And looking at the make  of car, Im satisfied Mr J wouldve been able to travel with his leg
elevated. 
settlement of the hospital fees
The relevant  rules and regulations say claims should be handled  promptly and fairly and
reasonable guidance should be given to help a policyholder make a claim,  and appropriate
information on its progress. I dont think UKI did this when looking to settle the medical
expenses.
Mr J received invoices shortly after returning back to the UK. He contacted UKI about this
and was informed  in June 2018  that the invoices had been sent to its agents  to address but
they were due to be paid the following week. Mr J was then told in an email  dated July 2018
that the invoices had been paid. However, that wasnt  right. It appears that some of the
invoices remained outstanding as Mr J continued to receive payment chasers from the
medical provider  in the sum of around  95 thousand Canadian dollars,  which it said was
outstanding.
It wasnt until our investigator raised  this issue with UKI that it confirmed, in November 2018,
Ref: DRN18477894that the outstanding amount was still being  settled  through its agents and that this was a
lengthy process. I can understand why Mr J was frustrated that the earlier information hed
received contradicted this and that he hadnt  been  kept updated, as he shouldve.  It was only
after Mr J received a further  chaser from the medical  provider  and further enquires were
made with UKI in February 2019,  that UKI confirmed its agents  had reached an agreement
with the medical  provider  to settle the invoice for a lower figure.
So I direct UKI to pay Mr J £200 as I think this caused him a moderate amount of
distress and frustration, which wouldve been exacerbated by the other things it had done
wrong when handling his claim, in early  March 2018.  He was also put to the additional 
trouble of trying to get updates from UKI as to the reason why he was still receiving invoices 
from the medical provider,  when  he had been told the invoices had been settled. When 
provisionally making this finding, I note that Mr J did receive another chaser from the medical 
provider in March  2019. But it looks like this was an error, given  a settlement figure had been  
agreed between  it and UKI by that time.
Mr J is also unhappy that UKI missed  certain deadlines when dealing with his complaint. 
Complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity and, as such, I dont have the power to look into 
that particular  aspect of his complaint.  
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Js complaint, and direct  U K Insurance  Limited to put
things right by paying Mr J £300,  in total, for trouble and upset. It can deduct,  from this, the
sum of £100   that being the amount its offered to pay Mr J - if its already paid this to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1847789