K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Allianz Insurance Plc charging him an additional  premium  for his 
car insurance policy.
Reference to Allianz includes  their agents.
background
In January 2018, Mr L took out car insurance  with Allianz. He took out his policy  online.  
Allianz said one of the questions Mr L was asked during the application was:
"Give us details  of any incidents, accidents or claims involving a vehicle that you've had in 
the last five years. Please include all incidents,  including where you weren't deemed to be at 
fault, where you were  driving a different vehicle, and incidents  that haven't  yet been settled."
Mr L didnt declare an incident that happened during the past five years where his car was 
hit while  it was parked.  The incident wasnt his fault and he didnt claim for it, but he did 
notify his then insurer.
Shortly after Mr L took out the policy, Allianz  found out about  the past incident. They said 
that Mr L should have declared that incident and, had he done  so, they would have charged 
him £88.05  more for the policy. Allianz  asked  Mr L for an additional premium of £88.05 which 
Mr L paid.
Mr L complained, he said the accident  wasnt his fault and he didnt even  claim for it so he 
shouldnt be penalised.  Allianz didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr L didn't think that was fair so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that the question  asked was clear  and Mr L should have 
declared the past incident. But our adjudicator didnt think  it was fair for Allianz  to charge 
Mr L an additional premium. Our adjudicator suggested that Allianz should pay Mr L £50 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he experienced.
As Allianz  didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 11 June 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
charging the additional premium
Allianz have suggested that what Mr L did by not disclosing the previous incident 
amounted to, what is known in the insurance  industry as, a careless 
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers 
may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
Ref: DRN10818132 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate 
basis (or apply other exclusions or limitations it would otherwise have 
applied). But if the consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel 
the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them paying the 
additional premium  for the insurer to then settle  any claim in full instead of settling the 
claim proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the 
policyholder theres  a problem and give them the option of paying the additional 
premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they 
want to take out insurance later on.
Under CIDRA, Mr L had a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. To assess  whether  or not Mr L took reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation  I have to look to see if Allianzs  question was clear.  Ive 
reproduced the question above and I think it was clear enough for Mr L to have  
declared the incident he reported to his past insurer. Mr L has told us that his 
previous insurer said he didnt have to disclose  it when  taking  out insurance in the 
future. But he was asked  the question by Allianz  so he should  have declared it. So I 
feel Mr L did make, whats referred to in CIDRA  as, a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
That would mean that Allianz  only had available to them  the remedies under CIDRA. 
And as imposing an additional premium isnt one of those remedies, Allianz shouldnt 
have asked Mr L to pay £88.05, without  otherwise giving him the option of cancelling  
his policy  without penalty. As Allianz didn't do that, and Mr Ls policy has since  
lapsed they can't give Mr L that option  now. I therefore intend to require Allianz  to 
refund that amount to Mr L together with simple interest at 8% a year from the date 
he paid it until the refund is made.
Our service asked Allianz to provide details showing how they calculated the £88.05 
additional premium.  That information is commercially sensitive so I cant share it with 
Mr L. I know its frustrating for Mr L, but insurers dont disclose details  of how they 
calculate premiums because it might give their competitors a commercial  advantage. 
But we look to see if calculations are made  in a fair way and that insurers  treat 
customers in similar circumstances  the same. Ive looked  at Allianzs calculation and 
it appears that they have calculated the additional  premium on the basis  of the past 
incident being a non-fault  claim. But it wasnt a non-fault claim,  it was an incident  that 
Mr L told his then insurer. That type of incident is usually recorded by the insurance  
industry as being  notification only. So, on the basis of the information  I have  seen, I 
cant say the additional  premium was calculated fairly. In any event,  even if it was, 
Allianz shouldnt  have asked Mr L to pay it.
Finally, Mr L has said the past incident was recorded on the insurance database and 
he wants it removed. The insurance  database  is used by the insurance  industry  to 
record various details  about policyholders, such as past accidents/claims. And most 
insurers have access to that database to get details about their policyholders,  as 
Allianz did so in this case by finding  out about  the past incident. But that incident was 
Ref: DRN10818133recorded on the database by Mr Ls past insurer, not by Allianz, so its not something 
I can ask Allianz to do.
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold this complaint  in part. I understand 
this incident has been a source of distress  and inconvenience for Mr L, so I intend to 
require Allianz  to pay him £100 compensation to address  that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Allianz didnt comment.  Mr L said he 
didnt have anything  further to add.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to:
Refund Mr L £88.05 together with simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date he 
paid it until the refund is made.1 
Pay Mr L £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr L has accepted  my final decision. 
If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If Allianz consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr L how much they have taken  off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1081813