K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Bank of Scotland plc (Trading  as Halifax) (Halifax) and difficulties he 
experienced in making payment to his credit  card account. He is unhappy that Halifax ended  
his promotional rate of interest when he exceeded  his account limit. He wants  the interest  he 
was charged to be refunded to him. 
background
Mr H holds a Halifax credit card,  and has his current accounts with other banks. 
When Mr H got the Halifax Credit Card it had a promotional rate of 0% interest  until 
December 2018.  
From 2017,  Mr H used his card consistently  throughout  each  month, and frequently  made 
more than one payment  into the account  each month to reduce the balance.  
In November 2017, Mr H exceeded his credit  limit. He paid money  into the account shortly 
after this and an over limit charge was added to his account. 
Halifax cancelled his 0% interest rate and began  applying  its standard  rate of interest to his 
balance. 
Mr H made  a payment  to his account in late November  2017, but continued  to spend on the 
card so his balance increased.  He exceeded his limit again in late December 2017. 
Mr H brought his account back within  the account  limits  in January 2018 and contacted 
Halifax. Halifax refunded  the interest that had been charged in November  and December 
and reinstated  his promotional rate. 
In early 2018, Mr H exceeded  his credit limit again and Halifax again cancelled his 
promotional interest  rate. It then applied interest  at its standard rate to the card balance.  
Mr H complained to Halifax. He said that the different payment system had made  it difficult  
for him to make payments  into his account  and this had caused  him to exceed  the limit. 
He also said that he had had to make  payments by phone, and had experienced long waits 
to do so. 
Halifax sent him its final response in July 2018. It said that it did not accept that there was a 
failing from Halifax in respect of the payment system, but that it accepted that he had 
experienced long calls.  It offered him £20 for the cost of his calls and a further £50 for his 
distress and inconvenience. It also offered to reinstate the 0% interest  until December 2018, 
but declined to refund further  interest that had been charged.  
Mr H was not happy with this and contacted  us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked at this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that Halifax  had acted reasonably and she did not recommend it do anything  further.  
Mr H did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN12235192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  considered Mr Hs credit  card statements, which were sent to him 
monthly. 
These contain details  of the ways to pay, and when  payment was due. The statements also 
make clear  that you will lose any promotional offers if your minimum payment is late or if 
you go over your credit limit. The standard rate will then apply. 
From the statements it appears that Mr H used his credit card as his main payment method 
and used it frequently for small and larger  payments. 
He made  regular payments into the account,  including having a direct debit in place at times  
to ensure he made the minimum payment. 
Since, however,  Mr H used the card up to his credit limit it was incumbent upon  him to make 
sure that he stayed within the account limits. 
I appreciate that Mr H experienced difficulties making payment on occasion, but this does 
not seem  to have deterred Mr H from using his credit card to make  payments. This naturally 
increased his balance.
The statements  made clear the account  terms that the promotional  offer was only available 
so long as Mr H kept to the terms of the card. It was Mr Hs responsibility to make  sure that 
he made payment,  by one of the methods detailed, and that he did not spend  more on the 
card than his credit  limit would allow. 
Halifax was entitled  to end the promotional rate when Mr H breached  the card terms, and 
was entitled to apply its standard rate, as it did. I do not criticise Halifax  for declining to 
refund interest  that was charged in line with its terms and conditions.  
I do not think it was necessary for Halifax to specifically draw  Mr Hs attention to the decision 
to cancel the promotional rate, as this was evident  from his statements. 
I agree  that Mr H experienced poor customer service in having  long call waits and it being 
difficult to make his payments by telephone, but I think  that Halifax has made a reasonable 
offer of compensation to reflect this. 
As a result, whilst I realise that this will be frustrating  for Mr H, I do not uphold  his complaint 
and do not ask Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything further in respect  of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  and do not ask Bank of 
Scotland Plc to do anything further
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Ref: DRN12235193Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1223519