K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy  about the 
valuation of his car following a claim  on his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr C made  a claim on his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. Admiral 
decided his car was a write-off and offered Mr C the market value of the car. 
But Mr C wasnt  able to buy a similar  car, with similar mileage and extras  and with the timing  
belt changed, for that amount. He could only find similar cars advertised for about £500 more  
than the amount he was offered so he complained to Admiral  and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at all 
the motor valuation guides and concluded  that Admirals  offer was reasonable. 
But Mr C didnt agree,  as he thought that his car was worth  more, so the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurance companies I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide  whether or not the valuation  is fair in all the circumstances. 
As outlined  by the adjudicator this service pays particular attention to the various trade 
guides used for valuing  cars, as well as other evidence  provided by both sides.
This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar cars; although I place less 
weight on advertisements  than on the trade guides. This is because  cars dont generally sell 
for the price at which  they are advertised. The condition  of the car at the time the damage 
occurred is also an important factor to consider.  I will only tell a business to increase  its 
valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Mr C has said that he has been  unable to find a similar car for the price  
Admiral has offered. And he says that he has just paid for a change of timing belt and that 
the car was in excellent condition which I dont doubt.
But the guides have provided  values for his particular make and model of car in good 
condition with similar specification. Valuing cars is far from an exact science and generally 
day to day maintenance  of cars (such  as the replacement of timing belts)  doesnt directly 
affect the overall market value of a car. And it should be noted that not all additional  extras 
add value to a car once it is a few years  old.
I know Mr C feels  that the guides  have provided  a trade value  for his car. But I can assure 
him that they have provided a market value for a similar car bought at a reputable dealer. As 
such, I dont think  that Admiral has acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN13262972I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but, having considered  the valuations  
arrived at from all the guides, Im satisfied  that the valuation  seems fair.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1326297