K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2003. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss H says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss Hs card account started in 1999.  But the PPI started only in 2003. Where  PPI is sold 
for an account after it started, the sale is often a phone sale.  FICL thinks the sale in this case 
was a phone  sale.
FICL hasnt  been  able to give us a call recording.  But this isnt surprising,  given how long 
ago the PPI started. So the fact FICL cant provide  a recording isnt in my view a reason to 
think the sale wasnt made by phone. Nor is it a reason to think that something was wrong 
with the sale at the time.
From what  we know of how FICL  sold PPI by phone, I think if the PPI was sold to Miss H by 
phone its likely FICL made it clear that the PPI was optional. And I dont think FICL  wouldve 
added cover without  getting Miss Hs agreement to it first. In any case, regardless of whether 
the sale was conducted by phone  or not, the account was in force  when the PPI started. So, 
as Miss H already had the card, its likely to have been clear at the sale that the cover was 
something separate from the card and something Miss H didnt have  to take to get the card.
Miss H has no recollection of taking the cover. She says shed never  take insurance out by 
phone and she says she doesnt accept any phone calls about taking insurance. So she 
feels that the insurance was mis-sold  and she never  accepted  or agreed to it.
Ive taken all this into account. But buying  card insurance is often not very memorable. And 
Ive taken into account that the PPI was added well over a decade  ago. So if it was added 
during a phone  call, I wouldnt  expect  Miss H to have a vivid or detailed recollection  of it now. 
With this in mind, what Miss H has said isnt enough  on its own to make me think FICL 
added PPI to her account without asking or telling her. And I havent seen anything else to 
make me think FICL did that.
Taking all this into account, what I have isnt enough  to make me think Miss H didnt agree to 
the PPI or that FICL didnt give her a choice  about  it. But I acknowledge that this isnt what 
Miss H believes.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for Miss H. But it 
did have to make sure Miss H got the information she needed to decide whether the PPI was 
right for her. 
Ref: DRN19407012Its possible the information FICL gave Miss H wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But from what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, Miss H wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the cover, so she couldve claimed on it if the circumstances 
arose. And from what shes told us, Miss Hs sick pay wouldve reduced to statutory pay after 
twelve weeks. And she cant remember what savings she had to help her at the time. Shes 
said her husband  was working  and had sick pay, but other peoples circumstances and 
ability to help can change. Taking  everything into account, on balance  I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put Miss H off taking it.
Ive taken into account all Miss Hs points, including what shes  said about having long term 
five or ten year savings plans in place.  But the PPI made it less likely  Miss H would have to 
cash in these plans  to help with her card payments if she lost her job or was too sick to work.  
So, with all Ive said above in mind and for the reasons Ive given, these points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1940701