K820x#14Complaint
Mr K has complained that Skrill  Limited  refused to refund a transaction,  which  he didnt 
make, and closed  his account.
Background
Mr K said someone transferred 7043.38  USD from his Skrill account to a third party account 
which he didnt recognise. 
He raised a fraud complaint  with Skrill Ltd. He told it that his Gmail  account had been hacked 
into and that he had stored his Skrill password in his browser. He believed  this was how the 
third party gained access to his Skrill account.
He asked Skrill Ltd to stop the payment and refund the money.
Skrill Ltd tried to reverse the transaction but the third party had already withdrawn the 
money. 
Subsequently, it investigated his fraud complaint  but decided not to refund him. It said the 
third party had logged  on to his Skrill account  using his login details, including his password. 
There were no unsuccessful  attempts  at the login,  which suggested the person already knew  
his login details.  
Also, the third party  logged on from a different device and IP address.  As its security system 
didnt recognise  the device  or IP address, Skrill Ltd asked for further details. The third party  
was able to confirm Mr Ks bank  account details, which  had been  registered to his Skrill 
account since 2018.
It concluded that as Mr K had acted in breach of the terms and conditions of his account by 
storing his Skrill password  in his browser, he wasnt entitled to a refund.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with this outcome and so he asked this service  to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt uphold.  He felt unable  to conclude  
that the transfer was made  fraudulently and was persuaded it was most  likely made and 
authorised by Mr K. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view. Hes asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts,  the transactions, the relevant regulations and the evidence  are set out in the 
investigators view. Both Mr K and Skrill Ltd have read the investigators view,  so I wont 
repeat every  detail  here, only those which form the basis of my decision.  However,  I can 
assure both that Ive read the file, including their comments  and evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN12449112In short,  Skrill Ltd is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). But the bank  can hold Mr K liable for any disputed transaction  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
So, my primary  concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think Mr K authorised  the 
payment. And a payment  out of someones  account can only be treated as authorised  if the 
payer has consented to it. 
Im not convinced that Mr K did consent  to the transfer. Ive seen text alerts,  which were sent 
to this mobile phone, warning him that his Gmail  account details had been  changed. So, Im 
persuaded that his account  was hacked. 
We asked Mr K whether  he had noticed  anything suspicious before his account  was hacked 
into, for example whether he had received and responded  to any phishing  emails. He hasnt 
responded. But I note he did respond  immediately when he received a text message from 
Skrill Ltd about the transaction. 
For these reasons, I dont  consider that Mr K authorised the disputed transaction.
However, Im afraid the relevant regulations also say Skrill Ltd doesnt  have  to refund the 
disputed transactions  if Mr K intentionally  did something,  which he shouldnt  do under the 
terms and conditions. In this case, the terms and conditions for his account  say:
6 5. You must take reasonable  care to ensure that your e-mail accounts  are secure 
and only accessed  by you, as your e-mail address may be used to reset  passwords or 
to communicate  with you about the security of your Skrill Account.
6 6. Irrespective of whether you are using a public, a shared  or your own computer  to 
access your Skrill  Account you must always ensure that your login details are not 
stored by the browser or cached or otherwise recorded. You should never use any 
functionality that allows login details or pass words to be stored by the computer you 
are using.
In this case, Mr Ks Skrill account was accessed from a different device and IP address. 
Theres no evidence the third party gained remote access  to Mr Ks computer but neither has 
he responded to our questions about remote access so I cant  rule out this possibility. 
However, its clear that the third party knew his log in details, password and bank details. 
Mr K told Skrill Ltd that he stored the password  in his browser,  which explains how they 
might have gained  access to his account details. 
I expect Mr K wasnt aware of the terms and conditions. But, Im afraid  when he stored  his 
password in the browser, he acted in breach of the terms and conditions for his account. It 
follows that Skrill Ltd is entitled  to hold him liable for the disputed transaction.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr K, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
Ref: DRN12449113My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1244911