K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC failed to notify her that the bonus rate 
on her savings account was coming to an end. She says that Tesco  should pay her 
additional interest to cover the period between the rate actually ending and when she was 
told it had ended.
 
background
Miss E says she opens  a new savings account with Tesco each year and holds it for 
12 months  as long as the bonus interest rate is in place. Miss E told us shes  done this 
every year since  she first invested with Tesco in 2010. Miss E says:
in October 2018 she telephoned Tesco to confirm details of her current interest  rate 
and the Tesco representative didnt tell her that the interest rate would be reducing 
the following  month because the bonus rate would  expire;
in previous years whenever shes telephoned the bank,  the person she spoke with 
confirmed her current interest rate and advised her of any scheduled rate reductions 
that were due to take place;
in March 2019 she contacted Tesco to enquire  about the interest rate on her savings 
account and was advised of her current rate and told that her bonus rate had come to 
an end in November  2018  some  four months earlier.
Tesco didnt notify her of the rate reduction  as it shouldve done, and had it done so, 
she wouldve upgraded her investment plan at the end of the bonus period.
Tesco should pay her additional bonus  interest  from the time the bonus expired  
November 2018  to when it first told her that the bonus rate had ended  
March 2019.
Tesco rejected  this complaint. It says it told Miss E at the outset that the bonus  rate was only 
valid for one year and this was confirmed in its Welcome Letter. And it says it wrote to her 
before the rate expired to notify her that her bonus period would be ending soon and the 
date from which the new lower rate would take effect. So it says its done what it needed  to 
do as set out in the account  terms and conditions. And it says Miss E wouldve known this 
because shed opened many of these  types  of accounts in previous years.
Tesco also says that when Miss E contacted it in October 2018, it answered all of her 
questions and she didnt  ask about  the bonus  rate or its end date. But it did acknowledge it 
had given Miss E some incorrect information when she telephone in March 2019 and it 
offered her £50 compensation  in recognition of this.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that she thought Tesco had done  enough when it wrote to Miss E advising her that 
her bonus  rate would  be ending in late November 2018. And she was satisfied that the 
Tesco representative had answered all Miss Es questions when she called the bank in 
October 2018. She explained that she thought  Tescos £50 compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and she wouldnt be asking Tesco  to do anything  more.
Miss E disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says when she telephoned  
Tesco to enquire  about her current interest rate; she would expect to have been told about a 
scheduled rate change. And she says she didnt receive the letter that Tesco  says it sent.
Ref: DRN14566812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Miss E that I 
dont think her complaint  should be upheld. I think our adjudicator  set out the position  very 
clearly so theres little I can usefully  add to what she said.
In November 2017, Miss E opened  her savings account and Tesco  sent her a Welcome 
Letter with the account terms and conditions. These confirm that the account benefits from a 
fixed bonus of 0.8%  for 12 months. And they explain that we will write  to you in advance to 
let you know when  your current Bonus Period is coming to an end.
Tesco says it wrote to Miss E in accordance with the terms and conditions and its sent me a 
sample copy of that letter. And it says this is representative of the one that wouldve been 
sent to Miss E. The letter confirms;
the current interest rate;
the date the current rate ends;
the date the bonus rate started; and
the new interest rate and the date from which the new rate takes effect.
Miss E says she didnt  get the letter   and Ive thought very carefully about this. We asked  
Tesco to explain its contact process  and provide confirmation that it wrote  to Miss E. Tesco 
explained that it sends a batch mailing  in bulk to customers who are scheduled to receive 
this type of letter and its provided an audit trail that shows Miss E was sent a letter. I can 
see the records provided by Tesco show it was sent to the right address. And I havent been 
told about any reason  why Miss E might not have  received it (like problems with her post). 
So Im satisfied its more  likely  than not to have  been correctly delivered.
Taking this all this into account,  Im satisfied that Tesco  did what it needed to do when it 
notified Miss E that her bonus rate was ending in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions.
Next, Ive turned my attention to the telephone call in October 2018 when Miss E contacted  
Tesco. In this particular  case, Ive been  fortunate to have been provided  with a full recording 
of the telephone conversation between Miss E and the Tesco  representative. 
This was a relatively  short telephone  conversation; less than five minutes,  and the first part 
of the call was taken up with a discussion about Tesco Clubcard  points. Miss E explains at 
the outset that shes phoning to confirm her interest rate and the amount I have with you. 
But she explains she has a question about her Tesco Clubcard points that she wants to deal 
with first. The Tesco representative explains that enquiries about these needed to be made 
through a different telephone number and she then takes Miss E through security. She then 
asks Miss E how she can help. Miss E asks three  questions about:
the amount  invested;
the current rate on the account;
and she seeks confirmation that if there were ever a rate change  she would be 
written to.
The representative confirms the balance in Miss Es account  and the current  interest  rate 
and she confirms that Tesco writes  to consumers whenever theres  a rate change. So Im 
Ref: DRN14566813satisfied that the Tesco  representative  answered Miss Es questions fully, based on what  
was asked of her.
I can understand Miss Es disappointment  that she didnt learn  of her interest rate reduction  
until March 2019,  but based on the evidence Ive seen and heard, I cant say that this is 
because of anything  Tesco  did, or didnt do.
I know Miss E will be disappointed with my decision,  but I hope  she understand why Ive 
reached the conclusion that I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1456681