K821x#15the complaint
Ms E says TSB Bank Plcs IT problems had an impact on her and meant  she lost money 
when she was trying to make an international payment.  
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB migrated its customers to a new computer system. And it also 
changed some of its international payment processes. There were problems with the IT 
migration which impacted on a range of services  TSB offered its customers. 
In August  2018,  Ms E wanted to make  a large  international  payment from her TSB account  
to an account  she holds overseas. She tried to make the payment online as shed  done  
successfully in the past  but this time the IT problems meant the payment details stored in 
her online account  had been deleted.  
Ms E says she wasnt  sure what information  she needed to use, so she called TSB  and 
her overseas  credit union  several times  to ask what details  she should use for the 
payment. Each said that information  would  have to come from the other bank. She also 
asked TSB to try to find the right payment information  from one of her earlier payments. 
As TSB said it couldnt  give her the details she needed, Ms E eventually made the payment 
using information  she found herself.    
The payment left Ms Es TSB account  on 12 September, but didnt arrive  in her overseas 
account. Ms E contacted  TSB several  times  between 20 September  and 1 November   
initially to trace the payment and then to recall  it. When the payment was returned  to her 
TSB account  the difference  in exchange rates meant it was around  £2,000  less than the 
payment shed sent.  
Ms E referred her complaint to this service  and two adjudicators have considered it. They  
concluded that TSB should refund the £17.50 international  payment fee and pay Ms E £300 
for the trouble and inconvenience caused  by deleting her information. But they didnt agree 
that TSB was responsible for the exchange  rate loss, because it was Ms Es decision to 
make the payment using the information she supplied. 
TSB accepted this recommendation, but Ms E didnt. She said her exchange rate loss 
stemmed from TSB mistakenly deleting her payment information, which meant she was 
forced to guess. She also said shed had to take time off work to call TSB  and that 
worrying about her missing payment had caused  a great deal of stress and impacted her 
personally. So Ms E thought TSB should cover  her exchange rate loss and pay a higher 
amount of compensation for the impact  this had on her.  
As this case  couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I think the recommendation the adjudicators have  already  made  is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint. I know this isnt what Ms E wants, but Ill explain why I think  this. 
Ref: DRN12268452Theres no dispute that TSBs IT problems meant Ms Es payment information was deleted  
from her online account. Clearly that was TSBs  error and I understand it will have caused 
some trouble  and inconvenience to Ms E  particularly as she says she spent time calling 
the overseas credit  union and TSB to try to reconstruct the payment information she needed. 
When TSB moved to its new computer  system  it also made a number of other changes to its 
services  including changing the correspondent bank it used for international payments. 
And that new correspondent bank would in turn have other  intermediary banks it uses  to 
make currency payments to the country  in question here. I think TSB should have been able 
to explain this to Ms E, but from what she says it seems  it didnt.  
Ms E also says shed  asked TSB to try to find the correct information from one of her 
previous payments. I can appreciate why Ms E thought that would solve  the problem and I 
can also see that TSB did look into that possibility. But that would have relied  on the former 
correspondent bank still holding, and being  willing to pass on, information from a payment  
Ms E had made a year earlier. I can understand why TSB felt that wasnt  likely  to be a 
viable, or successful, option. But its not clear whether TSB clearly explained that to Ms E, so 
again I can appreciate her frustration. 
Overall, then, this part of the service TSB provided to Ms E was poor  and so I do think TSB 
should provide  her with some compensation for the trouble  and inconvenience  she was put 
to at this stage. That said, I also think the £300 the adjudicators  have already recommended 
is a fair amount  for the impact this had. 
I cant, though,  agree  that TSB is responsible for what happened next. Ms E made  a 
complaint to TSB on 11 September and at that point she hadnt  yet made the payment. She 
said TSB must  give her the information  she needed, or said she would have no option but to 
leave the bank. But it seems that, instead  of looking  for an alternative  payment method, 
Ms E then decided instead to send the payment using  information  she guessed  might be 
right. And its clear that the majority of the worry and inconvenience  caused to her resulted  
from this decision,  because her substantial payment didnt make it to its intended 
destination. 
TSB acted on the payment instructions and information Ms E gave.  But that information 
showed the credit unions  name and address as the beneficiary, and there was no routing 
number. Ms Es details,  as the correct  beneficiary,  also werent given. And so the payment 
couldnt be successfully  processed.
I can see that, after Ms E contacted TSB to chase the payment on 20 September,  TSB did 
establish the routing number and Ms Es full details and transmit that through  the SWIFT 
system to the banks  in the payment chain.  When  that wasnt successful and Ms E asked for 
the payment to be recalled on 15 October, TSB acted  on her request and chased  this up. So 
I think TSB did what Id reasonably expect it to do to help Ms E trace  and recall the payment. 
Ms E has told us shes now using a different  service to send money overseas, which is 
understandable in the circumstances. But she could have used a different service for this 
payment too. I do agree  that Ms E didnt have the right information to make the payment 
through TSB,  because TSB had mistakenly deleted  it  and so I understand why she feels  all 
her losses  flow from this. But it was still, ultimately, Ms Es choice to send the payment 
through TSB when she wasnt sure the information she had was right.  Most of the losses  
Ms E refers to flowed from that choice.  So I cant fairly  say that TSB must now compensate 
Ref: DRN12268453her for the exchange rate loss, or her loss of work  time, or the personal  impact she says not 
having the money had on her.
Finally, I note that the adjudicators also recommended  that TSB refund the £17.50 fee Ms E 
paid for the failed  transfer and TSB agreed  to do this. Ms E would always  have had to pay a 
fee to make  a payment,  but its likely  shes had to pay another  fee when she sent her 
payment again  using  a different method. So, as TSB has already agreed  to refund the 
international payment fee, I wont comment on this any further. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Ms E £300 for the impact the IT issues had
and refund the £17.50  international payment fee
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Es complaint   in the sense that I agree TSB 
caused Ms E some trouble and inconvenience by mistakenly deleting her payment 
information. So TSB Bank Plc should put things right by doing  what  Ive said above  if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1226845