K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about a car she bought  under a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited.
background
In April 2018 Ms S bought a used  car under a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Startline. The car was seven years  old, and had been driven  over 65,000  miles.  She says 
that as soon as she drove the car away, it felt sluggish. The engine  was noisy when in high 
revs. Over the next six months she says the car broke down five times, and was taken back 
to the garage  in May, September  and October. In October 2018 she stopped driving  it, and 
complained to Startline  that the car had been  defective when it was sold.  She stopped 
making her monthly payments.
Startline did not agree that the car had been defective when Ms S had acquired it. It 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert (an engineer)  in November. 
The expert agreed that the engine was noisy  when in high revs,  but he said the noise was 
not excessive,  that this was characteristic for that kind of engine, and that the engine was 
running properly.  He noted that there was high soot content in the diesel  particulate  filter 
(DPF), and this was likely to have  been caused by the manner in which  Ms S had driven the 
car (since frequent short journeys can cause a build-up of soot which  can clog the DPF). 
Ms S had driven over 3,600 miles since buying the car, and he thought that any problem with 
the DPF would have become evident sooner. He said the DPF had been  regenerating 
correctly. The expert  concluded  that the car had probably not been faulty at the point of sale. 
So Startline argued that the original problems had been different faults, which  had been  
repaired by the garage.
Ms S brought this complaint to our Service. She provided two roadside  reports  by the RAC, 
dated September and October  2018  (both have since  been provided to Startline).  The 
October report stated that an attempt  to regenerate  the DPF had failed, and that the car 
would have to be taken to the garage to be looked at. It also said that the engine was 
unusually noisy when  revving.
Meanwhile, in February 2019, the car was collected from Ms Ss driveway, on behalf  of 
Startline. The next day, Startline obtained  a second expert report, by the same engineer. He 
maintained that the DPF was very unlikely to be defective, and that if it was, then it hadnt  
been when it was sold in April. He thought  that the DPF was nearing the end of its life.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He noted  that DPF issues  can develop over time, and 
that the issues identified by the RAC did not appear to have  been  investigated  by the garage 
or by the expert instructed by Startline. He said he hadnt seen evidence to support the 
contention that Ms Ss driving style was to blame. The engine warning light was still on, 
contradicting the experts report. He concluded that the car must have been faulty at the 
point of sale. He recommended that the finance  agreement be ended  with nothing  more for 
Ms S to pay, that her deposit be refunded with interest, and that she be paid £150 
compensation for her trouble.
Startline did not accept that opinion.  It said that the earlier repairs  by the garage  had not 
been about the DPF, and so as the DPF was a new issue the garage was entitled to one 
more attempt to fix it. It suggested  that the adjudicator  had not given enough weight to the 
experts reports, and it endorsed the experts  assessment  that any DPF fault would surely  
Ref: DRN12939252have become apparent after less than 3,600  miles,  meaning that the fault must have begun  
to develop after Ms S had bought  the car. It asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows. (I have modified it slightly to correct a 
factual error  in the original version.)
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the invoices for the various repairs done by the garage before the first RAC 
report. They dont  mention the DPF or anything relevant to the DPF. They  refer to other 
faults, which I accept  were repaired,  since  they were not diagnosed by the expert as still 
being present.
The last of these  invoices, dated  one day before  the first RAC  report,  gives the mileage  as 
68,628. The first RAC report  gives a totally different mileage: 38,255. That must  be wrong, 
since it is contradicted by all of the other  evidence in this case,  and it is not in dispute  that 
the mileage was much more than that when  Ms S bought the car. The second  RAC report,  
only a month  later (October  2018), gives the mileage as 69,214. The experts first report, in 
the month after that, gives 69,232.
Both RAC reports give the same diagnostic codes, one of which  relates to the DPF. That 
seems to be the first mention of a fault with the DPF. Its not clear what work (if any) was 
done to the car after the first RAC  report.  But the experts first report states (at paragraph 
R4) that the car had performed 129 successful regenerations of the DPF. The last one had 
occurred at 68,235 miles,  or just over 400 miles before the last garage invoice and the first 
RAC report,  and nearly 3,000 miles after Ms S bought the car. He could find no evidence  of 
a physical defect  with the DPF. He is an engineer who has 40 years  experience  in the motor  
trade.
I think this is convincing evidence that the DPF was working properly when the car was sold, 
and that it started  to fail some time after that, in or just before September  2018.  It is of 
course correct that DPF issues  can develop  over time, and I accept that the RAC were 
unable to regenerate the DPF in October  2018.  But I accept the experts  statement  that it 
would not have taken as long as 3,600  miles for a fault to become apparent, and so the fault 
would not have been developing  as early as April.  He attributed  the problem with the DPF to 
the car being  driven for short journeys, as this can cause soot to build up to a level where  it 
blocks the system. (A DPF automatically  regenerates during  long journeys  above  40 miles 
per hour.)
Given that there is evidence that the DPF actually  did regenerate while Ms S was driving it, 
I think she cant have only been driving it on short journeys. But that same  evidence also 
means that the DPF was working  properly  for 3,200  miles after she bought  it.
There is another possible explanation, which is unrelated to how the car was being  driven.  
I note that the expert thought that the DPF might be being adversely affected  by a fault with 
the glow plugs,  as there was a fault code relating to the glow plugs at the time of his 
inspection. He recommended  that this should be investigated further, and he also 
recommended clearing those codes  from the system and then seeing if they recur (in case 
they were only ghost codes), but no such investigation seems to have been  carried out. 
Ref: DRN12939253Startline picked up on this at the time, and mentioned the glow plugs to the garage. But the 
garage replied to say that the glow plugs  are serviceable parts, which  can fail due to normal 
wear and tear. As this fault had not been reported before, it was unlikely to have been 
present at the point of sale in April.  So even if the glow plugs are what was causing  the DPF 
to fail, the garage  and Startline  would not be liable for that.
Since the expert said that those faults were very unlikely to have been present or developing 
at the point of sale, I therefore dont think that any useful  conclusions could be obtained (as 
far as Startlines liability is concerned) by investigating those  fault codes any further.
For the above reasons, I am currently  not minded to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms S did not accept  my provisional decision.  She pointed  out an error, which I have 
corrected above  (I had mistakenly thought that there were two experts, because the experts 
second report was contained in a letter which  had been signed by someone else who was 
quoting him). She criticised the expert  for not taking  the car for a test drive,  and for saying 
there were no dashboard warning lights when she had provided a photograph showing that 
there was one. She disputed that ghost  codes would occur  more than once. She questioned 
his impartiality because  he had been paid by Startline, and provided negative  reviews of his 
company she had found online. She asked for an opportunity to instruct her own expert  to 
perform another  inspection. But Startline said the car had been sold at auction in June 2020.
Ms S also said she never made short journeys in the car. She argued that the information  
that had been provided  about  DPFs was of no value because this information  was easy to 
find on the internet.  She reiterated that the RAC  reports proved that the DPF was faulty. She 
suggested that I had disregarded both reports because one of them had given the wrong 
mileage. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the car had already been sold before I wrote my provisional decision, it cant  be 
inspected again,  so I will have to make do with the evidence I already  have.
I did not disregard the RAC reports. I only mentioned the evidence about the mileage in 
order to resolve the inconsistency and to explain why I accepted the higher mileage figure  
instead of the lower  one. To be clear,  I do accept that the RAC  reports  prove that there  was 
a fault with the DPF in September and October  2018. But they do not prove that this fault 
existed as long ago as April, when  the car was sold to Ms S. The DPF regenerations  which  
continued to occur up to 3,000 miles after that suggest the opposite.
I accept that Ms S generally did not use the car for short journeys. But the glow plugs are 
another possible explanation for why the DPF might have begun  to fail in the latter half of 
2018. 
Ms S took a photo  of the dashboard with the engine warning light on, and the mileage on the 
dashboard display is the same as the mileage recorded by the expert at the time of his first 
report. That doesnt necessarily mean that the expert was lying when he said the warning 
Ref: DRN12939254light didnt come on at the time of the inspection, it might just be an intermittent issue.  (There 
is no warning light on in the experts own photo of the dashboard.)
I can understand Ms Ss (and our adjudicators) criticism of the experts  decision not to test 
drive the car. His report may have been more persuasive if he had done, not least because 
then he would have  seen the engine  warning light. But his explanation for not driving  the car 
is because he found that the DPF had regenerated successfully  nearly  3,000  miles after 
Ms S had bought the car. If he had driven  the car, I think he would have concluded that the 
DPF was faulty at the time of his inspection. But its clear to me, from what  he has written  in 
both reports, that he would  still have  concluded  that the DPF was not faulty when the car 
was sold to Ms S, based on the successful regenerations and the mileage covered since  
then.
I wont automatically conclude that an expert will necessarily be biased  in favour of the party  
who pays him. An expert with integrity  will give his honest opinion  without fear or favour.  I do 
not doubt that that is the case  here.  I agree that it would have been better if he had 
conducted a test drive, because he had previously indicated that thats  what  he intended to 
do. But on discovering the 129 successful regenerations, he then changed his mind  about 
the need for a test drive, and I accept that he did that in good faith. I therefore remain  of the 
view that there is insufficient evidence for me to be satisfied that the DPF was faulty in April 
2018 (although  I am certain  that it was faulty  by the time the RAC inspected it).
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 November 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1293925