K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Snap-on-Finance  UK Limited  (Snap-on-Finance) are asking him to pay 
money he doesnt owe.
background
Mr K bought tools from a franchisee of Snap-on-Finance but when the franchisee was 
dismissed for irregularities  Mr K says Snap-on-Finance got his account  balance wrong and 
are asking him to pay more than he owes. Mr K thinks the actual balance is about £1,500, he 
doesnt think Snap-on-Finance have taken into account the cash  payments he made for 
items. He also doesnt think he has taken out more than two hire purchase  agreements with 
them.
Snap-on-Finance checked the signatures  on the finance agreements against  the signature  
on Mr Ks driving license. They thought they were  the same.  They asked for evidence  of 
cash payments and for bank statements from Mr K to demonstrate  the regular contributions 
he said hed been  making towards  his agreements but Mr K didnt provide any. So Snap-on-
Finance didnt uphold his complaint and Mr K therefore referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr K had been able to provide sufficient evidence to support his 
claim that payments  had been made and agreements were not consented to. He thought 
Snap-on-Finances approach had been fair in the circumstances.  He noted that theyd asked  
for evidence  from Mr K but hadnt  been  provided with the necessary bank statements to 
demonstrate the payments that hadnt  been  accounted for. He thought theyd been fair when 
they agreed to remove one finance agreement that they thought  may have been duplicated 
and he also thought theyd been  fair to agree  to remove adverse reports  theyd made  to the 
credit reference agencies about  payment history, if the accounts were brought back up to 
date. But, as the accounts werent  brought up to date, he didnt think theyd  been  
unreasonable when leaving the reports in place. Overall, he didnt think  it would be fair to 
ask the business to take any further  action.
Mr K disagreed with the investigator. He said it was difficult  for him to prove cash payments 
and he said it was clear  the franchisee  had defrauded others and must have defrauded him 
too. He therefore  asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr K so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN10448492Mr K acquired his tools under hire purchase  agreements. These are regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about them.  
Its not disputed  that the business had problems  with the franchisee who supplied Mr Ks 
tools. But in the absence  of evidence, that payments were  made  or there  were  irregularities 
with finance agreements, I dont  think its fair to suggest that because  the franchisee  
defrauded others he or she necessarily  defrauded Mr K and the business should  therefore 
take some  action.
Whilst Mr K has explained that receipts  were never provided for his cash payments. I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to expect  Snap-on-Finance to simply accept that without any 
evidence of payment.  I think  Mr K had a responsibility to ensure receipts were provided and 
Id expect him to be able to do so in order for him to demonstrate his business expenses.
I think the business have been  fair. Theyve  agreed to remove a finance agreement  that may 
have been a duplicate although  it was also conceivable that it wasnt. And they were also 
prepared to remove credit  file reports if the account  was brought  up to date. But as the 
account wasnt brought up to date I dont think they needed to do so.
Overall, Im not persuaded theres  been sufficient  evidence provided by Mr K to support his 
complaint and I dont  think Snap-on-Finance  need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1044849