K822xcomplaint
Mr T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy with two loans.  
background and summary to complain
Mr T bought  the first policy in 2003 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £90.09 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £30.65 with the PPI costing an additional £2.76 making the total 
monthly repayment £33.41. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Ts monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. It would repay the outstanding  balance in full in the event  of Mr Ts death. 
At the time,  Mr T was employed as a sales advisor. He has told us he was entitled to at least  
three months full sick pay and some redundancy pay. He has also said he didnt have  any 
other means  of repaying his loan should  he be unable to work.  Mr T has said he broke his 
leg around five years  prior to the sale  but this appears to have been a one-off accident with 
no lasting impact. So to all intents and purposes,  based  on what he has told us I consider  he 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2005.
Mr T also took out a PPI policy  in 2004  when  he took out another  loan. This too was a single 
premium policy - the upfront premium was £180.18 and this loan was also repayable over a 
36-month term. The monthly loan repayment  was £61.30 with the PPI costing an additional  
£5.52 making the total monthly repayment  £66.82.
Nationwide has told us that it is willing to make an offer of compensation for Mr Ts complaint 
about the PPI he took out in 2004  and that this offer is in line with the Financial 
Ombudsman Services guidelines intended  to put Mr T back  in the position he would have 
been in had he not taken  out PPI with this loan. I will refer to this at the end of my decision.  
But this means there is no need for me to consider this part of the complaint  if I decided  to 
uphold it I would reach the same conclusion on how to put things right.  So my decision is 
fundamentally about the PPI Mr T took out with his loan in 2003.  
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ts representative  says:
Ref: DRN14665232Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr T about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr T and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint about the 2003 sale but said that Nationwide  
was prepared to make an offer for the 2004  sale  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint
Ref: DRN14665233This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ts complaint.  
Ref: DRN14665234key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr T know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
This was a sale by branch meeting. Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr Ts loan 
agreement from the time.  Looking at this I can see the agreement  set out the cost of the PPI 
in a separate column titled Optional  Credit Insurance. Because  of the way the PPI was set 
out here and from the way it was described, I dont think Mr T would have been under the 
impression he had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr T knew  the policy  was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr T hasnt said either way.   
Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr T the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice   Ive not seen anything which leads me to believe Nationwide 
recommended the cover  to him.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr T. 
Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr T to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Ref: DRN14665235Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr T was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr T was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  this at the very least would have discussed  during the meeting. 
And I think its unlikely Mr T would have taken  out the policy  without any sense  of what the 
policy was. I also think Mr T knew that the single  premium  being added to the loan was 
£90.09, the interest added to the premium was £9.27, the total cost was £99.36  and the 
monthly cost was £2.76 as this information  was, in my view,  sufficiently clear on the loan 
agreement Mr T signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr T agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Ts. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr T? To what extent did Mr T 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr T. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Ref: DRN14665236Mr T says he would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr T had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr T thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr T was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr T would get back in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ts expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr T knew about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy,  or anything he received 
advice or treatment for during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurred 
within 12 months of the start date; and 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr T pause for thought  and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
He was eligible  for its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations  and 
exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the insured risks have become a reality. I 
also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the significant  
exclusions  in my view and as I said earlier on Mr T didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and he was in permanent employment. So, I still think  he had some good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN14665237The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr T needed to be unable to do any work as certified by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different, if different at all to what  he would  have expected 
to make a claim. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr T decided to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr T made  redundant,  or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr T would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr T would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr T 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN14665238Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Nationwide  should pay Mr T compensation, as that would put him in a better  
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr T thinks  Nationwide misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr T, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr T and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr T in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint about the 2003 sale of PPI.
But Nationwide has made an offer of compensation to Mr T for the 2004  PPI sale in line with 
the Financial Ombudsman Services guidelines, which will put him back  in the position he 
would have been in had he not taken out PPI. If Nationwide has not already done  so, it 
should make  the required  payment to Mr T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1466523