K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Zurich Assurance Ltds  failure to adequately reduce 
the cost of their whole of life cover in light of new information obtained by Mrs C concerning  
her state  of health.  
background
In 2015, Mr and Mrs C applied, through their adviser, for a whole of life policy  with Zurich. 
They were  quoted a standard premium  of £583.40 a month but this was subject to 
underwriting.
After receiving a medical report on Mrs C, Zurich became  concerned about a particular 
health condition.  It therefore explained  that it would impose a rating of 150%  to the quoted  
premium, causing it to increase to £774.68.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the quotation  and the policy started in January  2016.
In May 2016, Zurich  received updated information  concerning Mrs Cs health. Zurich 
confirmed that this allayed its concerns. It said it couldnt amend the terms of the existing 
policy but said it could  offer a new policy providing the same cover with a reduced rating of 
50% in respect  of Mrs C. It said this would cost £737.22.
Mr and Mrs C thought  the revised rating  should have resulted in a more significant  reduction 
in the cost of the new policy. They didnt accept the quote. They  complained to Zurich.
Zurich didnt uphold  the complaint. It maintained it had acted properly.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  at Zurichs  response.  They referred  their complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that Zurich was unable to alter the terms of the existing policy and had calculated the cost of 
a new policy  fairly.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the adjudicators  findings. They  couldnt understand why it wasnt  
possible to alter the terms of their existing policy given that the basis on which its terms were  
drawn had been  shown  to be incorrect. They further  couldnt understand why the reduction 
in Mrs Cs rating had made  so little difference to the quoted premium  for their cover.   
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
First, let me deal with the issue  of whether Zurich should be required to amend the terms of 
the existing policy.  When the policy was set up, Zurich had a particular concern about 
Mrs Cs health. This caused  it to increase  the offered premium from what it would have 
normally charged. Mr and Mrs C were made aware of the proposed premium and agreed to 
this.
Ref: DRN10286212After the policy  was in operation, Zurich received information which  showed  the risk 
associated with Mrs Cs health  wasnt as great  as it had assumed. Zurich has said that if it 
had known this at the time the policy was set up, it wouldnt have increased the premium to 
the same  extent. 
This doesnt mean, however,  that Zurich made a mistake by charging the amount it did. This 
was the correct amount based on the information  which was available to it at the time and 
the insurance contract was willingly entered into on that basis. If information had become 
available shortly after the policy had started which showed that, unbeknown to all parties, 
Mrs C was a much  greater risk than had been  realised, Zurich would have been unable to 
change the terms  of the policy to charge more. By the same  token, Zurich is under no 
obligation to reduce the price of the existing policy now that it is apparent the risk is lower.  
And while I recognise that Mr and Mrs C would  prefer  to alter the terms of the existing policy 
rather than take out a new policy, not least because they had already gone to the trouble of 
applying a Deed  of Assignment  to the existing policy, I cant  reasonably tell Zurich  that it 
must do this.
Zurich confirmed, however, that it could offer Mr and Mrs C a new policy  offering similar 
cover but with a rating of 50% rather than 150%. But when  it provided  a quote for this, the 
premium was £737.22, which was a reduction of only £37.46 on what  they were  paying for 
the existing policy.
I can fully understand  why Mr and Mrs C were  very surprised and disappointed to find the 
offered premium wasnt much less than this. However, as the adjudicator  has explained, we 
generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its policies. 
Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its internal 
guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally  interfere.
In particular, I should point out that an insurer isnt obliged to charge premiums strictly 
according to the level of risk. It may make the commercial  decision to offer discounts or 
adjustments of various sorts which have the effect  of distorting the relationship  between  
premium and risk. In this particular case,  Zurich has confirmed that there was a special deal 
associated with the policy when Mr and Mrs C took this out but this deal wasnt available  
with the new policy when it was offered.
It would have been helpful if Zurich  had provided Mr and Mrs C with this explanation 
because I think it would  have helped them to understand that the difference between the 
premiums for the existing  and new policy didnt simply reflect a change in Zurichs 
assessment of risk.
I have considered whether Zurich should reasonably  offer the same deal on Mr and Mrs Cs 
new policy that it offered  on their existing policy. However, I have concluded  that it isnt 
obliged to do this. In the end, it is up to Zurich to decide  when  to offer discounts  and there is 
no reason why Mr and Mrs C must  stay with the same insurer.  If Mr and Mrs C think  that 
Zurichs offer for a new policy is uncompetitive, there is nothing stopping them from instead 
seeking a new policy from another provider. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN10286213Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1028621