K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down his claim under his pet insurance  
policy. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint, and this is an extract from 
my decision:
In 2016 Mr A took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy with Aviva  to cover his rescue  dog. In 
2017 and 2018 the dog received treatment for a cancerous mass. In 2018  Mr A made a 
claim for the cost of treatment.
Aviva turned down  the claim. It said the mass under the dogs chin was the same one that 
had been investigated and treated in 2016,  not long before Mr A took out the policy. This 
meant it was pre-existing  under the policy terms and the claim wasnt covered. 
Neither Mr A nor his vet agreed that a lump  treated  in 2016 was the same as the cancerous  
mass treated in 2017  and 2018. Aviva took advice from its own consultant vet and, based  on 
all the veterinary evidence, said that it was likely the 2016 lump was the same  one treated in 
2017/2018. Mr A came  to us.
Our investigator thought the treating vets evidence was persuasive and recommended that 
Aviva meet Mr As claim. Aviva  didnt agree, so the complaints come to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not likely to uphold  
this complaint.
The policy says there is no cover for pre-existing conditions.  This term isnt unusual  in pet 
insurance policies  and we dont consider it is unreasonable. Aviva has set out the 
pre-existing condition exclusion clearly in the policy document. 
The policy definition of a pre-existing  condition  includes an illness that first showed  clinical  
signs, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs, as an illness  the pet had before the cover 
started. An illness is defined as any change(s)  to a normal healthy state, sickness, disease,  
defects and abnormalities. 
Mr A says that the lump that he and the vet noticed  in June 2016, before he took out the 
policy, disappeared.  He and his vet say the lumps noted in 2017 and 2018 are different  
conditions, so Aviva shouldnt have rejected the claim based on its pre-existing condition 
exclusion.
Ive carefully thought  about all the evidence. Its clear  that Mr A is a responsible dog owner 
and has followed the advice hes been given by his vet. But I still think  Aviva was fairly 
entitled to treat the lump  which was treated in 2018 as a pre-existing condition. Ill explain my 
reasons, with reference to all the veterinary evidence Ive been given. 
Ref: DRN19354902Mr A adopted the dog in May 2016, and she was seen by his vet soon after that in June 
2016. The vet saw the dog on 8 and 24 June 2016  and Mr A took out the pet insurance 
policy on 26 June 2016. 
Its important for me also to consider Mr As knowledge of the June 2016 lump, at the time 
he took out the policy. And I see from the vets clinical notes, made at the time of each 
appointment that on 8 June 2016  the vet noted the dog had a mass in her chin between  jaw 
bones known  as rami,  which  was possibly a salivary cyst. It was a lump  of around 1cm by 
1cm. The vet took a fine needle aspiration  (FNA) of the lump and arranged  for blood tests.  
The lab report of the mass suggested  a granulomatous inflammatory reaction, in other 
words the vet thought the lump was a mass of immune cells formed at the site of an 
infection. The vet gave the dog antibiotics and arranged for her to be reassessed.  
On 24 June 2016 the mass was noted  to be the same  size, and the vet advised they could 
observe the lump. If it got bigger the vet said they would take a biopsy punch, either under 
general anaesthetic or sedation.
So at the time Mr A took out the pet insurance he knew the dog had a lump, which needed  to 
be observed, and if it got bigger the vet would  take a biopsy punch. He couldnt  have  known 
about any cancerous growth  at that time, but he did know the lump hadnt  reduced in size at 
that point. 
I can see that in August,  September  and October 2016 the vet examined the dog again  for a 
skin infection,  which included the chin area (where the mass was located). The clinical  notes  
reflect the dogs  skin was itching, red and thickened. Theres  no mention of the lump. Mr A 
said the lump had disappeared, and the vet has since  said if there had been a lump  it would 
have been treated. 
In May 2017  Mr A took the dog in for her booster injections. The vets clinical notes said that 
that the lump  between mandib [mandibular] rami now 3 or 4cm, v firm. Had FNA before  
granulomatous, much larger  adv [advise] look again.  The vet did a FNA of the mass, 
which was sent for testing. Just over a week  later the clinical  notes say the FNA lump under 
chin not diagnostic.  Discuss taking  bigger  sample   punch biopsy under local. Samples of 
the mass  were taken  and sent for testing.
The mass was diagnosed  as a liposarcoma, which is a cancerous lump.  The lump was 
taken out (excised)  in early June 2017. The notes say the lump was in the middle and 
underside of the chin, and that there were mixed  tissue  types  and appearances.  A later note 
said the liposarcoma  extended to the margins of the tissue  removed. 
By July 2017  the vet could still feel the lump, and said the dog should  be referred to a 
specialist vet if it could  still be felt after a further  month. But by October 2017 the vet couldnt  
find any evidence of a lump. In April 2018  the vet felt another  lump,  likely related to the 
previous lump or mass and the dog was sent to a specialist vet referral centre. The 
specialist vet removed  the lump.  It was after this that Mr A made a claim for the vets fees for 
the dogs 2018 treatment.  The claim was for recurrent  liposarcoma in submandibular 
region. The date the illness began wasnt completed on the claim form.
Aviva contacted the vet, referring to the 10 May 2017 entry  which seemed to suggest  that 
the 2017 mass was the same one as the 2016 granulomatous mass. Aviva  also asked the 
treating vet to clarify if the 2016 lump had been  removed. 
Ref: DRN19354903The vet replied to say that:
The small mass found under the dogs chin in June 2016 was found  to be a 
granulomatous inflammation,  which was an innocuous finding. It was treated with 
antibiotics and monitored.  The vet said that the lump wasnt noted during  the August 
or October 2016  visits, even  though the dog had an itchy chin related to an allergic  
skin disease.  
At the May 2017 vaccinations a much  larger mass in a similar location was noted. 
This proved to be a liposarcoma,  which the vet said was clearly not the same as the 
lump we sampled in June  2016. The mass  was removed but without complete 
margins. And on recurrence in April 2018  the dog was referred  to a specialist vet for 
more advanced  surgery. 
The granulomatous lump in June 2016 and the liposarcoma  diagnosed  in May 2017 
are two different conditions,  as shown by the lab reports. It is incorrect to assume  the 
liposarcoma is a pre-existing  condition. Had it been present in June 2016 the vets 
would not have  left it untreated  until 2017.
She genuinely  thought  there were two separate lumps,  one granulomatous,  one 
sarcomatous. Without photos or a detailed  description of the location she couldnt  
give further help (about the exact  location).  But she said the intermandibular (chin 
area) is quite a large place. She said she thought it was unlikely her practices vets 
would have missed a sarcoma on the first FNA, or that the sarcoma  would have 
grown that slowly.  The vet said the 2016 lump was definitely not removed. 
Aviva asked a consultant  vet - a practising vet in a different vets practice - for an expert  
opinion based  on the clinical notes. The consultant vet said Aviva  had been correct to 
decline the claim, saying:
The CT report from the specialist vet details only a central ventral mandibular  mass 
(a lump in the middle  and underside  of the jaw) which  was removed. This can only be 
the mass  that was needle biopsied (non diagnostic) and then removed  with the 
testing (histopathy) confirming the presence of an incompletely excised 
liposarcoma. The referral centre described a local recurrence rate of this type of 
mass as 80% or more. 
There are not two lumps here, only one, and it is very difficult  to diagnose a sarcoma 
from a needle biopsy  alone. It is very common for them  not to yield sufficient cells 
through the biopsy technique to provide  a diagnostic sample. 
Ive carefully thought  about all the evidence. Having  done so, I think the weight of evidence,  
is in Avivas favour. 
In my view the veterinary notes, made at the time of each consultation, are persuasive. 
I think the May 2017 entry shows  that the lump was the same one as the one noted in June  
2016. The lump  was noted to be in the same  place  between  the jaw bones, known as the 
rami. The vet said that the lump was now  larger, and previously been tested by way of 
FNA where it was shown to be granulomatous. I cant see why the vet would have said this 
in the clinical notes if it had been  a new or different  lump. The anti-biotics didnt immediately 
reduce the lump in size, according to the vets notes, which said theyd  observe the lump  
and if it got bigger they would take a biopsy punch.  This was the course of action the vet 
took in May 2017 when the lump had grown in size. 
It seems  to me that the treating vet acknowledged, by saying theyd take a biopsy punch if 
the lump got bigger that the FNA wouldnt be the only diagnostic  tool theyd use. So I dont 
Ref: DRN19354904think there was any question of Mr As vet failing to treat the lump in 2016.  Rather,  the vet 
was saying theyd  watch and wait. 
As Ive said Mr A was clearly a responsible owner,  and took the dog to the vets as needed. 
He says hed have brought the dog back if hed felt the lump, and I do accept that. I can see 
the dogs chin area was examined later in 2016.  And the 2017 lump was picked up during 
the booster visit in May 2017. But although Ive taken this into account I dont think Mr As 
evidence and his vets later comments outweigh the contemporaneous evidence from May 
2017 that the lump noted in 2016 had grown.  The vet wasnt  able to be clear that the 2016 
and 2017 lumps were  different ones in different locations. This isnt surprising given the time 
that had passed since the 2017  examination. But the May 2017  notes did indicate the lump 
was the same one, and I dont think the later vets comments   which  I accept are genuinely  
made comments, by an experienced  vet - are as persuasive as the clinical  notes. 
The 2017  lump was a liposarcoma, and I think the evidence is that it was the same  lump 
noted in June 2016. The clinical notes and the vets evidence both say the margins were 
incomplete, which unfortunately  means  a high chance of recurrence. So I think  Aviva  was 
entitled to treat say that the 2018  claim  was pre-existing, based on a recurrence of the lump  
noted in 2017 and 2016. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr A, given our earlier  findings.  But for the reasons give 
I dont think it would  fair to require  Aviva to pay the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
Mr A responded to say that he disagreed  with my provisional decision and was very upset 
about it. Hes made  a detailed response, which Ive considered in full and I include  here a 
summary of his main  points:
Hes not complained about Avivas  pre-existing condition  policy.  But its policy  is 
written ambiguously to cover anything Aviva doesnt  want  to cover.  It made the claim 
decision so quickly it couldnt have examined  all the facts.  
Following an FNA, the June 2016  was diagnosed by an external laboratory 
examination (not a vet) as a granulomatous  inflammation. It was treated successfully 
with antibiotics.  Hed previously lost two dogs  of the same breed to cancer,  and he 
discovered the lump   not the vet. So he checked the dog regularly and knows the 
lump had gone, having been cleared by antibiotics. Id described him as a 
responsible dog owner but then had effectively suggested hed left his dog to suffer 
over a year. During that year the dog was seen by three  different vets dealing  with a 
skin infection under her throat, and the lump wasnt seen  or noted by those vets. 
Avivas vet didnt see or examine  his dog. 
He appreciates the May 2017 notes are slightly confusing because  they used the 
word now and it seemed to be the lump from before. But the vet hadnt  seen the dog 
in the intervening period and clarified  that to Aviva. And the May 2017 note was 
made almost 12 months after treatment  of the first lump. The nature  of the lump a 
liposarcoma  a fairly uncommon  type of cancer  would  be fast growing, so its 
unlikely to be the first lump. It would have grown and got larger.  The second lump 
had a different  diagnosis  from the first (again by laboratory report).  
It was Mr A who found the 2017 lump, not the vet, and took his dog to the vet for that 
reason and paid for the tests  and operation to remove the lump.  He didnt claim. He 
Ref: DRN19354905was confident in making  the claim for the 2018 treatment because of the £12,000 
cover under the policy. The hospital  told him the claim had been declined, and it 
caused him some hardship to pay the full bill. 
Id elevated the vet used  by Aviva to a consultant  status.  Hes not been told before 
of any consultant or specialist status   just another practising vet. Theres  no 
evidence the lumps are the same, only speculation. Mr A has shown there  were  two 
different lumps. And Avivas vet was paid to make a conflicting report, where his own 
vet wasnt paid at all for her reports.  Avivas vet didnt say anything  other than to say 
the work  was done by a specialist hospital  on the third (2018) lump, and the 
comment about the FNA was an attempt to muddy the waters and downplay  the 
effectiveness of the FNA  used worldwide both for animals and humans as a 
diagnostic tool. No vet concerned by an incomplete  diagnosis would leave it there. 
Aviva hasnt  actually provided  any evidence, so I shouldnt suggest the weight of 
evidence is in Avivas  favour. 
Ive misunderstood  the vets 2016  comment.  Its natural for a vet to suggest further 
treatment such as a biopsy, but in this case it wasnt needed.  There was no need for 
further treatment because the lump  was gone   theres no connection between  the 
2016 and the 2017 treatment. The 2017 comment is that the FNA didnt show what  
the large lump  was specifically, so the FNA was carried out on the first. So the vet 
then arranged a punch biopsy. 
The location of the lump is called  into question,  and Id said there were no 
photographs when  in fact it was the vet whod said that. All the vet was interested in 
was that the lump  was under the chin area, and his dogs vet said the two lumps 
were different  clearly not the same lump sampled in June 2016. So both Aviva  and 
I have discounted  the evidence of the vet. 
Quoting his current and previous professions, Mr A doesnt  lie and strongly  attests 
the first lump (2016)  had disappeared. To suggest otherwise suggests  hes lying. And 
to place so much  trust on a paid adviser  and ignore  his vets evidence  suggests 
those comments are dishonest. The comments about incomplete margins  in 2017 
are irrelevant   he knew  this at the time.  Hes done enough to cast reasonable 
doubt on both Avivas and my provisional decision. Ive placed too much weight on 
the paid for vets evidence and not enough on his equally qualified vet who knows  the 
case. Hes very sad that insurance  intended  to help in need has not paid out, and 
that insurance companies can ignore  their clients. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the evidence again and Ive carefully thought  about  all Mr As comments.  
But they dont  change my opinion that I cant fairly uphold  this complaint. Ill give my reasons  
and Ive focused on what I consider to be the central issues.  
I should say that I decide the case based on all the evidence. So when I talked about  weight  
of evidence I wasnt talking just about the evidence supplied by Aviva.  Rather I was saying 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided by both Mr A and Aviva, including  the 
contemporaneous clinical veterinary notes and the comments of the vets.  Ive not 
disregarded or ignored any of the evidence,  which  Ive summarised above. 
This service doesnt require Aviva to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Where  
evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or conflicting  I decide cases  based  on the balance of 
Ref: DRN19354906probabilities  in other  words, what I consider is more likely  than not to have happened. In 
this case, I think its more likely than not that the lump  noted in June 2016 was the same  one 
noted in 2017, which then had to be treated again  in 2018. 
Mr A doesnt  disagree with Avivas pre-existing policy exclusion as such but says it is 
ambiguous and is designed  to be far reaching.  I dont think Avivas pre-existing condition  
exclusion is ambiguous.  Insurers generally  wont cover a consumer for issues  they knew  
about before  they took out the insurance  policy. Some  insurance companies ask specific  
questions about  a pets health before the consumer takes out the policy  and others rely on 
the pre-existing condition  exclusion   as Aviva has done here. 
Theres no question of Mr A lying or being  dishonest, and Ive not suggested that. I certainly  
dont think he failed  to take his dog to the vet for a year, knowing she was ill, which  is why I 
said it was clear he was a responsible dog owner.  But at the time he took out the policy he 
knew about the lump  and that it was possible it would need further treatment. In my 
experience no pet insurer  would cover  him where  that lump  later needed further  treatment, 
because it was pre-existing. 
So that leads  on to the issue  about  whether the lump noted in May 2017 was pre-existing  
in other  words, whether it was the same or directly linked to the June 2016  lump (noted 
before the policy started). Ive already explained  my assessment of the evidence  and that 
hasnt changed.  
I described the vets evidence supplied by Aviva as the consultant vets evidence because  
that was the vet Aviva had consulted  and to distinguish from Mr As vet described as the 
treating vet. Im sorry for any confusion. I did make it clear  in my provisional decision that vet 
as a practising  vet in another vets practice. But to be clear  Im not suggesting Avivas vet 
was a specialist  vet. Im aware that Aviva is likely to have paid for the advice and that the vet 
hadnt seen or examined the dog. But the advice was given by a professional practising vet 
and I dont find the fact that it was paid for means that advice would only ever be in Avivas  
favour. Ive noted Mr A thinks Aviva made the claim decision too quickly,  and told the 
hospital not him about its decision.  But I think  Aviva  did consider and give a detailed  
response to Mr As concerns. 
Ive explained  my view about the FNA diagnosis. The laboratory provided  the histology  for 
the lump,  but could  only do that based  on the sample provided. Mr As vet said a biopsy 
punch would  be needed if the lump got bigger. Mr As evidence  is that the lump disappeared  
and I dont doubt his integrity at all. Ive summarised all the evidence given by the treating 
vet, including  that shed said there werent  any photographs. Ive looked at that evidence 
again and carefully considered the comments about the location and speed of growth  of the 
lump. But I think the May 2017 contemporaneous clinical  note is persuasive evidence in this 
case, and that on balance  it suggests  the lump  noted then was the same as the one noted in 
June 2016 that pre-dates the policy. So I cant fairly make Aviva pay this claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and in this final decision I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN19354907Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1935490