K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that his warranty  that is now administered by Phoenix  Financial  Consultants  
Ltd was originally mis-sold.
background
Mr S bought a 24 month warranty for his car. After  the original broker ceased trading, the 
claim administration was taken over by Phoenix.  
Shortly after this Mr S experienced problems with the car that caused it to breakdown.  He 
took it to a mechanic at the dealership  who examined the vehicle and said the issue was 
bore scoring.  He made a claim on the warranty, but Phoenix declined his claim and said the 
problem wasnt covered as it was caused  by wear  and tear. It also said it would need to 
inspect the problem itself and would  need to completely  strip out the car in order to do this.
Mr S said the warranty had been  mis-sold  as he had asked the original selling agent if this 
problem would be covered, as he had heard it was a problem with the make and model of 
the car. He provided emails to show  that they had confirmed it would be covered under  the 
warranty. Mr S also said he wasnt prepared to get the car stripped out for Phoenix to inspect 
it, as he said it would  cost a lot of money  and leave  him with an useable  car if Phoenix then 
wouldnt accept the claim.  He made  a complaint to Phoenix.
Phoenix didnt  uphold his complaint. It said the fault was due to wear and tear and the car 
was above the age where this would be covered. Further  it said it had offered to inspect the 
car and Mr S had declined. It said the warranty says that it needs to inspect it before 
providing cover so it wouldnt apply. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair as he said he would have bought  a different warranty if he had 
thought this wouldnt be covered. And he said it wasnt fair to expect him to pay to strip out 
the car not knowing  whether the issue would be covered. He also thought Phoenix should  
refund the money he paid for the policy as well as covering  the claim. He brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  He 
said that he agreed the warranty had been  mis-sold. And as Mr S could have bought a 
different warranty if he had known, it is fair that Phoenix honour the claim. He therefore said 
Phoenix should pay the policy limit of £5,000 and pay an additional £750 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  However  he didnt agree that Phoenix  should refund 
the policy premiums.
Mr S accepted our investigators view, although still felt the premiums  should be refunded. 
However Phoenix didnt  agree. It said it wasnt fair that it had to cover the claim when it 
hadnt had a chance to inspect the car. Further, it said that if it paid the policy limit then Mr S 
should provide  a receipt for the repair work, as this is listed in the policy. Phoenix asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10376762Mr S brought his complaint to this service as he felt he had been  mis-sold the warranty. 
However the complaint is complicated by a number of factors which I will address to begin 
with. 
Firstly, the company Mr S originally purchased the policy from have gone out of business. So 
Phoenix took over the claims administration from them. It is therefore right that the complaint 
is considered against  Phoenix,  as even though it didnt initially sell the policy,  it now has 
responsibility for administrating it.
Further, I am aware there is an ongoing  dispute  between Phoenix and the listed  insurer of 
the policy, as the insurer  says it didnt agree to take on the policy. However I have not 
considered this as part of the complaint as I have considered the mis-sale of the policy, 
rather than any claim decision by the insurer. 
Since the complaint has come to this service Phoenix has accepted that the warranty was 
mis-sold. So in considering this complaint I need  to decide only on the appropriate redress, 
given the mis-sale. 
Phoenix has said that it feels it is appropriate  to refund Mr S the premiums  paid for the 
warranty. But doesnt agree that the claim should be covered. I have considered  this and I 
dont agree this would be fair, Ill explain why.
When Mr S took out the warranty he checked that the problem that has now developed with 
the car would be covered, as he was concerned  that it was a regular problem with this type 
of car . And this was confirmed by the original broker.  Further, Mr S has demonstrated that 
there were other policies  on the market that would have covered the fault.  So Im satisfied 
that he would have gone elsewhere if cover hadnt been confirmed for this fault. 
Because of this I think its fair that Phoenix honour the assurance given to Mr S that the 
claim would be covered, as that was the cover Mr S reasonably  believed  he was buying at 
the time.  And it seems clear he wouldnt have  purchased this warranty if it hadnt provided  
that cover. As the warranty  claim limit is £5,000 and the cost of the repair is likely to exceed  
this, I agree  with our investigators recommendation  that the limit should be paid to Mr S. As 
he would  reasonably have expected that this amount would be covered for the issue when 
buying the policy.
Phoenix disagree with this. It says that the policy requires an inspection of the vehicle as 
part of the assessment of the clam. And it says Mr S declined the inspection it offered. I have 
considered this and I dont agree  that this is fair. 
Mr S had his car inspected by a specialist for the make  of car. They were able to conclude  
that the problem was bore scoring. I think this is enough to meet the requirement  of an 
inspection, as the problem was diagnosed. 
Further, the inspection  Phoenix has requested is a complete  strip out. This would  be costly, 
and Mr S would  have to pay for it. There would also be no guarantee that once this was 
done, Phoenix would accept a claim.  So in that circumstance,  Mr S would have to pay to 
have the car reinstated. So I can understand why Mr S is hesitant  to agree to this course of 
action.
Ref: DRN10376763As a diagnosis has already been provided by a specialist garage, and considering the cost 
and risk of Mr S agreeing to the requested inspection,  I think  its reasonable for the claim to 
be accepted without further inspection.
Phoenix also disagree that the policy limit should be paid without the need for Mr S to 
provide proof that the repairs were  carried out. It says this is a condition  of the policy  and it 
wouldnt be fair for it to pay the money without reassurance  that the car would be repaired. I 
appreciate that this is a term of the policy, however  I also need  to consider what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.  
Mr S has explained that he bought this car as a leisure vehicle that he hoped  to get 
enjoyment out of at weekends and during free time.  He said he intended to use it for a few 
years then sell it. As this claim has been  ongoing  for a long period of time he hasnt been 
able to sell the vehicle with the outstanding  claim. So given it is likely Mr S may wish to sell 
the vehicle to meet his original plan,  I dont think its unreasonable to allow  him that option.  
Particularly given that this claim has gone  on for nearly two years. If Mr S does  choose  to 
sell the car, rather than getting  it repaired, it seems likely  that the value will be affected by 
the outstanding issue.  So I think the fairest resolution is to pay Mr S the policy limit for the 
repairs but allow him to choose whether he gets the car repaired or sells it.
For these reasons I will require Phoenix to pay Mr S the £5,000 policy  limit without the 
requirement for him to carry out the repairs. i will also require Phoenix to pay 8% simple 
interest from the date the claim should  have  been  settled until the amount is paid to make up 
for the time Mr S has been  without the money.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience Phoenix  has caused Mr S during the 
duration of this claim. Mr S first made  the claim in 2018. Since  then he has little use of the 
car He says that he has driven it on short journeys to make sure he keeps it functioning. 
However he has explained he bought it as a car for leisure  as his family have two other 
cars for everyday use. So although he hasnt suffered by not having a car, he has certainly 
lost the enjoyment  of it. 
Further during  the time of the claim Mr S has had to get his own assessment carried  out. 
And subsequently  deal with a lot of ongoing correspondence with Phoenix. As Mr S was able 
to present the emails from the point of sale that show what he was promised when  he 
bought the warranty, and he arranged  an inspection and diagnosis of the car promptly,  I 
think the claim should reasonably have been  settled very soon after it was made. As this 
didnt happen,  it is now nearly two years  on with little progress. For these reasons I agree 
with out investigators  recommendation  that Phoenix  pay Mr S £750 compensation to make  
up for the distress and inconvenience caused as well as the loss of enjoyment of the car.
I have also considered Mr S opinion  that Phoenix should also refund the policy  premiums  
paid as a gesture of goodwill. However I dont  think this would be fair. This is because  my 
decision is that Phoenix should  settle the claim.  So Mr S will have had benefit from the 
warranty. So I wont ask Phoenix to refund the premiums. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Phoenix Financial Consultants Ltd to:
Pay Mr S £5,000 to settle the claim without  the requirement that Mr S proves the 
repairs have been carried out.
Ref: DRN10376764Pay 8% simple per year interest  on this amount from the date the claim should have 
been settled until the amount is paid. *
Pay Mr S £750 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him. If Phoenix Financial  Consultants Ltd pay later than this they must  also 
pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
*If Phoenix Financial Consultants Ltd considers it should deduct income tax from any 8% 
interest element  of my award  it may do so, but should give Mr S the necessary certificate.
Ref: DRN1037676