K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains the vehicle he acquired with a hire purchase agreement  financed by Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality.  He wants to reject  the vehicle  - or 
alternatively have  it repaired without cost to him. And he says hes incurred other costs 
through issuing  court  proceedings and having to acquire a replacement vehicle. He wants  
these refunding.
background
Mr P has been represented  during the complaint  by a friend of his, R, but for ease of reading 
Ill mostly refer to Mr P as the main  contact.
Mr P tells us in August 2017  he acquired the vehicle through  a dealer,  T, a company. He 
encountered problems  with the vehicle in October  2017. He says the vehicle was inspected  
by S, a company, and faults were diagnosed. This included nuts and bolts  missing from 
driveshaft and gearbox. And there  was damage  to the wiring.  He says he contacted BMF 
about this in November 2017 but was told it couldnt do anything - and that he should contact 
T. Although the vehicle was repaired,  by T, he says an issue  also arose over the extent to 
which the repairs were  covered  by warranty. And when T issued him with a bill for repairs  in 
December 2017,  he started court proceedings against T. Those proceedings have now been 
discontinued.
In January 2018 Mr P says he again  contacted  BMF  and this time it registered his complaint. 
But as his own vehicle  remained with T he said he had to acquire a replacement  in order to 
get to work. Mr P says he told BMF he didnt  think his vehicle  had been  repaired properly 
and was unsafe. And he wanted to reject  it. But following an inspection by A - a company 
providing independent vehicle inspections  - in April 2018, he agreed  to take the vehicle back. 
But due to unresolved issues regarding payment for the vehicle repairs, storage charges and 
the ongoing litigation, he didnt get the vehicle returned until the following November.
BMF issued a final response letter on 12 March 2018. It said it had arranged  to have the 
vehicle repaired and the repairs had been  completed. It had not seen evidence  the vehicle 
was unsafe. It said Mr P should arrange  for the vehicle to be collected within seven days. 
Subsequently it said it had arranged an inspection which had been  carried  out by A. This 
had concluded  the vehicle  was without fault - other  than a minor issue  with the radio - and 
could return to use.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 February  2019  in which  I indicated  it 
was my intention to uphold the complaint. But the redress I intended to award was different 
to that recommended  by the investigator. Since  then both parties  have replied. BMF said it 
had nothing to add. Mr P made several comments and disputed  the accuracy of some  of the 
findings. I thank  both parties  for their replies. As Mr P has raised a number of issues  Ill deal 
with these separately in my final decision.  But Im not minded to change my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN17614682At the outset I ought to make  clear Ive seen evidence Mr P has withdrawn the legal 
proceedings he started and which affected an issue in this case.  Id not be able to make  a 
decision whilst a court  was in the process  of considering the same point. But now the 
proceedings have been  withdrawn I can continue with my decision.
Im aware that Mr P has raised  further issues relating to the vehicle since its return. But Im 
not going to deal with these. The present complaint has taken far longer to deal with than 
anticipated and I do not want to delay  a decision any further.  I understand Mr P has made  a 
further complaint  to BMF and that it is in the process  of dealing with that.
I can see this has been a complex and drawn-out  complaint.  And that Mr P has experienced 
considerable inconvenience  and distress over the way things have gone. It seems as if some 
of this is due to the approach of T. But as T is not a party to the complaint I cant make any 
recommendation as far as it is concerned.
As the dispute  has been so protracted  theres  a lot of material. And Ive read everything the 
parties have sent.  If I dont mention  something  individually its not because I havent taken it 
on board  - its just I dont  think I need  to refer to it separately in order  to reach what  I think is 
the correct decision.
Mr P acquired the vehicle  in August 2017  and reported faults  in October  2017.  The vehicle 
was inspected by S. This found nuts and bolts missing, issues with the wiring and evidence  
of earlier, poor repairs. Mr P reported this to both T and BMF. And the vehicle was taken to T 
to be repaired.  Ive seen evidence the repairs were completed by the start of December 
2017.
But an issue  arose about who would be responsible for paying  the cost of repairs. Believing 
that BMF had denied  being responsible Mr P issued court proceedings - against T - in late 
December 2017.  In response, T issued  a counterclaim. This dispute  was to have unfortunate 
consequences later on.
In early January  2018 Mr P made a further  complaint to BMF and that was followed up by a 
complaint to this service  in early March.  Mr P made it clear to BMF he thought  the vehicle 
was unsafe and said he wanted to reject it.
BMF responded, and said it had seen no evidence the vehicle was unsafe. It said it had 
settled the bill for repairs and that Mr P should make arrangements  to have the vehicle 
returned to him.
Mr P had in the meantime  purchased  another vehicle.  That was a matter entirely for Mr P - 
and not a decision over which BMF  had any influence.  It couldnt  reasonably  anticipate  he 
would purchase  a replacement vehicle when  his original vehicle had been repaired. So I 
shant be asking BMF to do anything about  this.
However, Mr P wanted to be assured the original vehicle was safe to drive. And so an 
inspection was arranged  - and this was carried out by a company, A, on 16 April 2018. This 
inspection found  the vehicle to be without fault other than for a minor issue  with the radio.
This should have  resolved the issues as Mr P was now prepared to take the vehicle back. 
But T was no longer  willing to release  it as it said further costs and storage charges had 
been incurred.  And it would  not release the vehicle  until these had been paid and Mr P had 
agreed to drop his legal  claim.
Ref: DRN17614683The impasse continued but eventually,  on or about 11 October  2018,  Ts position  changed  
and it agreed with BMF a basis of settlement The vehicle was then returned  to Mr P on 14 
November.
In his reply to the provisional decision Mr P mentioned a number of issues where he felt the 
findings Id indicated in the provisional  decision were not accurate. Ill deal with these 
separately and for clarity Ill explain my reasons under separate  headings.
non acceptance of the return of the vehicle.
Mr P states he didnt accept the vehicle back in March 2018 as he didnt trust the garage 
work. But he agreed the vehicle could be returned in April.  It wasnt returned until November 
2018.
Whilst I accept  this might have been  Mr Ps reason it doesnt affect the fact that the vehicle 
had been repaired  and was available for collection.  
And As report of 16 April says the vehicle was fit to return to service use.
So the basis  on which Mr P had refused to accept the vehicle  back  was shown to be 
unfounded. Whilst Mr P did then agree  to accept the vehicle back,  the dispute regarding  
storage charges had already arisen. And its this that led to the delay in the vehicle being 
returned.
issues relating to the court case.
Mr P says there was no contact nor was there an ongoing feud between  himself and T from 
January 2018.  And he states  he didnt  refuse  to drop the court case.  He says he had always 
been willing  to do so once matters were  resolved. And he feels it was BMFs refusal  to pay 
the storage charges that led to the vehicle being  retained by T.
However its characterised, there  was clearly an ongoing dispute between  Mr P and T. There 
was a court case between  the parties  involving a claim and a counterclaim.
And I dont  accept Mr Ps view that he didnt refuse to drop the court case.  His position  
throughout was that he would only drop it if matters were resolved to his satisfaction. In 
practical terms that amounts to a refusal. The fact that the case  was ongoing for almost 
twelve months supports  this conclusion.
Solicitors for BMF notified the investigator  that T would not release the car until Mr P 
dropped the court case. This was confirmed to Mr Ps representative in an email from the 
investigator on 30 July 2018. 
Mr Ps representative replied on 31 July and stated, the court case  will not be dropped until 
this is fully settled  and complete.
I also think Mr P may have partially  misunderstood  the nature of our complaint process. Hes 
made a number of references to the findings of an ombudsman during the course of the 
complaint. I think by this hes probably referring to the various recommendations of the 
investigator.
Ref: DRN17614684Its important to understand that its part of our investigators role to try to help the parties 
resolve their differences. In carrying out this role the investigator will explain the basis of his 
view and may put forward various recommendations as to how the complaint might  be 
resolved. But its open  to either party to disagree with the view of the investigator  and to ask 
for an ombudsman to make the final decision.  Thats whats happened  here.  
So whilst various recommendations were  made  during the course of the complaint - which  
Mr P feels  were  more favourable to him - these did not amount to a final outcome.    I 
understand Mr Ps disappointment that my final decision is less favourable - but thats  simply 
part of the process  which  allows either party to seek an ombudsmans  decision.
As the supplier of both the vehicle  and finance under the hire purchase agreement  BMF  is 
liable for ensuring  the vehicle is in satisfactory condition at the point  of supply. And whilst  I 
dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. So if I thought the vehicle wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply Id expect BMF to put things right.
Relevant legislation is also to be found  in the Consumer Rights  Act, 2015. This gives a 
consumer the right - in certain circumstances - to reject goods  or have them  repaired if they 
are not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  In summary, a consumer can usually  
reject goods  if faults are identified in the first thirty days  after supply. If the fault is identified 
after this period then the consumer is usually obliged to allow the supplier to be given an 
opportunity to repair any faults.
In this case Mr P identified faults in October  2017  - so he had the right to have  the vehicle 
repaired - but not at that stage the right to reject it. And as the vehicle was repaired - by early  
December - any obligation BMF owed  up to that point had been fulfilled. Im aware Mr P 
didnt consider the vehicle  to be safe - but Ive seen no evidence to support this. Indeed  the 
evidence is to the contrary.  As later report makes  clear the vehicle was fit to return  to use.
After As report, Mr P did agree to have the vehicle back - but due to various other  issues, 
including the ongoing litigation, T refused to release the vehicle.
Whilst this was regrettable, I dont think  BMF  can be held in any way responsible  for the 
ongoing legal dispute between Mr P and T. Im not sure on what  basis Mr P issued 
proceedings against T. Or what,  if any, advice  he sought before doing so. But it seems  to me 
that legal  action was always likely to fail.
The nature of a hire purchase agreement is that the goods subject of the agreement are 
purchased by the provider of credit - in this case BMF - from the dealer, T. BMF  then allow 
Mr P to use (hire)  the vehicle subject  to the payments  set out in the agreement being made.
But BMF retains ownership  of the vehicle until all the payments are made. So there is no 
contractual relationship between Mr P and T. If Mr P believed the vehicle not to be of 
satisfactory quality then any claim would have  been against BMF.
I think BMF should probably have  registered the complaint when Mr P first made contact - 
rather than simply  ask Mr P to take the matter  up with T. But it couldnt reasonably foresee 
he would  commence a court  case  against T. Particularly as T appears to be the wrong  
defendant.
I shant therefore  be making any award  in relation to the costs  of issuing the court case 
against T.
Ref: DRN17614685I think whats happened since has stemmed from a combination of Mr Ps (mistaken) belief 
he was able to reject the vehicle and the legal action.  Based on the evidence Ive seen I 
think Mr P should have accepted the vehicle back  after it had been repaired. This seems  to 
have been in December 2017  - prior to his issuing the court proceedings. Whilst Im aware 
he had doubts  about the vehicle - if these  had come to fruition hed have been  able to reject 
the vehicle at that stage.
Unfortunately - as often  is the way with legal cases - attitudes  hardened. During  the period 
from May 2018 onwards a number of attempts were made both by the investigator and BMF 
to try and resolve the situation. But at various  stages both T and Mr P rejected offers  of 
settlement. T would not release the vehicle  until its costs had been paid and the threat  of 
legal action had been withdrawn. And Mr P would not withdraw his legal action until his 
complaint had been fully settled in the manner he required. This state of affairs  remained 
until the vehicle  was finally returned  to Mr P in November 2018.
Now that the vehicle has been  returned  to Mr P Id hope the agreement  can continue in the 
way the parties  anticipated at the outset. And so it just remains for the level of redress to be 
determined.
In summary,  I find that the vehicle had been  repaired satisfactorily  by December 2017. And 
that BMF confirmed to Mr P that the vehicle was ready for collection on 12 January 2018.  
Mr P did not wish to have it returned  whilst  he had concerns  about  its safety  and there 
remained a dispute  over the costs of repair. 
BMF advised Mr P on 8 March that the charges for repairs had been  settled  and that he 
could collect the vehicle. But Mr P declined to do so. I dont think  at this stage Mr P had any 
reasonable ground on which to refuse  to accept the return of the vehicle. Whilst Mr P 
subsequently agreed to accept the vehicle back, after As report,  by then T had raised the 
issue of additional  costs and ongoing  litigation.
Its at least arguable that BMF should  not be responsible for anything  that happened  after 
the vehicle was initially repaired. It was an unwilling  and almost powerless observer from 
May 2018 onwards when it became clear the ongoing litigation between  T and Mr P - to 
which BMF  was not a party - was going to prove  intractable. And it made offers  to resolve  
the impasse which in my view were  reasonable. Particularly so as it was not responsible for 
the actions of T in retaining the vehicle.
In those circumstances I think the offer made by BMF on 12 October 2018,  through its 
solicitors, is fair and reasonable. And I shant be asking it to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding the complaint in part.
Im ordering  Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Ref: DRN176146861.Settle the storage costs with T and arrange for the release of the vehicle to Mr P. It is my 
understanding this has been  completed successfully.
2.Pay Mr P the costs of tax and insurance  on his replacement  vehicle up until May 2018 - 
and upon receipt of evidence of costs.
3. Refund the monthly instalments paid by Mr P between October 2017 and February 2018 
(inclusive).
4. Pay £200 compensation to Mr P for distress and inconvenience .
In respect of item 3 only BMF should  pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date 
of payments to 10 March  2018 inclusive. This being  the latest date by which I think  Mr P 
should have accepted the return of the vehicle.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1761468