K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M took out a credit card in December  1995.  She was sold the PPI in connection  with this 
credit card. Its unclear whether the PPI was taken out at the same  time  but in any event, it 
was sold by January  2000.
The PPI would have  cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  It 
would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mrs M was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs M was eligible for the PPI at the time of the sale.  In 
the absence of any evidence which shows that the PPI was taken out at a different time, I 
think its more likely  that the PPI would have  been taken out at the same time as the credit  
card. Given  Mrs Ms age, employment  and residence at the time of the sale,  I think  Mrs M 
would have been eligible. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs M that PPI was optional and needed her consent  before it 
could be applied to the account. Mrs M says it wasnt made clear  to that the policy was 
optional.
Lloyds have provided us with a sample application  form from 1995. This shows  that PPI 
would have presented as optional and that it would  only have been applied  to the account if 
the consumer  ticked to take it out. However,  Lloyds havent been able to confirm  how the 
policy was sold to Mrs M.
This is understandable given how long ago the PPI was sold. But what  it does mean is that 
because of the limited  information available from the time of the sale (both from Lloyds and 
also understandably from Mrs M), and given what I have seen in the sample application 
form, I cant say its more  likely that Mrs M wasnt made aware  the PPI was optional or that 
she didnt choose  to take it out. 
Lloyds say that they will treat this sale as an advised sale.  This holds them  to a higher bar 
compared to a non-advised sale and means they would have had to take adequate steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs M. I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps as they 
Ref: DRN18291072should have. But I do think  the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M. I say this because:
-Although I appreciate  what  Mrs M has told us about her entitlement to 6 months full 
pay followed by 6 months half pay from her employer, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this. It could have been particularly useful when Mrs Ms employee  sick 
pay reduced to half. It would also have paid out if she lost her job.
-Mrs M didnt appear to have been affected  by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
           policy  which would  have made  it difficult for her to make  a successful claim.
-Mrs M could have  cancelled the PPI at any time without facing a financial penalty if  
she no longer wanted  or needed  it.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs M at the 
time of the sale.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M, Lloyds also had to give her clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about  the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the
policy  so that she could make  an informed decision about whether  or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs M wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether  
better information would  have  put her off taking it out. And I dont think  it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons  I think the PPI was suitable for her.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mrs M this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1829107