K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the loans she took out through MYJAR  Limited  (MYJAR). She 
says MYJAR  mis-sold  her payday  loans.  
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
September 2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. MYJAR  has told us that, to 
bring this matter to a close,  it will accept the findings  of the provisional  decision. 
In response to the provisional decision Miss S provided some  further  comments  querying 
why the outcome on this case differs from one with a different lender who she says she took 
loans from around the same time.  
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Miss Ss comments  in relation to her other complaint, but in this case, I 
dont think these comments change  my mind as to why the first three loans are not upheld.
When, thinking about whether MYJAR  has done  anything wrong  we have to consider how 
much was being lent, what checks it carried  out and whether we think it was reasonable for 
MYJAR to have relied on the information  that it was being given. 
As I outlined  in the provisional decision, MYJAR  needed to take steps to ensure that it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. What  this means  is that MYJAR  needed to carry out proportionate checks 
before deciding whether it should provide a loan.  I set out how that could  take into account a 
range of different factors, and that in the early  stages of a lending relationship, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
So in this case, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect MYJAR to have  verified the 
information Miss S had provided about  her income  and expenditure by way of checking her 
bank statements for the first few loans. I say this because, at this time, MYJAR had no 
reason to do so.  
It is of course, possible as the lending relationship continued we would expect MYJAR to 
carry out further more  in-depth checks. And in this case, I think  that point was reached  by 
loan 4, when MYJAR  ought to have started  to verify the information Miss S was providing.  
And had MYJAR  done this, it wouldve seen that Miss S wasnt  in a position  to take on her 
later loans. 
There could be reasons to think that MYJAR needed  to start verifying Miss Ss financial 
position at an earlier point. For example, if we thought, MYJAR had cause for concern that 
the information it was provided  with, or the information that it saw in response to its credit  
checks warranted it doing so. But in this case,  based on what Ive seen, I dont think  MYJAR  
Ref: DRN14356752needed to have carried out further checks at the start of the lending relationship, when there 
was no indication of any wider financial difficulties. 
But I want to be clear, I am not saying that Miss S was actually in a better  financial  position 
at loan 1 compared to loan 4. Only that her wider financial position  wouldnt have been 
known to MYJAR until loan 4  at which point, for the reasons Ive explained in my 
provisional decision I dont think it shouldve carried on lending.  
I appreciate why Miss S may be disappointed by my decision about loans 1  3, and I 
understand why she may want to know more about why on her other case a slightly  different 
outcome was reached. But Im only able to comment on the actions of MYJAR in this 
individual case because  this is who the decision is against. So for the reasons given above, 
and in my provisional  decision  I still think MYJAR was wrong to have  provided  Miss S with 
loans 4  6. 
putting things right
It seems  based on MYJARs  response  to the provisional decision that the final loan hasnt 
been sold to a third party.  So in addition  to what MYJAR has already agreed  to do for loans 
5 and 6 it should also do the following:
refund  all the interest and charges paid by Miss S on loans 4 - 5, 
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges, from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ss credit  file about loans 4 - 6.
According to the statement of account MYJAR has provided there is a principal sum 
outstanding for loan 6. However,  when  working out the below it needs  to take into account all 
payments made by Miss S. So MYJAR should;
rework loan 6 applying all payments made  by Miss S as if they went towards  the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  MYJAR needs to make  sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amount Miss S has paid exceeds the amount she was lent, any 
further amounts  paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments that 
may have been made should  be refunded to Miss S with 8% simple  interest from the 
date the overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
In the event  that what Miss S has paid towards  loan 6 is less than what  she was lent, 
MYJAR can deduct this amount from the compensation that it needs to pay Miss S 
for loans 4 and 5. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN14356753my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Miss S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14356754EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss S has complained  about the loans she took out through MYJAR Limited (MYJAR). She says 
MYJAR mis-sold her payday  loans.  
background
Miss S took 6 loans from MYJAR between July 2017 and May 2018. Based on the information Ive 
been provided, it seems  Miss S had some problems  repaying her final loan, and an outstanding 
balance remains.  
A summary  of Miss Ss borrowing, based on the information provided to us from MYJAR,  can be 
found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment  
datecontractual 
number of 
instalmentslargest 
repayment 
amount
1 £150.00 21/07/2017 04/09/2017 3 £80.29
2 £1,000.00 04/09/2017 05/10/2017 12 £150.58
3 £300.00 23/10/2017 26/10/2017 3 £159.45
4 £1,200.00 26/10/2017 11/01/2018 12 £185.49
5 £250.00 25/03/2018 18/05/2018 3 £121.95
6 £700.00 20/05/2018 outstanding 6 £211.31
Our adjudicator thought MYJAR had made an error when  it provided Miss S with her fifth and sixth 
loans because, by this time it shouldve carried out further checks. And had MYJAR carried  out further 
checks, it wouldve seen that Miss S couldnt afford these loans. 
MYJAR accepted the adjudicators assessment of the case, and made  an offer to settle the case  in 
line with the adjudicators  recommendation.  
However, Miss S didnt agree with the findings.  Miss S made a number of points,  including:
She was using other short term loan providers before  loans 5 and 6
Miss Ss credit file results shouldve  led MYJAR to make further enquires with her from loan 2
MYJAR shouldve asked  for bank statements to validate her income and expenditure  and 
Repaying a loan early isnt a sign that there are no financial difficulties. 
No agreement could be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a decision. 
Loans 5 and 6 are no longer in dispute, as both parties accept these should  be upheld. So my 
decision will focus on loans 1  4. 
Ref: DRN14356755my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Having thought about the above, as well as the evidence available to me, Ive provisionally  decided to 
partly uphold  Miss Ss complaint. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when MYJAR lent to Miss S. The FCAs 
Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related regulated 
activities. It sets out the rules and guidance  specific to consumer credit providers,  such as MYJAR. 
I am not quoting all the specific regulations  here, because  I would expect  MYJAR to be familiar with 
these through  previous ombudsman  decisions, particularly recent decisions, which set these  rules out 
in more detail.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would likely 
need to be flexible. That is to say, what  is sufficient  for one consumer might not be for another, or 
indeed what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same 
consumer in other  circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.  Certain factors  might point 
to the fact that MYJAR should fairly  and reasonably  have done  more  to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR  was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay  her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss S could  sustainably make her 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ref: DRN14356756This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being  without undue difficulties,  and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make them  without 
borrowing further. 
MYJAR has told this service it carried out detailed and extensive checks  before agreeing to lend to 
Miss S. It says it asked Miss S about her employment status, income and her monthly  expenses. As 
well as using its own internal scoring systems to decide whether the loans were affordable.   
For the first three loans, I agree with the adjudicators reasoning as to why MYJAR  didnt make an 
error by providing these  loans. And Ive explained why below. 
I accept that Miss Ss circumstances werent  reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information MYJAR obtained from her or the credit checks.  And Miss Ss actual financial 
position might  well have been apparent  if further information  such as bank statements had a copy  of 
her actual credit file had been  obtained.  
But MYJAR could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time.  And as 
it was in the early stages  of a lending relationship with Miss S, I dont think  it had reached  the stage 
where there was a greater risk of these loans being  unsustainable  for Miss S. In these  circumstances, 
I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to verify the information provided. 
There also wasnt  anything in the information  MYJAR gathered up to this point to give it cause for 
concern that either  the loan wasnt affordable or sustainable for Miss S in any other way.  MYJAR 
relied on the information it was provided  with and, given the amount of the repayments involved, 
together with Miss Ss declared income and outgoings I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is 
the case, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint about loans 1 - 3. 
I know Miss Ss actual credit file may have indicated  that MYJAR shouldnt have provided the loans. 
But MYJAR has provided the results of the credit checks that it carried  out. It may help, if I explain  
that the information  MYJAR saw may not be the same that is visible on Miss Ss actual credit report. 
This is because MYJAR  may only ask the credit  reference agencies for certain information. So for 
example, MYJAR could just have gathered information about the number of delinquent accounts.  
But what MYJAR  cant do it gather information from the credit reference agencies  and then either not 
take on board  what it is saying, or still provide the loan whether the information  suggested that the 
loan may not be sustainable.  
However, in this case, having reviewed the credit file data MYJAR has given me, there wasnt 
anything in the data which ought to have  led it to automatically decline the loan application or to have 
prompted it to make further enquires with Miss S. So based solely on the information  MYJAR 
gathered and saw, Im not in a position to uphold  loans 1  3. 
However, I dont think MYJAR  carried out proportionate checks  before loan 4 was approved. And Ill 
explain why below. 
Miss Ss next loan was her forth loan in as many months, and I think, by now she was showing  signs 
of having wider  financial  problems. All of Miss Ss previous loans were due to run for a lot longer  than 
they actually did. For example Miss Ss second loan was for a significant  sum of £1,000 to be repaid 
over 12 instalments, however, this loan was repaid around a month later.  And a similar pattern,  is also 
visible for loans 1 and 3. And I think this shouldve given  MYJAR  cause for concern, as these loans 
werent being  repaid in accordance  with the credit agreements.   
Ref: DRN14356757So when Miss S returned  for her fourth loan in a little over 4 months and had come back  for her 
largest loan to date, I think MYJAR shouldve had some concerns about  whether  Miss S would 
actually repay  the loan as MYJAR  had intended. So, in my opinion, there was a significant risk that 
this loan wasnt  sustainable  for her. 
Had MYJAR carried out proportionate  checks when considering whether to provide loan 4, it wouldve 
likely seen the following; 
that Miss S was having wider money management problems. I think MYJAR wouldve likely 
seen that Miss S was spending significant amounts each month on betting  websites. And on 
top of this, she still had her regular  credit commitments to make as well. So I dont  think that 
MYJAR couldve  reasonably believed that Miss S would be able to sustainably  make the 
payment for this loan as well as for loans 5 and 6.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and MYJAR should put things right as set out below,  in 
addition to the offer MYJAR has already made in relation  to loans 5 and 6. 
Ref: DRN1435675