K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £463.94  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £134.09  with the PPI costing  an additional £15.55 making  the total 
monthly repayment £149.64.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  involuntary  unemployment  and 
death subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Cs monthly loan 
repayment for as long as Mr C was off work sick or until the loan was paid off in the event of 
a successful accident or sickness claim and 12 months in the event of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a security guard. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any contractual sick pay and didnt have  any other  means of repaying  his loan should he 
have been unable to work. Mr C hasnt told us about any redundancy pay entitlement  he had 
but looking at his length of service I think he would have been  entitled to redundancy pay 
equivalent to about a months salary. Mr C has said he was in good health at the time of the 
sale. 
Barclays has sent us information to show that the loan account closed in 2002
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr C about  the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN16468452The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
because Barclays upheld  two other  complaints he made about PPI in what  he feels were  
similar circumstances. Mr C doesnt  understand why this complaint is not also upheld. I dont 
know why Barclays upheld Mr Cs other complaints, but my decision is made independently  
and would not be influenced by Barclays decisions. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN16468453Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN16468454-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
I dont have a copy of Mr Cs original application  form,  which is understandable given over 
20 years  have passed since the sale.  But Barclays has provided  a sample copy  of the 
application form which was in use at the time.  Im satisfied  this reflects the application form 
Mr C would have completed. The form has a separate section for PPI and offers the 
customer a clear choice between taking it and not taking it. Mr C says that the PPI was just 
part of the package when he took the loan. But I dont think  thats  the case  when  looking at 
the form. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Both Barclays says that advice was provided during this sale.
 
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr C with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C. It seems  Mr C cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting 20 years ago. The adviser  likely  had some limited 
information about Mr Cs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr C would have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Barclays considered whether Mr C had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr C given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN16468455-Mr C had a need for the policy  he would not have received any contractual sick pay 
if he was unable  to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be 
limited and he didnt  have any savings he could fall back on. The policy  would have 
helped Mr C manage the consequences  were  he unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr C.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Cs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr C cancelled the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mr C had plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which 
might suggest a need to repay  the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr C was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability.) I have reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Mr C would have  taken out the policy  without any sense  of what  
the policy was. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example I havent  seen  the loan agreement so I dont  know if it shows the total cost of the 
policy over the term of the loan, including interest  - or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr C agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C Im not persuaded Barclays did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr C. Im not persuaded Barclays gave Mr C all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN16468456-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Barclayss shortcomings have  on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr C, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr C would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN16468457As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr C knew  he was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy, it doesnt appear  Barclays told him the total cost of the policy  over the loan 
term including the interest. 
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over 
three years, and the interest would not have made  the policy  cost significantly more  than 
Mr C realised, I dont think it likely  the missing cost information would have affected Mr Cs 
decision to buy the policy in his circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr C would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which they agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Barclays made clear exactly what  Mr C would get back  in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Cs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy Mr C bought, so I dont know 
exactly what the terms were. Instead,  Ive thought  about the terms which were commonly 
seen in other similar policies on sale around the same time. Possibly the most significant 
differences between  what  Mr C thought he had bought and what  he actually  bought would 
likely have been the following:
The policy likely excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms that 
Mr C knew about  or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy possibly contained limitations  on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy likely limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr 
C wasnt a permanent  employee;
The policy possibly had a requirement  that in order to be eligible for a disability  claim 
 Mr C be unable to do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which  his 
experience, education  or training reasonable qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN16468458I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions may have been more onerous than 
Mr C might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  he would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr C from taking out the policy,  Mr C, in his circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it out.
If Mr C had known he could possible only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his 
job and any similar job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified for, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept it may 
have given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr C was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr C made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr C 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN16468459represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1646845