K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 1996  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  Although  the mortgage was in joint 
names the PPI policy covered Mr C only, not Mrs C. 
As so much time has passed since the sale the business isnt able to provide the exact 
policy document from the time. So, I have used  the key facts  document from before the sale 
as well as the one from around  the same time and a policy document from before the sale to 
check the terms of the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Initially it offered to repay  £450  per month. Later  on, in June 1997  
the monthly benefit increased to £600  a month towards Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  balance in 
the event of a successful  claim - it cost £30.72 a month. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a customer service manager. He has told us he had 
been in his role for a long time and was entitled  to 12 months full sick pay. Mr C also told us 
he was entitled  to death in service benefit  worth twice his yearly salary. Mr C also explained  
that he would have had at least three months worth of redundancy pay if he lost his job 
which could have been used to make  his repayments. Mr C has said he had a broken leg in 
1980  16 years prior to the sale and in around  2001 he suffered stress and anxiety. 
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
 
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs C 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN11826602The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN11826603The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NatWest at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
NatWest was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NatWest gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN11826604Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and NatWest, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
NatWest has been  able to provide a copy of the mortgage offer which states: You have 
selected a monthly  benefit of £450 under  Mortgage  Repayment Protector  Insurance. The 
monthly premium will be £27.00. You will pay only half of this amount for the first 12 months. 
This offer was signed  and dated  by both Mr and Mrs C. 
It also looks like a separate direct debit  mandate was completed in the name of Mr C only for 
the insurance and this was signed in April 1996.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says advice  wasnt provided  during this sale. Mr and Mrs C say the PPI was taken 
out in a meeting but they havent  said whether advice was provided or not.   Looking  at what  
happened when  NatWest sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. The paperwork Ive seen doesnt indicate  that Mr and Mrs C spoke to anyone  or that 
a tailored recommendation was provided for the PPI.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr C 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN11826605Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Cs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs C suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NatWest  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs C. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs C would have still taken out the policy, had NatWest  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs C say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr C being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs C chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs C thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs C has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear NatWest told them the exact premium at the point 
Ref: DRN11826606they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs C would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with NatWest  at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NatWest  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs C would get 
back in return in the event Mr C made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Cs expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  and I can see the monthly benefit  was increased after they had taken it out. 
So, at that point I think its likely they would have  realised  what they could get back  if they 
made a successful claim.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:  As I explained  after so much  time 
has passed and the exact policy document isnt available, Im using the key facts document  
from before  the sale and one from around  the same time as the sale,  as well as a policy 
document from before the sale to check the policy terms. I think  these documents  most likely 
represent the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. 
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr C had been  treated 
for, or had advice  for, during the 12 months  before  the policy start date and which  
recurred in the first 12 months of the policy. And any chronic  or continuing  disease  
that Mr C knew he had when the policy started;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
attend the occupation at which Mr C was gainfully employed  immediately before the 
period of claim or any other  occupation  for which Mr C was fitted by knowledge or 
training.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs C pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr C was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Mr C told us about a broken leg 
but theres nothing  to suggest this caused ongoing problems and this had happened many  
Ref: DRN11826607years before the sale took place and Mr C has also told us about stress and anxiety, he 
suffered around  2001 which was after the date of the sale.  He told NatWest he couldnt 
really remember when  he suffered from stress but in any event with no medical condition 
recurring in the 12 months before he took out the policy   or if it happened afterwards Mr C 
wasnt likely caught by this exclusion. And Mr C was in permanent employment.  So, I still 
think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C was unable  to attend 
the occupation at which he was gainfully employed  immediately before  the period of claim or 
any other occupation for which  he was fitted  by knowledge or training, it might have played 
into their thinking about  what they would have done.  And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although its possible  they may not have been overly concerned given 
that if Mr C was unable  (through disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances  that 
he would  be able to take up a similar  occupation  would also,  in all probability,  be limited.
NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but although Mr C has told us he would have received 12 months full sick pay, I have 
thought about what hes told us. I can see hed been in his job for a number of years but 12 
months full pay is quite unusual and I think its more  likely hed have received six months  full 
sick pay followed by six months  half pay and the 12 months  that the policy  covered  would  
have been paid out in addition to any sick pay he was entitled to.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs C be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Cs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr C was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN11826608the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude NatWest should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think NatWest misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs C and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that NatWest  had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN11826609my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1182660