K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC allowed  a payment to be made  when there wasnt 
enough money in his account to cover  it. 
background
In May 2018  Lloyds  allowed £97.92 to be paid out of Mr As account to a retailer.  There  
wasnt enough money in the account  to cover this payment and the account went into an 
unauthorised overdraft. Mr A wasnt happy  with the retailers work and wants this money 
back. He also says Lloydss staff were rude to him and he had to make  many phone  calls 
leaving him £200 out of pocket. Mr A wants compensation and a refund of the £97.92.
Lloyds said in its final response that itd clearly explained to Mr A that it needed  more  
information to determine if a chargeback could be made and he had only 120 days from the 
date of payment  to make a claim. Mr A said he hadnt received this letter and it took him over 
three months to chase  things up. Lloyds  says thats  not something it can be held 
responsible for. There also werent  any service issues. Each time Mr A phoned  it explained 
what information it required and when it was needed by. Some  calls had been terminated 
after itd explained  things as theyd become unproductive.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Mr A gave the retailer his card details and consented to it taking the payment even 
though there wasnt enough money in the account to cover it. Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong allowing the payment to go through. 
Lloyds handled the situation well when Mr A initially made contact. Theres nothing 
showing hed asked  Lloyds not to contact  him by post or why it took him more  than there  
months to contact it to say he hadnt received its letter.  
Lloyds told Mr A what  he needed  to do to recover his money  including  when he was still 
within the 120 day chargeback time limit. He cant hold Lloyds accountable for him not 
providing the required information in time.  And Lloyds  wasnt obliged to call Mr A to 
remind him to do so. 
He also cant say Lloyds provided  a poor service  to Mr A. There were  a number of 
lengthy calls but this wasnt Lloyds fault. And he cant  recommend it should  refund the 
cost of the calls or pay compensation to Mr A as hed like.
Mr A doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.  
I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by allowing the payment of £97.92  to go through on 
Mr As debit  card even though it put his account into an unauthorised overdraft. 
Ref: DRN19080742Its clear Lloyds  advised Mr A on number  of occasions and at some length, about how to go 
about seeking to recover his £97.92. Although on some occasions the way Mr A conducted 
the calls clearly made this very difficult or perhaps  only partly successful. Lloyds explained 
Mr A would need to give some additional information  so it could dispute the transaction  and 
that in line with the rules governing guaranteed debit card transactions  it would need this 
within 120 days of the payment being  made. But unfortunately  despite this Mr A didnt 
provide it in time.
Its unfortunate if Mr A didnt receive  Lloyds  final response letter which  also explained  
things. But theres  nothing to show he told Lloyds not to write  to him. And although I 
understand Mr As frustration I cant reasonably  hold Lloyds responsible  if he didnt receive  
the post it sent to his recorded address.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Lloyds has done  anything wrong. And I cant 
fairly or reasonably require it to do any more  than its already done, including refunding the 
£97.92, paying compensation for distress and inconvenience or refunding  £200  towards  the 
cost of the phone  calls,  as Mr A would like.
Although I recognise  Mr As strength of feeling  I dont see any compelling reason  to change 
the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1908074