K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs O say Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Although the policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), Lloyds is now responsible 
for this complaint  so the complaint has been  set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Lloyds in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Os case.
From the records Ive been  given by Lloyds, Mr and Mrs O mortgage started in 1997.  They  
then took out four further advances as part of the main borrowing between  2000 and 2006. 
Lloyds say that PPI was only sold on the further borrowing Mr and Mrs O took out in 2000 
when taking out what was branded a Homeowner Loan. 
Lloyds say it doesnt have any paperwork from the sale for the PPI. It has however given me 
copies of a number of application  forms including for the loan in 2000,  and none  of them 
show PPI was sold. Lloyds has however  given  me a copy of one of its internal forms that 
wouldve likely been used by one of its advisors  for the 2000 further borrowing application.  
On it I can see the advisor has crossed a box for PPI. 
This isnt a document that was signed by Mr and Mrs O so I wont  be relying  on it as part of 
any evidence of any PPI sales  discussion that took place. But given it shows PPI was taken 
out, Ill accept PPI was sold alongside  the 2000  further borrowing. I havent  seen anything 
else to show PPI was sold alongside  the initial 1997 borrowing or any of the other further  
advance loans. 
So to be clear, my decision is only considering  whether Mr and Mrs O were mis-sold PPI on 
their further  advance loan taken  out in 2000.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
As Ive already  said, Lloyds have given me a copy of Mr and Mrs Os mortgage  application  
form. But it doesnt have  any paperwork from the PPI sale itself. This is understandable 
given how long ago the sale took place. 
Mr and Mrs O say that they didnt realise  PPI had been added in 2000 to their further 
advance loan. Lloyds  had to make it clear  the PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs O 
agreed to take it. Neither partys been  able to give us much detail about how the PPI was 
sold. But because of this Ive not seen  enough to say its likely Lloyds did do things to make 
Mr and Mrs O think  the PPI wasnt optional. Or that they didnt agree to take it at the time.
I note Mr and Mrs O question that if they had wanted and therefore consented to the PPI, 
theyd have taken  it out on the main mortgage borrowing in 1997; and on all or some of the 
other further advances they took out. But like Ive said,  I have  little or no information for the 
Ref: DRN135531722000 PPI sale,  and I dont know what was discussed  about PPI  if at all  on any of the 
other borrowing. So that means  I dont think what Mr and Mrs O have said about this enough 
in of itself for me to conclude Lloyds didnt make them aware they had a chose  and 
importantly, given the nature of their complaint, that they didnt choose to take out PPI in 
2000. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Ive taken note of what  Mrs O 
has said about her good  employer sick pay. But PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to this. I 
also noted what Mr and Mrs O have said about having endowment, life, critical illness and 
in-service death cover. But the PPI provided a different type of cover and benefit. So, 
weighing everything  up, I think the policy still offered useful protection for Mr and Mrs O.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been   including about its costs. But it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs O have said  including what theyve said about 
family helping out and their substantive means to do so. But help from others  cant  be 
guaranteed, no matter  how well intentioned it is. So these points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs O some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs O paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1355317