K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he is unhappy  with the service  provided by CMC Markets UK Plc 
(CMC) while trading  contracts for difference (CFDs).
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019  which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In this I set out why I didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  And I gave both parties 
an opportunity to make further comments or send further evidence before I reached  my final 
decision. 
Mr B said that, although he was disappointed, he accepted my decision. CMC Markets said 
it had no further  points to add on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset  to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But as neither party  has provided 
anything new, I see no reason to change my conclusions. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18707932copy of provisional decision
complaint and background
Mr B complains that he is unhappy with the service provided by CMC Markets  UK plc (CMC) while 
trading contracts for difference (CFDs).
In October 2013, Mr B opened a CFD account with CMC.  He applied  for the account  online.  He paid 
funds into the account and began to trade.
Mr B says that he incurred losses through trading and got into debt as hed used his credit card to 
fund many of his trades. In November 2016, Mr B informed CMC that he had a gambling problem  and 
closed his account.
Mr B has complained that:
CMC  allowed him to open a trading  account without completing a credit  check.
That CMC  allowed Mr B to continue trading despite it being largely funded by credit cards.
That account reviews  did not take into account Mr Bs financial situation.
That the trading fees were not made clear.
That CMC  did not send daily or monthly statements  to him.
That it allowed  Mr B take positions  (including  squared positions) that resulted in increased 
trading fees where  there was no effective trade in play.
That he was persistently  targeted by CMCs sales team  including being  contacted  after hed 
informed it he had a gambling  problem. 
CMC didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Its said that:
It was under no obligation to carry out a credit  check as it wasnt a credit provider.
When Mr B opened  his account he confirmed hed read a risk warning  document  that 
informed him he should not finance his trades  on credit.
Mr B confirmed his financial  position  with it at the time of application  and at each annual 
review.
The trading fees were  made  clear on its website  and platform and Mr B was sent his account 
history and statements.
Mr Bs account history  was available  online at any time. Alternatively  it says Mr B could have 
called its client services  team at any time if hed wanted  a hard copy  statement.
As an execution-only provider of CFDs, it does not offer any financial advice and any decision 
to trade was Mr Bs.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt think  his complaint should  be upheld.  Mr B 
disagreed with this and referred his complaint  to an ombudsman for a decision.
An ombudsman issued a provisional decision saying that she wasnt minded to uphold        Mr Bs 
complaint. She gave both parties the opportunity to provide further comments  or evidence they 
wished her to consider before she reached her final decision.
Mr B disagreed with the ombudsmans  findings and he made a data subject access  (DSAR) request  
to CMC. The information from the DSAR  was subsequently sent to our service to be reviewed. As the 
ombudsman who issued the provisional  decision  to Mr B has since left the service, Mr Bs complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. This includes the information from the DSAR.
Ref: DRN18707933Having done so, I dont  currently intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. And Ill explain why. 
Im aware that the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) is taking steps to change  the rules applying  to 
CFD providers. But to be fair to CMC, I need to consider the rules in place at the time of the events  Mr 
B is complaining of. 
Opening of account
CMC says it provided the CFDs to Mr B on an execution-only basis. This means that CMC carried 
out transactions at Mr Bs request without giving any advice. Having  reviewed  the documentation,  
emails and phone calls provided, Im satisfied that what CMC has told us about this is correct.
As it wasnt giving Mr B advice about the trades, CMC didnt need  to check that they were suitable for 
Mr B. But it needed to give Mr B clear information about how CFD trading worked,  and what  the risks 
were, to allow him to make an informed choice
CFDs are classed  as complex instruments by the FCA. This means  that CMC  had an obligation to 
assess whether  the investment was appropriate for Mr B. The rules regarding this can be found  in the 
FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook COBS 10.2.
COBS 10.2.4R  says A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided  by a client unless  it is aware  
that the information  is manifestly  out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.
COBS 10.2.6G  says depending on the circumstances,  a firm may be satisfied that the clients  
knowledge alone is sufficient  for him to understand the risks involved  in a product or service. Where 
reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience
This doesnt mean that Mr B needed to have  traded  CFDs  before he opened  his CMC account. But 
CMC needed find out about Mr Bs knowledge, experience and understanding of the risks involved 
before allowing him to do so.
CFD has sent us a copy of the application  form Mr B completed online when he opened his CMC 
account. In this Mr B said that he was employed in financial services,  his annual income  was from 
£20,000 - £49,000 and he had £1  £19,999 of savings and investments. 
Mr B said that he didnt  have experience in exchange traded derivatives but hed occasionally traded 
in shares and OTC derivatives . 
For the question on professional/educational details  Mr B said he held other professional  or 
academic qualifications in a numerate or financial services-related field. 
Mr B also answered yes to all five questions in the section understanding features and risks.
Im satisfied that CMC did what it was required  to do to determine  if it was appropriate for   Mr B to be 
allowed to trade CFDs. And I can see that Mr B passed CMCs appropriateness check based on the 
information hed given it.
Ive also considered if CMC  gave Mr B clear enough information about how CFDs work  and the risks 
involved. CFDs are leveraged products where consumers  can lose more  than their initial deposit. And 
CMC needed to give Mr B clear warnings about this.
When he opened his account Mr B had to agree  to CMCs CFD Terms of Business and Risk Warning 
notice for CFDs documents. These documents explain how CFDs work and the associated  risks. 
Ref: DRN18707934The terms  of business document begins with the wording:
A CFD is a contract  for difference. Investing in CFDs or other financial derivatives products carries a 
high level of risk to your capital. The prices of CFDs may change to your disadvantage very quickly. It 
is possible to lose more than your initial  investment  and you may be required to make  further 
payments. These  products may not be appropriate for all investors.  Therefore, you should  ensure  you 
understand the risks involved and seek independent advice if necessary .
Section 5 of the risk warning notice also explains how you may lose more than your deposit. 
I can see that CMC  also gave Mr B further risks warnings  after hed opened his account. In the footer  
of its emails it says that CFDs are  leveraged products  and carry  a high level of risk to your capital 
as prices may move rapidly against you. It is possible to lose more  than your initial investment and 
you may be required  to make further payments.  These products may not be suitable  for all clients 
therefore ensure you understand  the risks and seek independent advice .
Mr B has complained that CMC didnt do a credit check before allowing him to open his account.  But 
CMC had no obligation  to do so. As an execution-only  provider of CMCs, its obligations were  to 
assess appropriateness and provide clear  information about how CFDs worked  and the risks 
involved. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that CMC  met these  obligations when 
opening Mr Bs CFD account  and allowing him to trade.
Use of credit cards
Mr B says that, having opened his account, his main source of funds was from his credit card. And the 
fact that CMC allowed  him to use his credit card to fund his transactions  in this way is at the heart of 
his complaint. 
In the other ombudsmans provisional  decision  of February 2019,  she referred  to wording in the risk 
notice document Mr B confirmed hed read when he opened his account which  says:
If you fund your trades with us using credit (e.g. a bank loan or credit card),  your risk will be 
significantly increased,  and if you make a loss using that money,  you will still have to repay your 
borrowing including interest. Therefore, you must not rely on being  able to redeem borrowed funds 
with any profits from trades with us.
My colleague said that if Mr B had informed  CMC  that the source  of his funds would be borrowing it 
would have led to Mr Bs automatic rejection  and she hadnt  seen anything  to make her think  this 
would not have been the case. She went  on to say that she didnt think  it would be fair to hold CMC 
responsible for Mr B acting  in breach  of the terms and conditions of his agreement  with CMC.
Mr B disagreed with this in his response to the provisional decision. He says that CMC would have 
known he was depositing money into his trading  account via credit cards.  And hes questioned why it 
wouldnt have closed his account if hed been in breach of CMCs terms and conditions.
I havent seen anything to suggest that CMC wouldve been  aware that Mr B intended to use 
borrowing to finance  his trades when his account was opened.
But I have a different interpretation of the wording in the risk notice to that of my colleague. I dont 
think that it implies  that a customer  wasnt allowed  to use their credit card or would be in breach of 
CMCs terms  and conditions if they did so. Rather its a warning  that a consumer was at risk of getting 
into debt if they chose to use credit to fund their trades.  
The CFD Terms of Business document confirms  that trading using a credit card was allowed. Clause 
5.3.7 says if you make a payment by debit  card or credit  card and/or withdraw money  from your 
Account, we may charge an administration fee to process your payments. 
Ref: DRN18707935While CMC might have been aware that Mr B was using his credit card to pay into his trading 
account, it wouldnt  have  had access to information regarding Mr Bs credit card balance  or indeed 
other information regarding Mr Bs financial  situation such  as savings he might have had. The fact that 
Mr B was using his credit  card to make deposits  into his trading account, wouldnt necessarily  indicate  
that he was having to borrow money to finance his trades.  He could have  been using his credit card 
for convenience and paying  off his balance each month.
So I dont think that CMC did anything wrong in allowing Mr B to use his credit card to pay into his 
trading account. And I also dont think that his doing so would have made  CMC  aware that Mr B was 
getting into financial difficulty.
Fees and costs
Mr B says he believes  there was a lack of transparency around trading fees and costs.  He says that if 
every cost had been visible to him via the mobile  app and hed received regular statements he would 
have managed his account  differently (incurring  less costs) and maybe even closed his account  
sooner. 
CMC says that account history and daily/monthly  statements were  available for Mr B to access  online 
and he could  also have  requested hard copies from its client services. It says fees and costs are 
displayed on its website,  the platform  and specific to the trade,  on the order ticket.
Mr B has said that he could  only access information from the mobile app as he didnt have  access  to 
a PC. But from the emails and call recordings, I can see that Mr B asked CMC  for further information  
regarding his account (including about  costs  and fees) on several  occasions. And CMC always 
responded promptly with the information hed asked for. So I do believe that if Mr B had asked for 
more regular  statements to have been sent to him, CMC  would most likely have done  so.
Trade positions
Mr B has complained that CMC allowed  him to square off his losing positions  resulting in the doubling 
of trading fees where there was no effective trade in play.
CMC says that as an execution-only  provider of CFDs, it did not offer any financial advice and any 
decision to trade was Mr Bs own. It says Mr B confirmed that he understood the risks involved in this 
type of trading when he opened his account with it.
Ive already said above why I believe  CMC was an execution-only provider of CFDs. This means that 
it didnt give Mr B any advice regarding the suitability of his trades.  If CMC had given Mr B advice, it 
would be responsible for ensuring the transaction was suitable.  But having  reviewed  the email 
correspondence and listened to the phone calls between Mr B and CMC, I havent found any 
evidence that CMC gave Mr B advice about his trades.
I can also see that the risk warning Mr B agreed to having read when he opened his account  says:
We do not provide  investment, tax, regulatory or financial advice relating to investments or possible 
trades in investments. Any information we provide to you is purely factual and does not take into 
account your personal circumstances  (for example  information about trading processes  or minimising 
potential risks.) Therefore, you may wish to obtain independent professional advice from a suitably 
qualified advisor on any investment, financial, legal, regulatory, tax or similar  matter before trading  
with us.
So it was up to Mr B to decide for himself whether  or not his trades were  right for him. And I cant say 
that CMC  did anything wrong  in allowing him to make trades that might not have been suitable  for 
him.
Ref: DRN18707936Sales team  actions
Mr B has complained that he was persistently  targeted by CMCs sales team who wanted to retain 
him as a valued customer and did their utmost to drive sales. He says that CMC sent him daily emails  
about trading opportunities and he was closely  monitored by CMCs  sales team who invited him to 
drinks parties and hosted sporting events. Hes told us that one of the drinks party invitations was 
emailed to him after he closed  his account. 
CMC has told us that the daily emails  Mr B has referred to was an opt-in service  that he specifically 
requested. It says Mr B could have disabled  this or requested not to be contacted. 
I can see that the majority of the emails sent to Mr B were  price  alert emails saying  that his price 
alert has been triggered . This does seem to suggest that Mr B requested these  emails be sent to him. 
So I think CMC is likely  to have stopped sending these if Mr B had requested it to. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that he did.
From the call recordings,  Im aware that Mr B was offered hospitality tickets for a tennis tournament.  
Mr B said he couldnt attend but hed be very keen to be invited to any future events near where he 
lived. Theres  also an email from Mr B to CMC from August 2015 where  he says; If any free stuff 
comes up in the north west give me a shout. Gutted I couldnt make the tennis event the other month.
I can also see that an email  was sent to Mr B in January 2017 (around  two months after he closed his 
account) referring to a gift CMC had sent just before  Christmas and reminding him he could  get in 
touch if there was anything CMC could assist with. 
CMC has told us that the reason for this is that Christmas gifts are arranged months in advance  and a 
bulk delivery had been organised before Mr B had closed his account. The email in January was a 
follow-up to all clients whod had a delivery  sent to him. Its also said that Mr B had been placed on a 
restricted list  meaning that he would never have been able to trade through  CMC again   when  he 
closed his account.  
I appreciate that it might have been distressing for Mr B to receive an email from CMC after hed 
closed his account.  But Ive no reason to doubt CMCs explanation for this or what  its said about 
refusing to allow Mr B to trade  if he had wanted to do so. And although CMC offered Mr B a couple  of 
gifts to thank  him for his trade, I dont think it did anything to pressure Mr B to continue trading.
Ive also listened to the recording  of when  Mr B phoned to close his account. In this Mr B says he 
wants to close his account  and the CMC representative answers yes of course, I can process  that 
now. Mr B then asks for a blocking exclusion because he realises  hes a problem  gambler. And the 
CMC representative replies that hell put that on and it means     Mr  B wont be able to open an 
account in the future because hed be on a restricted list.
So I  dont think CMC applied  any pressure on Mr B to continue trading,  bearing in mind that it agreed 
to close  his account even  before hed mentioned his gambling problem. And it took appropriate action 
once Mr B had made  him aware of it.   
Im very sorry to hear about  Mr Bs financial and personal difficulties. And I wish him all the best as he 
attempts to get his finances  back on track. But having considered all of his points very carefully,  I 
havent concluded that CMC did anything wrong.  It follows that I dont  intend to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN1870793