K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs F says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs F opened a store  card account  in a shop in 1999. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Fs store  card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase and price protection cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he said 
that Mrs F suffered from several medical  conditions when she took the PPI out, which 
wouldnt have been covered by it. And he didnt  think Mrs F would have  taken the policy if 
FICL had made it clear to her that she wouldnt be able to claim for those conditions. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. This is because Mrs Fs told us that she suffered 
from several medical conditions, which shed been  diagnosed with before she took the policy 
out. And the policy wouldnt  have paid out for claims resulting from any condition which 
Mrs F knew about when the policy started.
Ive taken into account all FICLs comments, including  about how much  Mrs Fs conditions 
were an issue for her at the time she took out the PPI. I accept that Mrs F had been 
diagnosed with some  of the conditions many  years before she took out the PPI. But shed 
already had time off work for some  of them. And given the number and nature of conditions, 
I think its likely that shed  have been  concerned that she might  need to take a significant  
amount of time off resulting from one or more of them  in the future.  So I think  there was a 
risk that the policy wouldnt have paid out when Mrs F needed  it most.  And I think that if 
shed realised this, its unlikely that shed  have decided to take it out.
Ref: DRN18328292putting things right
FICL should put Mrs F in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs F would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs F would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs F would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs F paid.  And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs F would 
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs F what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs F that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance  Company Limited should put 
things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832829