K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about Sequence  Financial Management Limiteds advice in between  
June 2016 and August 2017.  He says that as a result of its incorrect assessment of the tax 
benefits of the advice,  he incurred financial losses. 
background
In May 2016  Mr C wrote to Sequence to ask for some more  information around setting up 
trusts for his grandchildren.  He received a reply in June 2016 from his adviser  at Sequence 
which explained the relative benefits of a plan called the Flexible Inheritor Plan. In short, this 
would allow Mr C to make a gift into trust for any beneficiaries  current or future and reduce 
the Inheritance  Tax (IHT) due on death   but still retain the option of taking annual capital 
payments without infringing the gift with reservation rules. 
The adviser explained that the gift was treated as a Potentially Exempt Transfer (PET) 
which meant that the original sum would be fully outside the estate  after seven years,  and so 
would any investment growth. The adviser  explained  that the maximum investment would be 
£325,000 plus any unused gift allowances. The adviser confirmed that he could still use his 
discretionary manager (which Ill refer to as Q) to manage the investments within  the plan. 
There was some further correspondence  around  the fees that Sequence would charge. On 
5 July 2016 Mr C confirmed that he had instructed Q to convert some of his holdings in an 
offshore bond  and his SIPP to cash in order to have  the funds available  and as it looked  a 
good time to do it.  
Shortly after this, Mr C met with an adviser from Sequence. The notes of that meeting 
suggest that he wanted to withdraw as much as possible tax efficiently from the existing 
global bond, and fully utilise his 5% withdrawals.  He also wanted to use the remainder of his 
wifes basic rate income tax band,  and reinvest £300,000 into a Flexible Inheritor Plan to 
give £50,000 to his and his wifes 6 grandchildren. 
A document  was produced which discussed  the potential  for tax efficiently withdrawing 
£300,000 with a view to subsequently  arranging investment for your grandchildren. 
It confirmed that the intention  was to assign enough segments [of the offshore bond]  to 
[Mr Cs wife] to use her remaining basic  rate tax band in full. And it confirmed that Tranche 
1of the investment bond could be surrendered  without incurring higher rate tax. 
There was some further correspondence  and meetings between  Mr C and Sequence, and 
he met with his financial adviser in late February 2017, where a summary of the 
recommendations was given  to him. This set out the tax implications for transferring some  of 
the tranches of his offshore bond to his wife, and some to himself. 
Of relevance, the adviser explained in more  detail that if Mr C encashed £39,421.50  of his 
offshore bond,  his additional tax liability for that tax year (16/17) would be around  £563 
(around 1.43% of the entire encashment amount). This was based on the way Sequence 
understood how top slicing would work  in other words, simply dividing the gain (£28,171) 
by the amount of time the bond  was held (10 years, so £2,817) and multiplying  the top-slice 
by 20% (basic rate tax); this gave £563.  And so it concluded that this top-slice  would mean 
you would  incur additional income  tax assuming basic rate tax (20%) of £563.43 for the 
current tax year 2016-17  meaning a net encashment value after tax of £38,858.07. 
Ref: DRN13053152Sequence calculated that this amounted to an effective rate of tax of 1.43%  on the entire  
encashment amount. This understanding of top slicing underpinned  the advice to set up the 
Trust which Sequence had been  advising Mr C on. 
Correspondence continued between Mr C and Sequence, and eventually the encashment 
and transfer of the money to the UK of that particular tranche of his offshore bond (around 
£55,000) occurred in March 2017,  before the end of the 2016/2017 tax year. Unfortunately  
for Mr C, Sequences advice turned out to be incorrect, and he in fact faced a tax liability of 
over £7,800  not the amount it had indicated  he would  be liable for (around £788).  In 
addition, Sequence had also misunderstood  his overall tax situation, and he faced an 
additional liability of around £7,000 as a result  of most of the crystallised gain being subject 
to higher rate tax. 
As a result of Sequences error, Mr C didnt set up the trust as originally envisaged, on the 
basis that given  Sequences misunderstanding  of how top slicing would affect him, his tax 
liability were he to transfer the full amount from his offshore bond wouldve been  far more 
than he had been led to expect. 
So Mr C complained. On top of the additional tax he was now liable  for, he also claimed  the 
lost growth on the £300,000 he had disinvested in July 2016 for the purposes of setting up 
the trust.  I issued a provisional decision in October  2018. In it I made the following 
provisional findings:
I was satisfied there was no dispute that Sequence, in advising Mr C, made a serious 
mistake in the way that it calculated how top slicing would affect  Mr Cs transfer of 
some of the proceeds from his offshore bond  to his account in the UK. So I accepted 
that, as a direct consequence of Sequences advice, Mr C incurred a higher tax bill 
on the tranche  of the bond  he did encash than he otherwise would have. 
I was satisfied that one of the primary reasons Mr C was intending on setting up the 
Trust was the advantageous tax implications which Sequence  had advised  he would 
benefit from. When this turned out to be incorrect, Mr C had to stop proceeding with 
setting up the Trust.  
I considered Mr Cs claim that he only disinvested around  £300,000 in his offshore  
bond as a consequence of Sequences erroneous information. He complained  that if 
hed known from the outset that the tax implications were not as described, he 
wouldve remained invested  and benefited from the same growth as the remainder of 
his portfolio. 
I accepted that Mr C wouldve wanted,  as far as possible, to choose the timing of any 
disinvestment in preparation  for the setting  up the Trust, given the sum involved.  So I 
accepted in principle that, if there  was growth  that Mr C wouldve benefited from but 
for Sequences wrong  advice,  he should  be compensated for that. 
But I didnt think Sequence should be responsible for the loss of growth from June 
2016, when Mr C made the decision  to disinvest. 
I considered, on balance, that selling £300,000  worth of holdings in his offshore bond 
in June 2016 was premature. I accepted he likely  did this because  he had accepted 
Sequences advice about  how the Trust would be set up, and about how modest  the 
tax implications would be. But I also considered that in June 2016, there  were  still a 
number of unknowns  which, regardless of Sequences advice,  couldve  had an 
impact on the feasibility of setting  up the Trust altogether and on how long it would 
take. 
I considered that in June 2016 it wasnt clear  how long setting up the Trust would 
take  and he still hadnt been told precisely  what his likely tax liability  would be. 
Ref: DRN13053153Indeed, an email from August 2016 showed this had still not been clarified as 
Sequence were  still considering whether there were other ways of mitigating  Mr Cs 
tax position. And I was persuaded  that the evidence showed Mr C was also unclear 
of the figures  involved, and precisely  how setting up the Trust would affect his tax 
position. 
So I was persuaded that Mr Cs decision  to sell some of the holdings  in his offshore 
bond in June 2016 was primarily an investment decision, which I didnt  think 
Sequence advised him to do. And whilst  I didnt think his decision was unreasonable,  
I didnt accept that Sequence should  be responsible for compensating him for the 
missed growth on his investment since that date. 
However, I explained that between June 2016 and early 2017, Sequence had 
asserted a number  of times that it was double checking  the figures and obtaining 
updated valuations.  And there were also a number  of unrelated delays. So I was 
satisfied that during  this period Sequence had opportunities to identify the error in its 
advice. In particular,  it had ample  opportunity  to work out that top slicing would not 
work in the way which was described to Mr C initially.  But in February 2017 I was 
satisfied that Sequence essentially committed itself to its interpretation of how top 
slicing would affect Mr Cs plans,  and what it would mean for him once he transferred  
the proceeds from his offshore bond.  At this point, Mr C was given the reasonable 
impression that the plans  for the Trust were also finalised. And he was given an 
example of how much tax he would have to pay. Paperwork had also been signed by 
both himself and his wife at that stage. 
So I was satisfied that at this point,  Sequence ought to have discovered its mistake 
and in fact advised  Mr C that while  top slicing might reduce  his tax liability,  it wouldnt 
reduce it to the level which  had been  explained to him. And I was persuaded that 
Mr C, had he been given an accurate  picture  of what he would be liable for in tax, 
wouldve decided not to go ahead with setting up the Trust. I therefore considered 
that this ought  to be the starting  point for calculating Mr Cs lost growth, on the basis 
that I was satisfied on balance that he wouldve told his discretionary manager to 
reinvest the uninvested cash in his offshore bond. And I considered the end point for 
the calculation  of the lost growth  should  be 15 August 2017 when Mr C discovered  
Sequences error following  a letter from his accountant.  
I considered Mr Cs claim for sums to compensate for his time and for professional 
costs. I wasnt  persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable  to ask Sequence to pay 
the sum he claimed, which  was £8,000. I explained that I thought it was reasonably 
foreseeable that setting up the type of Trust Mr C was envisaging would take a 
certain amount  of his time for which he wouldnt receive a financial benefit. And once 
the complaint  arose, Sequence had eight weeks to look into it. And whilst I 
acknowledged why Mr C decided to turn to a solicitor at that point, he didnt need to 
in order to pursue  his complaint. Indeed he raised  the initial complaint himself, and 
wrote most of the correspondence, including referring the complaint to this service. 
I did however accept that Mr C required the advice of an accountant once 
Sequences error was discovered  and so I asked Mr C to produce an invoice, if 
there was one, for those services as I didnt consider he should bear the cost of the 
accountants fees. 
I considered, given all the circumstances of Mr Cs case, that Mr C had been  caused  
a significant amount  of trouble and upset by Sequence. And for that, I considered  
£750 to be fair and reasonable compensation. 
Mr C agreed with my provisional  decision in part. He made  some  detailed submissions. In 
short, he explained that there  were  some errors of fact in the provisional decision. The 
Ref: DRN13053154primary one was around the encashment  and transfer to his bank account of a tranche of his 
offshore bond  (£55,000)  before the end of the 2016/17 tax year.  He explained  that this was 
unconnected with the setting up of the Trust, and was in fact done in order  to maximise his 
tax allowance  for that year. 
However, the tax implications of that encashment only became known in August 2017.  
Whilst unconnected with the setting up of the Trust, this showed  that Sequence had 
misunderstood how top slicing would operate, and consequently had he transferred the 
£300,000 cash  he held in his offshore bond in order to set up the Trust, his tax liability  
wouldve likely been substantial. 
Mr C also considered that I hadnt  taken full account of his pre-existing relationship with 
Sequence, and that he had previously discussed on a number of occasions  his plans for 
setting up a Trust for his grandchildren. To that effect, Mr C referred to an email of May 2016 
which demonstrated that this issued had been  discussed before that date.  
Mr C disagreed that the starting date should  be February 2017, and maintained that he 
should be compensated at the very least for the loss growth from September 2016, when 
both he and his wife signed  the relevant paperwork.  He explained that had Sequence given 
him the correct information from the beginning, there wouldve been no further discussion 
around setting up the Trust  as the tax implications  for him wouldnt have made it worthwhile. 
He also disagreed that the end date should be 15 August 2017. He explained at that point, 
once notified by his accountant  that his tax liability as a result  of the encashment  of £55,000 
was in fact a lot higher than he had been  led to believe, he contacted Sequence for 
clarification. Mr C argued that he couldnt  have been  expected  to make immediate 
arrangements at that point to re-invest the liquidated funds in his offshore bonds, because 
he wasnt clear at that stage whether Sequence had in fact made a mistake or not. It wasnt  
until the 27 August  2017 that Sequence admitted its error. Mr C said that the end point  for 
the calculation  should be, at the earliest, 1 September 2017. 
Sequence disagreed with my provisional decision and provided the following comments:
It disagreed with my finding that Mr C wouldnt have gone  ahead with the Trust had 
the tax implications been known to him from the outset. It claimed that the eventual  
£15,000 tax liability  he incurred was still less than 5% of the overall £300,000 he was 
intending to transfer  in order  to set up the Trust.  It said that Mr C had chosen  to 
disinvest this money within his offshore bond before  he knew  what his tax liability  
would be  this would  indicate  that tax considerations  were  not a primary concern 
and were a relatively insignificant  issue  in the context of the wider  exercise.  
Sequence therefore argued that even if it had provided Mr C with correct  advice  in 
February 2017, Mr C would probably  have proceeded  with the Trust anyway. 
It argued that, in any event, Mr Cs decision to disinvest  within  his offshore bonds 
was an investment decision primarily taken in order to bank some gains. It claimed 
that Mr Cs discretionary manager  had predicted markets would fall in 2017. 
So it was more likely than not that Mr C wouldve wanted to hold some or all of the 
relevant funds in lower  risk investments at that time,  regardless of the creation of the 
Trust. 
It never advised Mr C to disinvest. Mr Cs investments were held in liquid funds and 
could have been enchased when  required  on little (if any) notice. It said that it would 
generally expect  a client to disinvest funds  at the point at which he was told that the 
funds would be required. This was not the case here. 
Ref: DRN13053155It also said that not all the delays between  February 2017  and August 2017 were of 
Sequences making  and my decision effectively  penalised  Sequence for delays 
which it had no control over. This wasnt fair and reasonable. 
In any event, it said that the starting  point for any redress shouldnt be 28 February 
2017. It said that even if Mr C had been given the correct advice at that time and had, 
as a result, decided  to reinvest the previously disinvested cash within his offshore 
bond, he wouldve  needed some time to consider  the consequences. It said that the 
earliest Mr C wouldve been  in a position  to reinvest this money wouldve been 
28 March 2017, not 28 February. 
Sequence also said that there  were unquantified elements of the eventual  redress, in 
particular how much growth Mr C had in fact missed out on and what, if any, 
additional accountancy fees he incurred.  It asked to have sight of these before the 
final decision. 
Our investigator sent Sequence Mr Cs valuation of his portfolio between 2016  and 2017 as 
demonstration of the growth  he had missed out on. Mr C didnt provide evidence  of any 
additional accountancy fees he incurred  in August 2017. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I acknowledge both parties have submitted very detailed comments. Whilst I have only 
provided summaries of these comments above,  Id like to assure Sequence and Mr C that I 
have very carefully  considered their submissions as well as all the evidence  available in this 
case. 
In relation to the primary issue, I dont consider Sequences comments persuasive  nor does 
it raise any information which I hadnt already considered as part of my provisional decision. 
Ultimately, the eventual £15,000  additional tax liability, as Mr C has rightly  pointed out, was 
not a liability which had accrued as a result  of the encashment of the £300,000 offshore 
bond. This is because, given the difficulties in establishing the Trust,  that money had not in 
fact been transferred to his wife or to himself   it had remained in the offshore bond wrapper. 
I agree  with Mr C that, given the circumstances, if Mr C had in fact proceeded with 
Sequences advice,  his tax liability on transferring the £300,000  wouldve been very 
significant indeed.  
The point is that Sequence had clearly misunderstood top slicing  and how it would work on 
transfer or surrender of a bond. As I indicated in my provisional decision, the adviser thought  
that top slicing simply involved dividing the gain by the number of years the bond was held 
by, and multiply it by the basic rate of tax  and that would be the liability. 
In reality there were  a number of other considerations which hadnt been taken into account,  
including whether he would benefit from top slicing relief at all  this appears to have simply  
been taken for granted. 
This is what  had caused Mr Cs tax liability for the tranche  of the offshore  bond surrendered  
in April 2017 to be significantly  more than he was led to expect. 
Having looked  at all the evidence available, Im still persuaded that the tax implications of 
setting up the Trust  were fundamental to the endeavour.  They were discussed  in almost all 
emails about this issue between Mr C and his adviser.  And its clear  to me that, while  Mr C 
Ref: DRN13053156had other  reasons for wanting to set up the Trust, he wouldnt have gone ahead if it meant 
having to pay a third of the amount in tax. In that regard, Im not persuaded that if Mr C had 
been given the correct  advice in February 2017  he wouldve decided to still proceed with 
setting up the Trust.  Im satisfied at that stage he wouldve  decided  to reinvest the cash  in 
his offshore bond, in line with the way it had previously been invested. I note Sequences 
comments about this  but whatever  their understanding of Mr Cs discretionary managers 
view of the market, his portfolio suggests  that he remained invested throughout the period in 
question. Im also satisfied its likely he wouldnt have gone  ahead with the surrender of the 
£55,000 tranche  of the bond either.  
That said,  I think Sequence does make  a reasonable argument in relation to when he 
wouldve been able to take action.  I agree  that its unlikely he wouldve been  able to take 
immediate action, although I dont accept it wouldve taken him a month. I think two weeks 
wouldve been ample time for Mr C to decide  that the timing for setting up the Trust wasnt  
right, and to ask his discretionary manager to reinvest the uninvested  cash in the offshore 
bond. This means I think the calculation should start from 14 March 2017. 
In that regard, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I remain of the view that his decision to 
encash in June 2016 was primarily his own decision.  I think at that point he didnt have any 
indication about  how quickly  the Trust would be set up. I accept Mr Cs evidence  about the 
assurances Sequence had given him and the impression it gave him that it had done  this 
type of thing before. But Im not persuaded this justified him disinvesting such  a large sum 
before he knew precisely what  tax hed have to pay or how long setting up the Trust would 
take.  
However, I do accept that on 15 August 2017 when his accountant wrote  to him, it was 
reasonable for him to get in touch  with Sequence first. I accept that he wasnt  clear  about 
whether Sequence had indeed made a mistake, and at that point, he needed time to 
consider his next steps. It was only once  Sequence admitted liability, towards the end of 
August, that he knew that he had been given incorrect advice. So I agree that the end point 
for the calculation should be 1 September 2017. 
Putting things right
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  and in this final decision, I think  Sequence 
Financial Management  Limited must do more to put things right for Mr C. It must:
Reimburse Mr C for the additional  tax hes had to pay as a result of the advice to 
surrender a tranche of his offshore bond  in April 2017  Mr C should  provide the 
exact figure to Sequence Financial  Management  Limited if it asks. 
Pay Mr C the lost growth (based on the portfolio where the £300,000 was originally 
invested in) on the £300,000 he had previously  disinvested  between 14 March  2017 
and 1 September 2017. 
Mr C should provide evidence of what this growth was to Sequence Financial 
Management Limited. 
Pay Mr C £750 for the trouble and upset  it caused him. 
Reimburse the fees, if any, Mr C incurred for his accountants work once the 
increased tax liability  became  known if he has had to pay for them. Mr C should  
provide evidence of what  he has had to pay Sequence Financial Management 
Limited
Ref: DRN13053157my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Sequence Financial Management 
Limited. 
Sequence Financial  Management Limited  must pay the compensation Ive outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019..
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1305315