K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained Shop Direct Finance Company Limited is holding him liable  for 
purchases on his catalogue account which he didnt make.
backgroundc
In July 2018, Mr C discovered Shop Direct was holding him liable for £2,641.18 of 
transactions on his catalogue account.  This was after theyd called him to alert him to a 
missed payment. Hed not made  these transactions and told them that. Shop Direct  
explained they still expected him to pay what  was due. Theyd identified the goods had been 
delivered to where  his ex-partner lived. Mr C paid some of the arrears  to limit the impact  this 
would have on his credit record.
He brought his complaint  to our service as he remained adamant hed not made the 
transactions on this account. The last transaction he recalled had been for a suitcase in 
2017. Shop  Directs  records showed this transaction had been in April 2017.
Our investigators reviewed this evidence. This included  calls made to Shop Direct by 
someone claiming to know Mr C and saying  theyd used his password and made the 
transactions without  his consent. The name this person gave (who Ill call Ms B) was not 
Mr Cs ex-partners name. Although Mr C insisted he didnt know this person, the call 
showed Ms B referred to him by his first name.  Overall our investigators  felt Mr C had most 
likely known  about these  transactions.  It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Shop Direct 
to waive  what was owed.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a roughly 
similar conclusion  as our investigator did. Ill explain why.
Im also not going  to cover all points raised by Mr C. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues  here. Our rules  allow  me to do this. 
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Shop Direct and Mr C have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events and Mr Cs testimony were covered in our investigators 
views of 9 August 2019 and 9 June 2020.  I dont intend to repeat everything that was said 
Ref: DRN16838112there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects  which  form the basis of my decision. I can 
reassure Mr C and Shop Direct Ive reviewed the file and evidence thoroughly. 
Theres a distinct contradiction in the evidence Ive reviewed. Mr C has told us he doesnt 
know Ms B but it is clear from her calls to Shop Direct that she knows Mr C. She referred  to 
him by his first name. And theres a key aspect both investigators also struggled with. And 
thats the fact Ms B called Shop  Direct not long after Shop Directs call notes show  theyd 
told Mr C his ex-partner would need to call them. Although  possible,  it seems unlikely to me 
that this is a coincidence.
The other key aspect to my decision is payments  being made towards  the debt. Mr C has 
denied he made  payments  in early-2018 towards his Shop Direct account. And this would fit 
with him being  unaware his account  had been used over the last year or so (since a suitcase 
was bought). Mr C has given us copies of statements from his other credit cards.  None of 
these show any payments made in that period to Shop Direct.  I accept Mr C wasnt  paying 
the debt.
But someone was. Whether it was Mr Cs ex-partner or the mysterious  Ms B, I dont know.  
Shop Directs records show two different card numbers were used to attempt and make 
payments towards  Mr Cs account.  But there  is no record of any name.
Its highly  unusual for an unknown fraudster to make regular payments towards a debt which  
theyd rung up. This immediately suggests  whoever  was making use of Mr Cs account   and 
I accept it may not have  been him  was trying  to manage the account properly. This could 
either be because  they were trying to avoid Mr C knowing what  was going on or because 
Mr C had allowed them  to use his account  as long as it was maintained  properly.
Overall after reviewing the evidence this is what I think happened.  Shop Directs processes 
mean they send  emails  to confirm orders. Shop Direct had a record of Mr Cs current  email  
address. I think its more than likely emails were  sent to him when disputed orders  were 
made. Theres no record of Mr C contacting  Shop Direct to query orders  or say he hadnt 
made them.
All disputed  orders  were delivered  to the address Mr Cs ex-partner had lived at. Ive also 
seen evidence from a tenancy agreement that Mr Cs ex-partner did live at this address (and 
this also confirmed she wasnt known  as Ms B). Mr C confirmed his ex-partner had moved  
from this address but hes given us three different dates  showing when she vacated these 
premises. Some of the disputed transactions took place  after she may well have moved from 
this address. 
The problem is  right at the beginning of the account being set up  there was an order  sent 
to that address. But according to Shop Directs order records the person who this item was 
delivered to was a Ms B. Mr C admits this order was placed and delivered with his 
agreement but he said it wasnt  delivered to Ms B, as he doesnt know her.
I did consider whether  Shop Direct   after talking to someone saying she was Ms B who 
lived at the relevant address  updated all their old order  records  by pairing Ms B with that 
address. That still remains a possibility.
But Ive also noted  what was being bought from Shop Direct. Theres a mix of items. But 
some were  household items  including pillowcases and an ironing board cover   as well as 
clothes including  some  for a man.  None of the items  were expensive  in their own right but 
Ref: DRN16838113there are quite a few of them. That also suggests this is not fraud as wed normally expect to 
see it.
Having looked  at everything involved in this case  and taking into account some of the 
contradictions  I believe on balance Mr C did know someone else was using his account. 
And whilst payments were  being  made to his account and there was no impact on him, hed 
not been too worried about this. This, however, changed when payments were missed  and 
he was being  asked to pay. Unfortunately, this means he did allow  someone  else to use his 
Shop Direct account. Based on the evidence I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to 
say Shop Direct shouldnt expect Mr C to pay whats owed on his account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1683811