K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited misled them about the renewal of their 
motor insurance policy.  Mr T is the policyholder and Mrs T is the named driver.
   
background
In November 2018, Aviva sent Mr T a renewal  quote  in relation to his motor insurance policy, 
which was due for renewal in December 2018.  Mr T found a much  lower quote from Aviva  
on-line. Mr T opted for the new policy with the lower  premium.  
Mr and Mrs T say that Aviva tried to mislead them by sending a renewal quote  that was 
significantly higher  than Mr T could get on its website. Mr T says its an issue  of trust. He 
says that Aviva led him to believe that hed never  pay more  than a new customer but that 
wasnt the case. Mr and Mrs T want compensation. They also want Aviva to be reprimanded. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Aviva needed to 
do anything more to resolve the complaint. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs T hadnt 
lost out financially,  as they paid the lower  premium.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigator. He said he wasnt happy that the investigator hadnt 
reprimanded Aviva  for not warning  him that he may get a better price on-line.  Mr T accepted 
that he hadnt been disadvantaged financially but said that Aviva  had caused him distress.  
He asked that an ombudsman take a fresh view.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator and our powers dont  include powers  to reprimand businesses 
or to tell them how to conduct business. So, I cant reprimand Aviva about what  happened 
here or tell it how it should organise  renewals. I realise Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed  by 
this but I cant act outside my legal powers.  I can consider whether Aviva  treated 
Mr and Mrs T unfairly. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T are concerned that the renewal quote wasnt the lowest  quote 
they could find from Aviva but I dont think that Aviva  has treated them unfairly.  Ill explain  why.
When Aviva  sent Mr T the renewal quote in late 2018, it was based  largely  on the 
information Mr and Mrs T provided when they took out their previous policy.  Aviva  has 
provided me with confidential, business-sensitive information to explain how the price Mr T 
was quoted was calculated. Im afraid  I cant share that with Mr and Mrs T but Ive checked it 
carefully. Im satisfied the price Mr T was quoted was calculated  correctly and all of Avivas  
customers in Mr Ts position  that is renewing under Avivas previous pricing structure - will 
have been charged a similar premium.
Ref: DRN18691042Aviva says that during the term of Mr and Mrs Ts previous policy, it introduced a new pricing  
structure in which it approaches  the gathering of information differently. That may lead to a 
different premium. In this case, the new pricing structure offered Mr T a lower  premium but 
Aviva says thats not always  the case, so it doesnt automatically transfer existing customers 
to the new pricing  structure. 
The premium an insurer offers may differ, depending  on the channel of business and what 
information it has about the risk its taking. I think thats what happened  here and I dont think  
its inherently unfair. Thats because the nature of a renewal quote  means  that Mr T is free to 
accept or reject it. He rejected it and took out the policy  with the lower premium. So, he 
hasnt suffered a financial  loss.
Avivas renewal letter to Mr T said Remember you can compare different prices and 
levels of cover offered  by alternative providers.  Whilst  that doesnt  refer to different prices  
offered by Aviva, I think it drew Mr Ts attention  to the fact that there may be a lower price 
available and that he could shop around. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1869104