K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss T complained that Leeds  Building Society hadnt accurately calculated their 
mortgage repayments. Theyd changed to a few years on an interest only basis, and when they 
went back to a repayment basis, they believed  Leeds had unfairly added money to their balance.
background
Mr N and Miss A took out a repayment  mortgage in March  2003. They  took additional borrowing, 
which meant they had four parts to their mortgage. They  were  on a standard  variable interest rate, 
and the interest  rate changed over time.
In April 2010, Mr N and Miss A were  having financial difficulties, so they changed their mortgage 
from repayment to interest  only. This meant they paid less each month,  because  they werent 
paying back any capital,  just interest.  
In February 2013,  Mr N and Miss A rang Leeds, and asked how much theyd need  to pay if they 
changed back to repayment. Leeds told them it would be about £540 a month.  Mr N and Miss A 
were surprised, as it was more than theyd been  paying when theyd  last been on a repayment 
basis. Leeds explained it was because they hadnt  paid any capital while  theyd been on interest 
only. The higher payments  would be to pay off the mortgage at the original end date.
Mr N and Miss A decided to wait a bit before officially swapping back to repayment,  to make sure 
they were back on track with their finances. But they increased their monthly payments to £540 
from March 2013.  The interest only part at that stage was around  £245. So they built up some 
overpayments.
In July 2014, Mr N and Miss A changed  their mortgage back  to a repayment basis.  They  had a 
number of discussions with Leeds. One part of the borrowing  (part 4) had been for a car, and Mr N 
and Miss A decided they wanted  Leeds  to apply the overpayments to this borrowing. That part of 
the mortgage was paid off in full in October  2015.
In 2018, Mr N and Miss A complained to Leeds.  They thought their monthly payments should be 
decreasing as the mortgage was gradually  being repaid. They felt Leeds hadnt been  calculating 
their payments correctly.  
Leeds explained that on a repayment mortgage, the interest part of the monthly payment 
decreases over the time of the mortgage, and the capital part of the monthly payment increases. 
Thats because the interest is calculated on a lower balance when its recalculated once a year. 
Leeds set out what  had happened on Mr N and Miss As mortgage. It explained that their payments 
were higher  than they had been before  2010  because they hadnt been paying capital between  
2014. It said the mortgage was on track  to end as planned in March 2028.
Mr N and Miss A raised further questions, and Leeds sent further responses. These  included  Mr N 
and Miss A asking how much theyd now have been paying, if they had never changed to interest 
only. Leeds said it would have been  £384.18, compared to their current  figure  of £408.37.
Mr N and Miss A said they believed  Leeds  had added an amount onto the end of their mortgage, 
but Leeds assured them  it hadnt. It said the term of the mortgage had never been changed, and 
their payments had been recalculated every year in line with this end date. Leeds sent them some 
phone recordings of calls.
Ref: DRN15180552Mr N and Miss A werent satisfied and complained to this service.  
The investigator didnt  think Leeds  had added sums  to the mortgage as Mr N and Miss A believed.  
It had acted on Mr N and Miss As instructions by keeping  the mortgage  on an interest  only basis 
until they wanted to transfer  back to repayment. But Mr N and Miss A said that when theyd made 
the overpayments, theyd  wanted the money to be used towards  the capital theyd missed when on 
interest only.
The investigator listened to the February 2013 call which Miss A had questioned. The investigator  
said the Leeds manager hadnt agreed  that the previous adviser had given incorrect information. 
The manager had just said there  could  have been  some misunderstanding. The Leeds manager 
had explained  that while Mr N and Miss A had just been paying interest, there was a capital 
balance which hadnt been paid. To make up for that, their payments had to increase for the years 
they hadnt been paying off any capital. Theyd paid about £7,000 less than theyd have paid if 
theyd made  the full payments during that time.
So the investigator explained  that it would have been impossible for payments to have  stayed the 
same, when  theyd  paid interest only for four years. The investigator  didnt  think Leeds was asking  
Mr N and Miss A to pay any more than was due.
Mr N and Miss A werent satisfied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. This includes listening to phone recordings,  including  the calls 
in February 2013  when  Miss A phoned to ask about going back to repayment, and the call in 
August 2018 with the Leeds  team  manager.
Mr N and Miss As mortgage was on an interest only basis for about four years.  Theyd asked for 
this to help them through financial difficulties. Their monthly payments went  down a lot, because 
theyd stopped paying off capital during this time. Leeds figures were that theyd paid about  £7,000  
less during this period than they would have done  if theyd carried  on with a repayment  basis.
So this amount would have to be repaid  over the rest of the term of the mortgage. Theyd also pay 
more interest overall, because their balance was higher  than it would have been if theyd made the 
full payments on a repayment basis. 
As Ive set out above, Mr N and Miss A started paying around  £540 a month from March 2013.  The 
interest only figure, which was the basis they were  still on at the time, was around  £245. So they 
were paying  around  £295 a month extra. They  paid this until they said they were ready to go back 
to repayment  just over a year later, in July 2014.  But paying around  £295 a month extra,  for just 
over a year, wasnt going to be enough  to pay off about £7,000 plus interest which theyd  missed.  
Leeds calculations  meant that this was spread out over the rest of the mortgage, calculated  to the 
same end date as it had always been.  
Mr N and Miss A did get a benefit  from these overpayments though.  The part 4 loan had had an 
earlier end date than the rest of the mortgage.  I accept that Mr N and Miss A chose  to put the 
overpayments towards  the part 4 loan,  which wouldnt have ended  on time if it hadnt been  for the 
overpayments. Because  of the overpayments, part 4 did end when it was planned, in October  
2015.
Ref: DRN15180553Ive listened carefully  to the phone calls.  But I dont  find that Leeds did anything wrong in the phone 
calls. 
This service doesnt provide an accounting service, so I havent made exact calculations about 
exactly what Mr N and Miss As payments should be. These  are complex  computer calculations,  
and interest rates vary.  But using the principles of how mortgages  work, I consider its likely that 
Leeds calculations  are correct about  how much Mr N and Miss A will have to pay to pay off about 
£7,000 plus interest  which  they didnt pay between 2010 and 2013. 
I can see no evidence to indicate Leeds has added extra  to their balance. Nor can I see any 
evidence that Leeds has changed  the end date for their mortgage, or miscalculated their monthly  
payments.
Its clear from the phone calls, especially the one in August 2018, that Mr N and Miss A are very 
angry with Leeds.  I note that Mr N said theyd take the matter  to a solicitor and to court. So Id 
explain that Mr N and Miss A are free to reject this decision and pursue the matter in a different 
way if they wish.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1518055