K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the increases in his premiums on his home insurance policy held with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP)
background 
Mr Fs insurance  policy with StAIP started in 2007.  It initially  cost £229.95. The policys price 
was fixed for the initial years. In 2015  Mr Fs annual premium was £262.92.
In late 2015 and across  2016, there  were  three  successful claims under the policy. 
There was a claim for flood damage  with the claim totalling £107,032.17, a storm damage 
claim totalling £5,950.00 and a theft claim totalling  £9,849.85.
In 2017 Mr Fs premium had increased  to £476.86.  
Mr F says because  he had claimed  he understood that it was likely that his premium  would  
go up. But Mr F says he hasnt claimed  since, and has started  to recover his no claims 
discount (NCD). But despite  not claiming and rebuilding his NCD, StAIP  increased his 
premium in 2018 to £615.71 (of which I understand Mr F paid £596.85). And while the 
complaint was with our service Mr Fs premium for 2019 went up to £690.73.
Mr F says that he doesnt think he has been treated fairly by StAIP  and cant  understand why 
his premiums have increased despite his circumstances not changing, not claiming  and him 
rebuilding his NCD. 
Mr F also says that his property isnt in a flood zone  according to the local council and that 
he has also taken steps to prevent the risk of flooding to his property at a cost of around 
£15,000. Mr F says StAIP hasnt taken this into account.
Mr F also thinks that as StAIP no longer sells his type of policy it is increasing the cost to 
discourage people continuing with it.
StAIP say that Mr F has regained some of his NCD  since his claims in 2015/2016  but the 
premiums have been charged  correctly, and in accordance with the flood risk, which  it says 
is associated with the property and which it reviews  each year. 
It says the claims meant Mr F lost his NCD on the buildings insurance (not contents) so his 
premium increased and Mr Fs property flood  risk rating is high. 
StAIP also says if Mr F was to apply for insurance as a new customer  given the flood 
rating associated and the previous claims, it wouldnt offer insurance to Mr F. But as Mr F is 
an existing customer it can continue to offer cover  but in accordance  with the risk it says is 
associated. 
Our adjudicator thought StAIP hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. As Mr F disagrees, the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN10480882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done,  I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr F so Id like to explain why.
First I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
I would also like to add that each insurer, in determining its policys  costs,  is entitled to form 
their own view of risk regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs 
associated with the risk. Insurers often  use independent organisations to help determine 
flood risk ratings associated with properties  or areas. I appreciate Mr F might  not agree  with 
StAIPs risk assessment but ultimately it is StAIPs decision as to what  risk and cost it places 
on a property. 
Mr F is mainly unhappy that his policy premium went up in 2018 and 2019 despite  not 
claiming on the policy, regaining some of his NCD and completing some  additional  work  on 
his property to reduce  the risk of flooding / flood damage.
I do understand why Mr F is unhappy. Mr Fs circumstances  have not changed from 2017, 
so as he had started  to regain his NCD, I can see why Mr F thought his premiums  would 
decrease  rather than increase.
But in late 2015,  Mr Fs property had flooded which resulted in a significant claim. StAIP, as 
explained above, is entitled  to reassess  the risk in insuring Mr Fs property each year. StAIP  
considers the property  has a high flood risk  and so its premium reflects this. StAIP says it 
wouldnt even be able to offer insurance  to Mr F had Mr F sought new insurance  now.  And 
this is due to the flood  risk rating  and Mr Fs previous claims. This was verified when Mr F 
tried to obtain a new customer  quote  from StAIP and was declined  due to the risk associated 
with flooding.
So while Mr Fs premiums  have increased  I dont  think StAIP  has treated Mr F unfairly or 
acted unreasonably. The increase in Mr Fs premiums is down to the flood risk that StAIP 
now associates with the property.
StAIP may not have  assessed the flood  risk as serious in the earlier years of Mr Fs policy   
but that doesnt mean that it cant reassess  the cost based on the risk associated now.
I appreciate that StAIP no longer sells the policy that Mr F initially  took out  but it doesnt 
necessarily follow that thats the reason for the increase in premiums. And from what  Ive 
seen, there  seem to be legitimate risk related  reasons for the premium increasing.
I note that Mr F sought other insurance from other  insurers  and the quotes he received 
ranged in price from £450 to around £800. StAIPs 2019 renewal was for £690   so it doesnt  
seem as if StAIP has acted unfairly  in its assessment of the risk and the policys cost. I also 
note that Mr F decided against  taking out a policy with another provider as he is happy with 
what StAIPs policy offers.
Ref: DRN10480883my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc hasnt increased Mr Fs home insurance premium  unfairly.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1048088