K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ss case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S says she wouldnt have agreed to take out the PPI if shed been told it was 
optional. Halifax hasnt been able to provide a copy of Ms Ss mortgage or PPI 
applications. I dont  think thats surprising or unreasonable,  given  the time thats passed 
since the sale took place. But it means  theres  little evidence  about how PPI was 
presented to Ms S. And I cant fairly  decide,  based on the limited evidence  that I have,  
that Halifax didnt  give Ms S a fair choice in taking  out PPI.
Neither Ms S nor Halifax has been  able to tell us how Ms S applied for the mortgage and 
PPI, or whether Halifax recommended  the policy to Ms S or gave  her advice about it. For 
the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that Halifax  did advise Ms S to take out the 
PPI. This is to Ms Ss advantage, as it means Halifax  had a responsibility to check that 
the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on what  
Ms S has told us about her circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Ms S has told us shed have been entitled  to relatively generous  sick 
pay from her employer. Halifax has only been  able to provide a policy document from 
around two years  after Ms S took out the PPI. But based on that, and what  weve seen of 
other policies sold around  the time,  I think  its likely that if Ms S had made  a successful  
claim on the policy, it would  have paid the monthly benefit of £100  for up to 12 months 
per successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment. Thats longer than Ms S 
has told us shed have been  entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats more,  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition  to any payments Ms S received from her employer. So she could 
have used those to meet  other  expenses.
Ive taken into account that Ms S has told us she already had life cover and critical illness 
cover. Shes also referred to death in service benefit included in her pension.  But those 
would have paid out in different circumstances from the PPI, and didnt provide the same  
sort of cover. So I dont think they made the PPI unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN19501392Ms S has also told us she had significant  savings at the time. But Ive borne in mind that 
she chose to protect those, by not taking out a smaller mortgage. The PPI would have 
allowed Ms S to leave  her savings intact.  So taking everything  into account,  I think Ms S 
could have found the policy useful.
It may be that Halifax could have  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
the policy was competitively  priced,  and it appears  to have been affordable for Ms S. So 
even if Halifax had given her better information  about the cost of the policy,  I think Ms S 
would still have  bought it.
Its possible  Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover  (for example, 
provisions about  unusual working  arrangements or existing medical conditions). But 
based on what shes told us about her circumstances  at the time, its unlikely Ms S would 
have been affected  by any of these.
Taking everything into account  Im not satisfied that better information about the policy  
would have put Ms S off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything Halifax may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1950139