K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the mis-sale and poor handling of his motor insurance policy by 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited.  Mr C is represented by his father, Mr C2.
background
Mr C took out a LittleBox telematics  policy with Admiral.  That meant his car was fitted  with a 
device that recorded his driving behaviours. The policy said these behaviours would be 
measured against those of other drivers. It said Mr C could benefit from a lower  premium 
depending on how safely he drove and how his score compared to those of other drivers. 
Mr C2 said Admiral  told Mr C after 60 days that hed scored in the lowest 5% of drivers 
whose behaviours were  being measured.  It said that was due to driving the car late at night, 
the number of trips taken in it and the amount of time the car was parked away from Mr Cs 
home address. Admiral  gave Mr C 30 days to improve his score.  He did so, but Admiral  still 
cancelled the policy, as the improvement didnt raise  him out of the bottom 5% of scores. 
Mr C2 said Admirals adverts and its terms and conditions said there was no driving curfew. 
He said it didnt say the number of journeys made  or parking the car away  from home  would 
affect a drivers score. Mr C2 also said the whole scoring system was unfair.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She said when a telematics  policy was 
sold, an insurer should make it clear which driving  behaviours would affect the scoring.  She 
didnt think the three  major factors leading to Mr Cs low score had been  made  clear  to him 
at the start by Admiral. She thought  Mr C may not have bought  the policy had he been 
aware of them.  So she thought it should  pay Mr C £100 compensation. 
Admiral said the LittleBox  guide made it clear that overall vehicle use and driving  behaviour 
would be taken into account in the scoring. It said there was nothing  to show that Mr C 
wouldnt have bought the policy if its literature  had made clearer the specific behaviours he 
was later penalised for. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed  to me.   My 
provisional view was as follows:  
Before Mr C bought  the policy online,  he was given access to Admirals  policy  documents 
and had to accept its terms and conditions before he could buy it. 
On the policys  Key Characteristics sheet theres  a list of five policy  benefits  one of which  
is No night-time driving restrictions. On the same sheet, Admiral  says that avoiding late-
night driving could lead to a better  renewal  quote. The LittleBox  guide repeats that message, 
and also says Try to avoid late drives to get the best score. Theres more guidance in the 
document about various adverse behaviours. They include  speeding,  harsh acceleration and 
harsh braking. Avoiding late night driving is mentioned again, as it is in the Plug and Drive 
Terms and Conditions.  The details Mr C2 gave us show that Admiral uses No curfews as a 
selling point for the policy  but it also says driving after 10pm may reduce the driving score.  
Admiral was required to provide  clear information at the point of sale to allow Mr C to make 
an informed decision about  whether  the policy was right for him. I think  it was confusing for 
Mr C that Admiral advertised no restrictions in night-time driving and no curfews. Night-time 
driving was always  something that might well lead to a low score.  But I can see why Mr C 
didnt realise it was such a significant issue, given the conflicting  information Admiral set out.    
Ref: DRN17936172Furthermore, I havent seen anything  in the documents that would  have alerted Mr C to the 
fact that the number of trips he made was something that would affect  his score.  Mr C2 says 
one of Admirals adverts for the LittleBox  policy says We really dont mind  how often you 
drive to your local takeaway. We dont have a copy of the advert, but if Mr C2s account is 
correct, that message is likely to cause confusion to consumers. And in any event, Mr C 
wasnt made aware up front that the number of trips he made might cause a problem.  
   
The amount  of time the car was away from home was another  significant factor  in the 
scoring. So it should have been  brought to Mr Cs attention at the point of sale. Mr C knew 
his car would be away from home a lot, partly because  he parked it at a colleagues home  
each day to get a lift to work.
I dont think Mr C would have bought the policy if hed known  about  the likely  impact of his 
driving behaviours  on his overall scores. He was able to improve them slightly after Admiral 
told him why he had a low score after 60 days driving. Admiral has shown us that there were 
small improvements in Mr Cs night-time driving,  parking away from home and the number of 
trips taken  in the car. Mr C also improved slightly in his scores for braking, acceleration and 
speeding  although I cant see that Admiral ever commented to him on those aspects  of his 
driving. Unfortunately the level of improvement overall wasnt  good  enough.  
Admiral offered Mr C the chance to cancel his policy. That would have meant  the 
cancellation wouldnt have been recorded  and he wouldnt have had to pay £149.50 in 
charges. Mr C didnt cancel the policy,  but Admiral then waived the charges anyway.
Mr C2 says Admirals scoring system in itself is unfair. Im not sure thats the case. But in 
any event, we cant tell insurers what systems  they should put in place. Thats  an issue for 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority. What  we look at is whether a 
consumer was given  all the necessary details needed to decide whether  to buy a policy.  If 
not, we assess whether  the consumer was disadvantaged by that. 
I think Admiral  should pay Mr C compensation for mis-selling the policy  to him. I think  he was 
upset to find his scores were low due to issues he wasnt  made  aware of from the start. I 
think he was further upset by trying  to change his major behaviours  which would  have 
been difficult, given the way he used the car. Mr C was later inconvenienced  by having to 
look for cover elsewhere. Mr C2 says Mr C couldnt  afford another policy  after the 
cancellation. I think cover elsewhere is likely to have cost more than it would otherwise have 
done due to the cancellation  although Mr C could  have  avoided that by cancelling  the 
policy himself.  Mr C also lost out on the chance  to gain a years  no claims discount (NCD).   
Mr C2 thinks Admiral  should refund the whole policy premium  to Mr C. But Mr C had the 
benefit of the insurance for four months, and it seems Admiral  refunded  the premium except 
for the time he had on cover. Mr C2 also thinks Admiral should pay compensation for the 
cost of Mr Cs new insurance. I think Admiral should put Mr C back  in the position he was in 
before he took out the policy.  That means  removing the cancellation from databases. Mr Cs 
new insurer is then likely  to adjust the premium it charged.
In my opinion, it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral  to pay Mr C £400 compensation in 
total. I think that would  reflect the potential loss of a years NCD and the amount of distress 
and inconvenience  hes faced as a result  of the mis-sale. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral said the following:
Ref: DRN17936173the details  about night-time driving  and the fact that the cars time away  from home 
were scoring factors that were set out clearly  at the point of sale 
it has never said it didnt mind how often consumers drove to their local takeaway
Mr C should have  contacted Admiral if he had any concerns about the scoring
it didnt agree Mr C lost the chance to gain a years NCD, and it couldnt say what 
that was worth financially. It offered to issue proof of one years  NCD instead
it queried why Mr C had told it he was a student and that his car would be at home all 
day when in fact it was used for commuting
Mr C2 provided a document showing that Admiral  did make a statement about  not minding 
the number of trips made to a local takeaway.  He confirmed that Mr C is a student.  As part of 
his course he drives to his sponsors  home and is taken to work placements.  Mr C2 said hed 
cancelled the policy, so it wasnt an issue for Mr Cs new insurer.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C2 has given us a copy  of a written  statement  from Admiral saying it doesnt mind  how 
many trips are taken  by drivers on a LittleBox policy. So I dont think  it was fair to use that 
factor to justify cancelling Mr Cs policy. And as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think 
the guidance Admiral gave  about night-time driving  was clear enough. So I dont think 
Admiral can rely on that factor either. 
In terms of the car being away from home, Mr Cs online journey when buying the policy  
shows that he said the car wouldnt  be at home  during the day. He chose the option  work 
car park to describe where  it would be. As Mr C is a student  on an apprenticeship, I dont 
think that option was the right one. It may be the case  that Mr C should have said the car 
would be used for commuting. But I dont think hed have thought that was the right option, 
as he only drives to a colleagues home. I think if hed chosen  the option  other  it would have 
more accurately have  set out where the car would be during  the day. But Admiral accepted 
that the car wouldnt  normally be parked  at home.  It didnt query  the conflicting options  Mr C 
had picked. And it didnt  raise these issues when he first complained to it. 
I think its significant that Admirals guidance  didnt say the car being away  from home  would 
impact adversely on Mr Cs score. Had it done so I dont think hed have  taken the policy out. 
He wasnt aware of the issue until got a warning  after 60 days driving. Admiral said at that 
point that the car not being mostly at home  exposed  it to more risk of accidents and claims. I 
think that would certainly  be the case had Mr C driven the car around during the day. But I 
dont think the same risks apply when the car was parked  all day at a colleagues home.
Im still of the view that Mr C lost the chance to earn a years  NCD. He wasnt made aware 
from the start of the three most significant factors that would limit his chances of the policy  
running its course. When he was warned about  the impact these factors were having  on his 
score, I think it was hard for him to change his driving behaviours much, given  the way hed 
intended to use the car from the outset.  So I think it was Admirals fault that the policy had to 
end early. Had it run its course, Mr C may have earned a years NCD. I appreciate there was 
no guarantee of that, but Mr C lost any chance of earning it. Admiral has offered  to issue 
proof of a years NCD. I think  thats a very reasonable  alternative to monetary compensation, 
and Mr C has agreed to accept it.
Ref: DRN17936174Mr C2 is sure he rang Admiral to cancel the policy when it offered Mr C the chance to do so. 
I think thats very likely  to be the case, as I cant see any reason why he wouldnt have 
jumped at that offer. Admiral had set out very clearly that there was a major advantage to 
Mr C in cancelling the policy  himself. But Mr C2 has no evidence that he made the call, and 
Admiral didnt respond to our request for it to check its telephone records. Admiral has said 
from the start that it cancelled the policy, so thats  what the records will show. That means 
Mr C should disclose it to other insurers and is likely to have to pay more for other policies. 
I dont think its fair that Mr C should be left in this position. I think  Admiral should amend any 
records showing that it cancelled the policy, so that Mr C doesnt have to disclose it. I think  
taking that action, issuing proof of a years  NCD and paying Mr C £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is a reasonable way for Admiral to put matters right.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
amend any record that says Admiral cancelled the policy
issue Mr C with proof of a years NCD
pay Mr C £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1793617