K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mrs W says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W applied  for this credit card and PPI online.  She then signed a credit agreement.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mrs W online, but Ive seen a copy  of her 
credit card agreement that she then signed.  On this document there  was an option to 
tick if PPI was required and also an opportunity  to sign separately to confirm that PPI 
was being taken out. Both a tick and separate signature have been added for the 
PPI. So I think that this indicates what Mrs W wanted.
Ive also noted  that there are inconsistencies  in Mrs Ws testimony. For example,     
in her PPI questionnaire shes  said I am not 100% aware of PPI on this financial 
productit was added  without  my knowledge.  But in response  to our adjudicators 
assessment shes said; misled our client into believing that it was compulsory 
feature which  she had to have in order to be accepted for the finance Its not 
plausible that somebody cannot  be aware of taking something if theyre also saying  
that they were  pressured into taking it to be accepted for credit. 
Given the time thats passed since the PPI was sold, it not surprising that Mrs W may 
not recall everything  clearly now. 
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
could have been useful for her if something  went wrong. 
I say this because  I think  that this policy  could have paid out for longer than the 
existing means - sick pay and savings,  that Mrs W has told us about. The policy  also 
would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ws existing  means allowing her the option of 
not needing to rely on her existing means  to make  her credit card repayments and 
Ref: DRN11200572instead potentially  use her existing means for other living expenses that she may 
have had. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W 
about that. Because HSBC didnt  tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said, but these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mrs W any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs W the difference between 
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mrs W 8%* simple interest if 
Mrs W paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1120057