K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Mr W in 2002. I can see 
the application form contains a section about  PPI. I note a box has been marked with a cross  
to add PPI to the account.
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The credit  card 
was applied for during a meeting. The application form contains details of Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time and an additional  cardholder has been  added.  So I think  the form 
was likely completed during a discussion,  then printed  and passed  to Mr W to check and 
sign. I think its likely the PPI was discussed and accepted  by Mr W during this conversation.  
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. 
Mr W has told us hed receive full sick pay from his employer for up to six months, reducing 
to half pay for a further six months  if he was unable to work. But the PPI couldve paid a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months in addition to any sick pay. Itd also have paid out if he 
lost his job. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr W off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If it hasnt  done  so already Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mr W now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN12845742my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1284574