K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Gain Credit LLC (Lending Stream) lent him money  he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr W took out an instalment loan with Lending  Stream. The details for this loan are:
Date amount instalments monthly repayment
Repayment date
07 January 2014 £250 6 up to £162.50 Still outstanding
When Mr W complained to Lending  Stream that the loan wasnt  affordable it didnt  agree.  It 
says it was entitled to rely on the information Mr W gave about his income and outgoings, 
and when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loan was affordable 
for him. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld.  He says Lending  
Stream carried out proportionate checks for the loan and so it didnt  do anything wrong. 
Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators view and says if Lending Stream  had carried out a 
correct credit check it would have seen he had defaults, missed repayments and CCJs at 
the time and so shouldnt have lent him the money.  As both parties  are still not in agreement,  
the complaint  has come  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lending Stream, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr W would be able to repay in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr W would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loan provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ws indebtedness  in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Lending Stream did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether    
Mr W could afford to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
Ref: DRN15571232proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing and the length  of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Lending Stream  had to do.
Mr Ws loan was for £250 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the highest repayment amount 
being £162.50. Lending Stream  says he told it he was earning £5340 and declared 
expenditure of £400. Lending  Stream also says it carried out a credit  agency check  that it 
says was satisfactory although I havent  been  able to see what it says it saw at the time. 
I can see the monthly repayment  was a small proportion of Mr Ws declared  disposable  
income, the instalment amount was low and this was his first loan. So for those  reasons,  I 
am satisfied  that the checks carried out by Lending  Stream for this loan were  proportionate.
Mr W has said that Lending Stream should  have seen he was in financial difficulty at the 
time by carrying out a credit check and not lent to him as a result. Lending Stream has 
confirmed that it used Credit Reference Agencies  as part of its affordability assessment but 
has not given  much detail about this. There wasnt any requirement for it to carry out detailed 
credit checks  just that it needed to conduct  proportionate checks. And as Ive said above, I 
think that proportionate checks would have  shown that the loan was affordable for Mr W 
based on what he told them for the reasons I have  already given.
Mr W says that Lending  Stream  should have looked into his financial circumstances further 
and not agreed  to lend him the loan but Lending  Stream was entitled  to rely on the 
information Mr W gave them about the level of his income and expenditure. And overall, Im 
not satisfied that there was anything which should  have  made  it think  that he wouldnt be 
able to afford to repay the loan, or which ought  to have prompted them to carry out more 
detailed checks.
In conclusion, I consider  the affordability checks that Lending Stream made on Mr Ws loan 
were proportionate and sufficient. So I cant say now that it was wrong for Lending Stream  to 
give this loan to Mr W. And so I cant require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
1 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1557123