K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a hire purchase  agreement  was mis-sold to him by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited, that his deposit  was used  incorrectly and about the poor service that 
hes received.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with BMW Financial  
Services that he signed in September 2017. He says that he was told that the value of the 
car would be more than the amount that hed paid for it in 18 months  but when he returned  
to the dealer 18 months later the car was worth less than hed paid for it. He says that he 
also found out that the £500 deposit  that hed paid for the car had been used to settle  the 
outstanding amount due under his previous agreement which had increased  the negative  
equity on his current car. He complained to BMW Financial Services that the agreement  had 
been mis-sold to him, his deposit had been used  incorrectly and about the poor service that 
hed received. He wasnt  satisfied  with its response  so complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that he was 
unable to conclude  that Mr S was misinformed about the deposit and negative equity on the 
previous agreement. And he said that there  was no mention of a price guarantee or equity 
retention in the agreement and no evidence to confirm  that it was promised to him - and he 
was unable to conclude that price  retention was offered to Mr S. 
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that BMW Financial Services  has confirmed that he requested a settlement figure after 18 
and 24 months which  he says indicates that hed been told that there would be equity in the 
car. And he says that its safe to assume  that he wouldnt  be in negative  equity this time 
round because of his previous experience. He also says that hes been  done over by a 
corporate company  and as a private  individual he has no power  to overturn any decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sales  invoice for the car that was supplied to Mr S under the agreement shows  that the 
value of the car was £21,995  - but the dealer agreed a discount  of £1,115.96 so the cash 
price of it was £20,879.04. It also shows that Mr S paid a deposit  of £500, £15,801.09 was 
required to settle  his previous agreement and the trade-in  value  of his previous car was 
£15,301.09.
Mr S signed  the sales invoice so I consider that he knew   or ought to have  known  that the 
trade-in value of his car was £15,301.09 and that the deposit of £500 that he paid was 
added to the trade-in value so as to settle the outstanding amount due under his previous  
agreement. I consider  that that information  is clearly set out on the sales invoice. So Im not 
persuaded that BMW  Financial Services or the dealer has acted incorrectly  in connection 
with the deposit that was paid by Mr S.
Mr S also signed the hire purchase agreement and in doing so confirmed that he wanted  to 
be legally  bound by its terms. The agreement clearly set out the key terms: the cash price of 
the car was £20,879.04 (which is consistent  with the amount on the sales  invoice), the 
Ref: DRN15404062charge for credit was £5,572.44, the APR was 9% and Mr S was to make  47 monthly 
payments of £330  with an optional final payment of £10,941.48.
Mr S says that he was told that the car would be worth more than hed paid for it after 18 
months  and that he entered  into the agreement on that basis.  But hes not been able to 
provide any evidence to support what he says and theres no other evidence (and nothing in 
the agreement) to show that he was given any guarantee or assurance about  the future 
value of the car. Nor do I consider it to be likely that BMW Financial Services  wouldve given 
him any such guarantee or assurance. 
If the guaranteed future value of the car was such an important factor for Mr S in entering 
into the agreement, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect him to have obtained 
some form of documentary evidence about the cars future  value before entering  into the 
agreement. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the agreement  was mis-sold to 
Mr S or that BMW  Financial Services (or the dealer) has acted incorrectly  in connection  with 
the car that was supplied to Mr S. Nor am I persuaded that the service  that Mr S has 
received has been unacceptable.  So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require BMW Financial Services  to provide Mr S with any 
guaranteed minimum  value for the car if he wants to part-exchange it (or to settle his 
agreement)  or to take any other action in response  to his complaint.
  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1540406