K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  wont fix her boiler  under her boiler  breakdown 
cover.
background
Mrs J took out boiler breakdown cover underwritten by Aviva in September  2018. This was 
to protect  a boiler  in a property which she rents out. 
In April 2019 Mrs J called  Aviva to report that the boiler was leaking. She provided contact 
details for the propertys  letting agency and was told that someone  would  be in touch. A few 
weeks later,  she was contacted by the letting agency to explain that the boiler  was still 
leaking and no one had been in touch to arrange  a repair. So she called Aviva  again to 
arrange this.
An engineer  attended the property in May 2019  and deemed  the boiler to be beyond 
economical repair (BER). Aviva offered her £200 to contribute  towards  the costs of a new 
boiler and cancelled her policy.
Mrs J wasnt happy about this and felt that Aviva should cover the full cost of replacing the 
boiler. She said that Avivas delay in sending  an engineer caused the damage to get worse. 
So she complained to Aviva.
Aviva accepted that it failed to call Mrs Js letting agency sooner to arrange  for an engineer 
to attend and offered £100 for the trouble  this caused. But it stood by its decision in deeming 
the boiler to be BER.  It said the engineers diagnosis was that the parts  had been  leaking for 
longer.
Mrs J didnt agree and so she brought the complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained that in 
the engineers  expert opinion, the boiler would have  been deemed BER even  if Aviva  had 
sent an engineer  earlier.  So he was of the view that Aviva had acted reasonably and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. He also felt that the £100 offered for not calling 
Mrs Js letting agent sooner was fair. 
Mrs J didnt accept our investigators opinion. She didnt agree that the delay  hadnt  caused 
the damage to get worse and felt that a second engineers opinion would show  this. Our 
investigator felt that Mrs J had ample  time to obtain  a second engineers report  and because 
she hadnt, he issued  his opinion based on the evidence available  to him.
Mrs J remains  unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision on 
the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint and for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN13197882The terms and conditions  for Mrs Js policy sets out what Aviva is and is not willing  to do in 
the event of a claim. BER is defined in the policy as being where  the total cost of parts 
(including VAT) from reputable suppliers  exceeds 85% of the manufacturers current retail  
price, or average current retail price available through leading UK suppliers,  for a boiler of 
the same  or similar make  and model. 
Aviva has provided evidence to show that the parts required  to repair  the boiler would cost 
£844.75 (including VAT). This is considerably  higher than the retail price of Mrs Js current 
boiler, which has been confirmed by Aviva  as being  £649.20. So I think  Aviva has fairly 
applied the terms  and conditions of the policy by concluding that Mrs Js boiler  is BER.  
Mrs J believes  the boiler wouldnt have been  deemed BER had Aviva sent an engineer when 
she first made them aware  of the leak, which was three  weeks earlier.  However,  Avivas  
engineer has explained  that, in his expert opinion, the damage is consistent  with a prolonged 
leak  over a period  longer than three  weeks. Aviva  said that it would consider any evidence 
from an independent engineer, but as Mrs J has not provided any, Ive relied upon the only 
expert advice available - confirming the damage  was caused before Mrs J initially  reported 
the leak.
Avivas terms  and conditions say that if a boiler is deemed BER and it is seven or more  
years old (which Mrs Js boiler is), then Aviva will only contribute £200  towards  the cost of a 
new boiler and it will also cancel the policy. Taking  everything into consideration I think  Aviva 
acted reasonably when cancelling Mrs Js policy and offering to pay £200 towards the cost of 
a new boiler so I cant tell Aviva to do any more. 
Aviva offered £100 for the length of time if took for an engineer  to visit. I think this offer of 
inconvenience is fair taking into account the impact  its had on Mrs J. I say this because  
there's no disagreement  that there was a delay and I can understand that it wouldve come  
as a shock to her to hear that nothing had been  done since she reported the leak some 
weeks later.  However,  it's been established that even if Aviva had sent out an engineer  
when Mrs J first reported the leak, the boiler  wouldn't have been repairable  under the policy 
so I wont be asking  Aviva to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 October 2019.
John Norton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1319788