K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about Best Practice IFA Group  Limited. Hes unhappy with how his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  and his Pension  Withdrawal Plan (PWP)  were  invested.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 25 July 2019,  which forms part of this decision.  In my 
provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I invited both parties  
to provide any further evidence or arguments  that they wanted me to consider before I made 
my final decision.
Best Practice queried why my provisional  directed  them  to compare the investment performance  
of the whole fund from 11 October 2010  up to the date of my decision. They thought  the 
calculation should  only be made  up to the point they stopped  servicing Mr Ts pension  plans.
I wrote  to both parties explaining that, after taking  this in to account,  I thought  it was fairer for 
the calculation  to be carried out up to the point the loss (if any) crystallised. And I considered 
this to be when  Mr T transferred his plans away from the pension  provider.  I understood the 
transfer dates to be:
Policy D6011935000 - 4 August 2016
Policy Dl041677000 - 6 March 2018
I explained that I intended to direct Best Practice to compare the investment performance for 
each plan from 11 October 2010 up to the above dates. But that they should also pay 8% per 
year interest from the date the plans were  transferred to the date of my decision to reflect the 
loss of use of money during that time.  I provided  both parties with an updated version  of the 
redress methodology - which included the following table setting out the proposed change:
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
D1041677000 transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income  
Total 
Return  
Index 11 October 
20106 March 
20188% simple per year 
from end date to date 
of decision 
and;
8% simple per year 
from date of decision to 
date of settlement  (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
Ref: DRN17437642D6011935000 transferredFTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
Index11 October 
20104 August  
20168% simple per year 
from end date to date 
of decision 
and;
8% simple per year 
from date of decision to 
date of settlement  (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
Mr T has, in summary, said:
It was correct  for him to be described  as a balanced investor.
His retirement  package was not balanced  and the investment strategy wasnt 
discussed or explained to him.
The package  was set up to attract high maintenance charges  which  he felt should  be 
taken in to account  when calculating the compensation.
Best Practice has, in summary, said
They didnt  think the 2010  fund switches  fundamentally altered the risk profile of Mr Ts 
pension plans.
It was necessary  to leave some of Mr Ts funds in cash as part of the drawdown process 
so that he could claim an income. 
Plan D6011935000  doesnt contain  any of the high risk investments that happened as 
part of the 2010  fund switching. And so this plan should  be excluded from the redress  
calculation.
It isnt appropriate for the redress calculation to be carried out on the entire  SIPP value 
as this could put Mr T in a better position than if the fund switches  hadnt taken place. 
This is because a significant  proportion of the SIPP was in cash and so posed little risk. 
And by comparing this against  the benchmark  index it can only work in Mr Ts favour  as 
they doubt cash would provide the same level of returns as the index proposed. 
Mr T rejected a proposal to transfer  his funds in to a low cost contract with another  SIPP 
provider with a more cautious portfolio before he terminated  their servicing  rights. They  
think their liability  should end when this advice  was given (and rejected) and that they 
also shouldnt  be required to pay 8% interest to the loss calculation.
Now that both parties have had the opportunity to respond to my provisional  decision, along 
with the clarification on the redress  I proposed,  I can proceed to make  my final decision.
Ref: DRN17437643my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to depart 
from the outcome  I provisionally reached. Ill explain why.
There isnt anything to show Mr Ts attitude to risk was reassessed  when the October 2010 
fund switches happened. Notes from the time say it remained  as balanced and, given Mr T 
has since confirmed this to be true, I think its reasonable to consider this to be accurate. 
The fund switches that took place meant Mr T was investing in  according to the investment 
profile used at the time of the 2007 advice  types of funds  suitable  as part of an adventurous 
investment. Best Practice  doesnt  think these switches fundamentally altered the risk profile of 
Mr Ts pension plans  but I disagree.  I think it exposed  Mr Ts capital to too much risk and it meant 
his investment portfolio wasnt in line with his balanced  attitude  to risk. I also consider  these  
switches didnt take in to consideration the plans were Mr Ts sole pension provision and so his 
capacity for loss was much lower at this point due their reduced  value.  I remain of the view that it 
wasnt appropriate for Mr Ts capital to be exposed to such  risk given his circumstances.
Ive therefore  considered  what should be done to put things right.  Best Practice  doesnt  think  
Plan D6011935000 should be included as part of the redress calculation as it didnt contain 
any of the investments that Mr T switched  in to in 2010. While that might be true, the fund 
switches impacted the overall investment portfolio and Best Practice were responsible for 
ensuring it was in line with Mr Ts attitude  to risk and his investment aims. As Im satisfied it 
wasnt in line with Mr Ts attitude to risk after the fund switches  were  made  it follows that I 
think its fair for the redress calculation to include both the SIPP  and the PWP funds.
Best Practice think this will likely  put Mr T in a better position  as the funds he held in cash  are 
unlikely to have  outperformed the benchmark index  proposed. And theyve said it was necessary 
for funds  to be held in cash  for drawdown purposes. Ive carefully considered  this point. But while 
I think its reasonable for a balanced investment portfolio to have some  funds  held in cash,  this is 
only a part of it. The portfolio will also include  other funds exposed  to more  risk with the hope  of 
generating greater  returns. So I consider it reasonable for the comparison to be carried out 
against the entire portfolio  as Im trying to put Mr T back  in the situation  he wouldve been  in, or 
as close as I reasonably  can, had he been  given suitable advice in 2010 - and thereby not 
advised to invest  in the funds he did. I cant be entirely sure what Mr T wouldve done and so Ive 
chosen the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total Return  Index as a way of doing this. This is 
because I believe the mix and diversification it provides is close enough to allow  me to use it as a 
reasonable measure of comparison  given  Mr T's circumstances and risk attitude   with the 
comparison also taking in to account  any charges that were applied  to Mr Ts pension  plans.
Best Practice has questioned why the calculation Ive proposed  runs up to the point Mr T 
transferred his SIPP funds. They argue their liability should end at the point Mr T rejected their 
proposal to transfer  his funds in to a low cost contract with another  SIPP  provider with a more 
cautious portfolio.  Although Best Practice stopped servicing Mr Ts SIPP  shortly  after this 
advice, the effects  of the 2010  fund switches didnt crystallise at this point. But rather this 
happened when  Mr T transferred his plans away from the existing SIPP provider and so was no 
longer invested  in the portfolio Best Practice had recommended to him. For plan D1041677000 
this was following  Mr T seeking advice from another adviser which  I think  he was entitled  to do - 
as he wasnt under any obligation to continue to accept advice from Best Practice. I therefore 
think it is fair for the calculation to be made up to the point the plans were transferred.  
Ref: DRN17437644If a loss is found then Mr T has suffered as a result this by not having  such  money available 
to him. To recognise this I think paying 8% interest is fair in the circumstances and so Im not 
persuaded to change  this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Best Practice  IFA Group Limited to 
calculate and pay compensation  to Mr T on the following basis:
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr T would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
 
what should  Best  Practice  IFA Group  Limited do?
 
To compensate Mr T fairly, Best Practice IFA Group Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ts investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there  is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
 
Best Practice IFA Group Limited should  also pay interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Best Practice IFA Group Limited should pay into Mr Ts pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should  not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Best Practice IFA Group Limited  is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ts pension  
plan, they should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I understand Mr T is likely to have been a basic  rate 
taxpayer, so the reduction would equal  the current basic  rate of tax. If he would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
In addition, Best Practice IFA Group Limited should  pay Mr T £250  for the trouble and upset  
this matter will have caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Best Practice  IFA Group  Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Best Practice 
IFA Group  Limited should give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN17437645investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
D1041677000 transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income  
Total 
Return  
Index 11 October 
20106 March 
20188% simple per year 
from end date to date 
of decision 
and;
8% simple per year 
from date of decision to 
date of settlement  (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
D6011935000 transferredFTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
Index11 October 
20104 August  
20168% simple per year 
from end date to date 
of decision 
and;
8% simple per year 
from date of decision to 
date of settlement  (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr T paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there are a large  number  of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Best Practice IFA Group Limited totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T was recorded as having a balanced  attitude  to risk.
Ref: DRN17437646The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income  total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough  to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison given 
Mr T's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money  
since the end date.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation should be carried out are available  on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical  Resource'  / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. 
If I consider  that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Best Practice  
IFA Group  Limited pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that Best Practice  IFA Group  Limited 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation  up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Best Practice IFA Group Limited  pay Mr T the balance plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17437647Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr T complains about Best Practice  IFA Group Limited. Hes unhappy with how his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and his Pension Withdrawal  Plan (PWP)  were invested.
background
Mr T met with an advisor, who Ill refer to as Mr G, in 2007. He was advised to transfer pension 
benefits, valued at about £185,000,  to another provider for drawdown purposes. 
Mr T took 25% tax free cash and the remaining funds were  invested in two plans,  a SIPP for the non-
protected rights and a PWP for the protected rights. 
At this time, Mr Ts attitude to risk was assessed as balanced.  And the investment profile from the 
time described that a balanced investment:
will usually be asset backed and may include a spread of investments  to reduce the 
overall level of risk. In the short term it is likely the value  of such  investments will 
fluctuate. Historically,  over the medium/longer  term i.e. 5 years+ the return  from Balanced 
investments have been greater than that gained from Cautious  Investments.
The investment profile also gave examples of investment types for a balanced investment  that 
included managed funds,  UK Equity funds, UK Growth funds and UK Income funds.
In 2009 Mr G arranged for funds to be sold from Mr Ts SIPP  along with arranging  a fund switch  in his PWP. 
Mr T met with Mr G again  in September 2010. Meeting  notes show that Mr Ts attitude to risk 
remained the same and that he was told his income  would  fall substantially at the 5 year anniversary 
point of the plans being set up due to (lower)  fund values and falling annuity rates. It also says fund 
switches were agreed to achieve growth and to provide Mr T with greater diversification.
Following this, although yearly reviews between Mr T and Mr G seem  to have taken place, the 
underlying investment funds remained largely the same  albeit with varying degrees of 
proportionality due to investment performance - up until Mr T transferred his remaining  pension 
benefits to another provider in March 2018. At which point,  they were  valued  at about £42,000.
Mr T was unhappy with the value  of his plans and so he complained about the matter. He said that 
although hed accessed  about £120,000 from his pension benefits,  the value he transferred in 2007 
was about £185,000 which had since reduced to about £42,000. And so he felt there was a deficit  of 
about £20,000.
Best Practice  didnt uphold the complaint. They said the funds invested  in, and the strategy  pursued, 
was suitable for Mr Ts investment purposes. They explained his plans were invested in areas that 
added exposure to faster  growing funds  in emerging  markets  and UK Smaller Companies asset 
classes, which helped support the income he received. They also added  that the value of his plans 
werent guaranteed  so they had the potential to fall as a well as rise. 
Our investigator looked in to the matter but thought the funds Mr T invested in werent in line with his 
attitude to risk. He also considered that Best Practice hadnt been proactive enough in altering the 
investment to address  underperformance. Because of this, he recommended  Best Practice carry out 
a comparison of what  of Mr Ts plans  wouldve  been  worth had they been invested in funds suitable  
for his attitude  to risk. He also thought £250 compensation should  be paid to Mr T for the trouble and 
upset this matter  caused  him.
Best Practice  disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN17437648my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
the initial  advice in 2007 to transfer
Mr T received financial  advice from Mr G up until the point he transferred  his plans to another  
provider. But at the time of the initial  advice  in 2007 the firm Mr G worked for wasnt an appointed 
representative of Best Practice.  Best Practice therefore isnt responsible for the advice Mr G provided  
Mr T at that time.
Mr Gs firm later became an appointed representative of Best Practice  on 28 July 2008.   And so they 
are liable for any concerns Mr T has about how his pension benefits  were  invested or managed from 
this point  and up until he transferred his plans to the new provider. 
If Mr T has concerns about the suitability  of advice  prior to 28 July 2008, he would have to direct this 
to the principle firm that Mr G was acting for as an appointed representative  of at that time.
the suitability of the investments
Mr Ts SIPP and PWP remained  invested  in largely  the same funds  from 28 July 2008 up until the 
fund switches that took place following the September 2010  meeting. There were  some funds  sold in 
Mr Ts SIPP along with a fund switch in his PWP during 2009 but the amounts involved were  relatively 
small. So I dont consider  they substantially altered the investment portfolio overall.
Ive considered the investments Mr T was invested in during this time and, after taking his personal  
circumstances and attitude  to risk into account, I dont consider they were unsuitable for him. The 
funds were mainly invested in UK equities, fixed interest and property asset classes which I consider 
appropriate for someone who has a balanced attitude  to risk. I think it gave Mr Ts pension funds  a 
reasonable amount of security while  also allowing  for the opportunity of growth over the medium  or 
longer term.  I therefore dont think Best Practice invested  or managed Mr Ts pension plans 
inappropriately up until the September  2010 advice.
I do however consider that the fund switches that happened following  the September 2010 meeting 
werent suitable  for Mr T. Ill explain why.
Although Ive not seen anything  to show Mr Ts attitude to risk was reassessed in the September 2010 
meeting, or even subsequent to that, the notes say it remained as balanced. The fund switches that 
took place though meant that about 20% of Mr Ts SIPP was invested in UK small companies, 
American funds, Asian funds  and Global Sector funds. And the investment profile  used at the time 
of the 2007 advice  listed these types of funds as examples of an adventurous investment. It also 
described that an adventurous investment:
is usually asset backed and invested in a restricted portfolio of stocks & shares. The 
potential rewards may be higher than those  gained  from Balanced investments but there 
may be a high risk to capital.
While Best Practice has said the fund switches were made  to add exposure to faster growing  funds, 
I think  it exposed Mr Ts capital to too much  risk. The investment profile clearly identifies  these funds 
as suitable for an adventurous investor.  And although it only consisted of about 20% of the SIPP 
value, I dont  think  the overall  investment  portfolio was in line with Mr Ts balanced attitude  to risk or 
suitable for his circumstances.
Ref: DRN17437649Ive also taken  in to account that, while Mr T had assets of about £450,000  (as at 2007); this was his 
sole pension provision. And at the point  of the fund switches in 2010 the value of pension plans had 
been reduced  to about £74,000. I therefore think Mr Ts capacity  for loss was much lower at this time.  
And although the need  to generate growth for future income was identified, Im not persuaded the risk 
Mr Ts capital was exposed to was reasonable in the circumstances.
I think  Best Practice should  carry out a loss comparison  similar to that proposed by the investigator - 
to establish whether Mr T has suffered  a loss due to his pension plans  being invested in this way. 
From what Ive seen, Mr Ts SIPP invested in the funds on 11 October  2010. So I think it should  be 
calculated from this point onwards.
I also think  the £250  recommended for the trouble and upset this matter has caused Mr T is 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im therefore not intending to increase this further.
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend  to order Best Practice IFA Group Limited  to calculate and pay compensation to Mr T on the 
following basis. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.  
I think  Mr T would have  invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what  he would  have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr Ts circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
 
what should Best Practice IFA Group Limited do?
 
To compensate Mr T fairly, Best Practice IFA Group Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ts investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Best Practice  IFA Group Limited should also pay interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Best Practice  IFA Group Limited  should  pay into Mr Ts pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Best Practice IFA Group Limited is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr Ts pension plan, they 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ts actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. I understand Mr T is likely to have been a basic rate taxpayer, so the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Best Practice IFA Group Limited should pay Mr T £250 for the trouble and upset  this 
matter will have caused.
Ref: DRN174376410Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Best Practice IFA Group Limited deducts  income  
tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr T how much has been  taken off. Best Practice IFA Group Limited 
should give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment name status benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
D1041677000 transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index  11 October 
2010date of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is not 
paid within  28 days 
of the business  
being notified of 
acceptance)
D6011935000 transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index11 October 
2010date of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is not 
paid within  28 days 
of the business  
being notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid or payable from the investment  at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr T paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there are a large number of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Best Practice IFA Group Limited totals all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T was recorded  as having  a balanced attitude  to risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices representing different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  It would  be a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Ref: DRN174376411Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison  given Mr T's circumstances 
and risk attitude.
The additional  interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since the end date.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation  should be carried  out are available on our website under 
'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment'  / 'Calculating compensation  in investment 
complaints'.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Best Practice IFA Group 
Limited pays the balance.
determination and award: I provisionally uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated  as set out above. My provisional  decision is that Best Practice  IFA Group 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding  costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that Best Practice IFA Group Limited  pay Mr T the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743764