K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 1997.  It was sold 
in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr B said, in summary, he wasnt given any 
information about the insurance or told it was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding  
PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy  was sold, but FICL has provided a 
copy of Mr Bs store card application form.
The form had a separate section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected. Mr Bs 
signed the application form by this selection. Mr B said he wasnt told PPI was optional.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  
I think is most likely  to have happened  based on whats available. Based on the limited 
information Ive got, I cant fairly find that more likely than not Mr B was led to believe that 
he had to have  PPI. I think it more likely, from what Ive seen, that he was given the option 
of taking PPI and decided to do so. The paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional and I 
think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mr B to check over the document he was 
signing. The section about PPI was relatively  brief, so I think Mr B wouldve still been able to 
do this even though the card and PPI was taken out in a store.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make  sure Mr B got clear  information  so he could make and informed choice 
and decide if it was right for him and he wanted to buy it.
FICL no longer  has a copy of the terms and conditions  that applied  at the time of sale. It 
has provided a copy  of the policy  document from after the sale.  Looking  at that, and taking 
into account what weve learnt about the sale of these policies from dealing  with other 
cases, I think it likely that the terms and conditions wouldve been similar. So, Ive taken 
that into account when deciding this case.
Ref: DRN10194012Its possible the information FICL  gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr B told us he wouldve got statutory sick pay from work and I cant see he had 
any other means of making his repayments.  He said his union may have helped  him. The 
PPI would have paid out on top of Mr Bs statutory sick pay allowing him to use these 
benefits to meet his other household expenses. So, overall, I still think the PPI could have 
been useful to him, in his circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. As he couldve benefitted 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better  information  about these things 
wouldve affected his decision  take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable  and he 
couldve cancelled it at any time.  
I cant see that Mr B has lost out because of anything that FICL did wrong,  so I dont uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019401