complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage through the Nationwide in 1991  and with it a monthly 
premium PPI policy. The policy gave them accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  It 
cost them around £18.27 per month  and covered their monthly  mortgage  repayment. Mr 
H only was covered under the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They said, in the 
main, that the policy wasnt right for them because Mr H was self employed and the terms 
and conditions of the policy made it more difficult for a self-employed  person  to make a 
successful claim. They  also said they werent told that the policy  was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive
decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear  that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs H had to agree 
to take it. Nationwide no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs paperwork from the time 
of sale. But thats not surprising given that this policy was sold so long ago. Businesses 
generally only keep  records for six years. So, as well as taking into account what  Mr 
and Mrs H have said, Ive also taken  into account  what weve  learnt about Nationwides  
sales processes from dealing with other cases. Overall, I think  it likely that Mr and Mrs 
H wouldve been given  the option to take out PPI. I think it likely that Mr and Mrs H told 
Nationwide that they wanted PPI and thats  why it was added to their account. I cant 
see that Mr and Mrs H were  pressurised  into taking  PPI by Nationwide and I havent 
seen anything which leads me to conclude  that they were told they had no option and 
had to have PPI if they wanted the mortgage.
From what  Ive seen here, and what weve learnt  about Nationwides  sales processes, I 
dont think Nationwide  recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs H, so it didnt have to 
check it was suitable  for their needs. But, Nationwide  did need to give them clear 
information about the PPI so they could  decide  whether they wanted  to buy it.
Nationwide no longer has a copy of the policy document that applied  at the time of sale. 
But, it has got one from not long afterwards  and I think the terms and conditions  about 
unemployment cover  were likely to be the same.  Having looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy and considered Mr and Mrs Hs individual circumstances, I cant  
see that PPI was inappropriate for them. In reaching  this conclusion, Ive taken  into 
account Mrs Hs circumstances too, although only Mr H was covered  under  the policy. I 
think the policy was appropriate for them because:
Ref: DRN15152102Mr H was eligible for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the insurance;
he was self employed at the time of sale and had been  for a while, but the policy 
covered self-employed people. To get cover  he had to register  with the 
unemployment benefit office when  he no longer  had work. I cant see that this was 
an onerous requirement or that it was any more  difficult  for him to make  a successful 
claim for unemployment than it was for a person  that had been  employed prior to 
losing their job. So, it seems that the policy was still right for him even though  he 
was self employed.  I cant see that he  was affected by any of the other  main  
limitations or exclusions in the policy so I dont  think  having better information about 
these things wouldve  changed their decision to take out the policy because Mr H 
couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered;
 Mr H said they had around £2,500 in savings to cover  them  if he wasnt  working. 
But, I cant see that having  these savings made the policy  inappropriate for them. 
Having PPI wouldve  allowed  them to use their savings to meet their other household 
expenses, knowing  that their mortgage repayments could  be met by the PPI cover. I 
think this wouldve been important to them as Mrs H also worked  for Mr Hs 
company, in an administrative capacity, so if he wasnt working this wouldve likely  
affected her earnings as well.   
 I dont know what Mr and Mrs H were told about the costs  of the policy. It was a 
monthly paid policy and they couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out 
financially. It appeared affordable. So, I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve thought the 
policy worth  the cost to them in their circumstances.
Ive taken into account everything  that Mr and Mrs H have said,  but this doesnt change 
my view. I dont think theyve lost out because of any problems with the sale of the policy 
so it follows that I dont uphold their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15152103
Ref: DRN1515210