K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) 
has offered to settle their complaint about  a mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside a loan.
background
In January 2002 Mr and Mrs B took out a loan with BoS and alongside it took out a PPI 
policy. The policy  was paid for by monthly premiums. The loan was settled early  in June 
2003 and the PPI cancelled.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B complained the PPI was mis-sold. BoS agreed to uphold  their 
complaint and offered £622.16 in compensation after tax. Mr and Mrs B said they thought  
they had paid more than this for the PPI so brought  their complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said they thought what BoS had offered in compensation was fair to refund 
all the costs paid plus pay some compensatory interest. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. Mr and Mrs B are represented by a 
third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BoS has agreed  to uphold the complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold  Im not in this decision 
looking at how it came to be sold to Mr and Mrs B. Im only considering  if what has been  
offered in compensation is fair.
BoS records show the loan was taken  out in January 2002 and repaid in June 2003.  The PPI 
was paid by monthly  premiums of £17.07 and no interest was charged on these. BoS has 
worked out the total premiums paid for the time the policy was active and added  8% simple 
interest to compensate  Mr and Mrs B for the time they were out of pocket for any of the 
premiums from the date of payment to the date of final settlement.
In total this came to £700.98 and then BoS had to take income tax off the compensatory  
interest as required by HM Revenue  and Customs. The net amount  then due to 
Mr and Mrs B was £622.16.
Im satisfied that BoS has worked out fair compensation including  the costs  paid for the PPI 
and some compensatory interest  for Mr and Mrs B being out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs B have  said they feel the offer is too low but have not provided  any evidence  
they paid more than BoS has calculated. And as BoS knowns the monthly premium paid I 
cannot see why Mr and Mrs B would have paid more.
So I think that what BoS has offered in compensation is fair.
Ref: DRN11658262my final decision
Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has offered  to settle  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is 
fair and Im not telling it to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1165826