K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home buildings  and contents 
insurance with BISL Limited.
background
Mr Cs insurance  policy  with BISL  started in 2007. It initially  cost £444 for the year.  The next 
year, 2008,  it cost £495. In 2018, the renewal  quote was for £946.  
Ive quoted the total price, which includes the cost of additional cover such as family legal 
protection, and the interest added  when paying  monthly. 
In 2018, Mr C looked online and found  he could get insurance much cheaper,  including  from 
BISL, which quoted him £294.  Mr C then complained  and asked for a refund of the 
difference between  what  hed paid each year and what he wouldve been  charged as a new 
customer. 
Mr C also pointed to a claim  being  recorded on the policy. He thinks  this is unfair, as he 
rejected the settlement that was offered and never cashed the cheque.
BISL said Mr Cs premiums  had been  calculated correctly. And that its pricing  does not 
unfairly discriminate  against longstanding  customers who dont engage with the price of their 
policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr C disagreed,  so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  how to price risk and what  an insurance policy  
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether BISL has treated Mr C fairly 
throughout the period  he held its insurance  policy.
If I find that BISL hasnt  treated Mr C fairly, I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair. But in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. And Ill explain why.
We normally look at complaints like this against  the underwriter or insurer of the policy.  BISL 
isnt an underwriter or insurer, but I think it is responsible for the price  Mr C paid. This is 
because, while there  was an underwriter  which set an underlying price for taking on the risk 
of paying claims,  BISL in practice  incurred almost all of the other costs associated  with the 
policy, such as its design, distribution and administration.  So, BISL  ultimately set the price  
Mr C paid for his policy.
A business hasnt  necessarily done  anything wrong  by changing the premium  at renewal  
and there  are often  legitimate reasons for doing  so. Whether  that be due to a change  in the 
perceived risks or the other costs of providing  the policy. But where a business knew,  or 
ought reasonably  to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals process, 
Ref: DRN18450512it should have  taken care to make sure it treated these consumers fairly  and that it didnt 
take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing the premiums just because they 
didnt engage  with the cost. 
When Mr C took out his policy there was an introductory discount.  This isnt uncommon and 
policies may well initially be priced lower to attract  new customers. I dont  think  its unfair for 
an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent years.  
BISL has provided me with information  which shows how it set the price of the policy. I cant 
share this with Mr C because it is commercially sensitive. But Im satisfied that how BISL set 
the price was designed to ensure that it recouped the initial  discount  from him in the same 
way it would have  for any customer, as well as reflecting the underlying risk price set by the 
insurer. Because of this, I dont think it was the case that BISL treated Mr C unfairly when  it 
set the price of the policy. 
Mr C found he could  get insurance  from BISL for much less when he checked  online. So, I 
fully understand  why this makes him think he was being treated unfairly. But, as mentioned 
above, policies  are often discounted in order to obtain new customers. That means that a 
new customer will often  be paying  less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. 
The level of discount can vary significantly depending on the competitiveness of the market 
at the time, and a business appetite for new business. So, the price  he was quoted  after 
looking online is not necessarily reflective  of what he might have been quoted in other years. 
And just because it was much less than he was quoted for his renewal,  I dont  think  that 
means the price  he was charged over the years was unfair.
With regards the claim that was recorded on the policy, I dont think this was unreasonable. 
It is clear that Mr C did make a claim. That he was unhappy with the settlement offered,  and 
rejected this, doesnt change the fact that he suffered a loss. This is the sort of thing that an 
insurer would normally record because it can impact  on how it views the risk of providing 
insurance. So, I dont  think it would be unreasonable for such a loss to be taken into account 
when setting the premiums. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1845051