K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) made errors and gave 
them incorrect information about  their mortgage payments and outstanding balance.
background
Mr and Mrs P paid a lump sum of £17,500 off their mortgage in early August 2018, just after 
their fixed  rate had come to an end. Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account is part repayment and 
part interest only.
Mr P has explained that this lump sum payment  should have been credited to the interest 
only sub-account on their mortgage. But, due to an error by Halifax,  some of the payment 
was credited to their repayment sub-account.
Mr and Mrs P noticed this error and phoned Halifax about it on 20 August 2018.The  
mortgage account was re-worked  and the whole payment was applied to the interest only 
sub account.
Halifaxs records show that Mr P called on 1 September  2018  and asked it to keep their 
monthly mortgage payments at £227.18 per month. Unfortunately Halifax made another  
error and amended Mr and Mrs Ps monthly  payment to their current payment, plus a further 
£227.18.
When this error came  to light in early October  2018, Mr P rang Halifax  again. He complained  
about the mistakes  and poor service.
It appears that Mr P was also given incorrect information about  how much the contractual  
monthly payment  (CMP) was for the mortgage. Mr P says he was initially  told that the CMP 
would be approximately  £132 per month, taking account of the part repayment that had been 
made. But Halifax then said the CMP was actually  £194.13 per month.
Mr P queried this. In particular he was concerned that the CMP did not reflect  the £17,500 
part repayment he had made towards  the mortgage.
Halifax apologised for the problems its errors had caused. It refunded  the amount it had 
taken above the monthly  payment Mr and Mrs P wanted to make,  plus interest  on this 
amount. It also paid Mr and Mr P £150 (in addition to £75 it had paid them  in early 
September 2018) for the trouble and upset its errors had caused.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  feel that the problems Halifaxs errors had caused had been fully 
addressed. They brought  their complaint to this service. In particular, they explained they 
were concerned that the CMP they had been  quoted was incorrect.
Mr P said he had found Halifaxs staff difficult to deal with and unwilling to accept that there 
was a problem.  Mrs P also said she felt the redress Halifax had paid was too low.
Our investigator noted that Halifax had paid Mr and Mrs P a total of £225  for the trouble and 
upset its errors and poor service had caused. He said he felt this was fair and he didnt think 
Halifax needed to pay more.
Ref: DRN10570692He noted that the errors Halifax had made  had been  resolved within  a reasonable time 
frame. And he said Mr and Mrs P hadnt  suffered a financial loss as they mortgage account 
had been put back into the position it would have  been in, but for the errors.
He also said that Halifax had confirmed that the CMP for Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  was 
£194.13. He said it had provided evidence  from its systems to support this.
Mr and Mrs P did not accept our investigators view. They reiterated that they felt their 
contractual monthly payment  was incorrect.
In particular, Mr P provided  a copy of a letter from Halifax dated July 2018 that set out their 
CMP would  be £189.06 from the 1 August 2018   this was shortly before they made the part 
repayment of £17,500  towards their mortgage.  Mr P reiterated that he didnt think  it was 
possible that the CMP could have increased  by around £5 per month after a large  capital 
payment towards  the outstanding balance.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 May 2019. In it I said my provisional 
view was that I thought  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  should be upheld. 
I noted that it was not in dispute  that Halifax has made a number  of errors when 
administering Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage.
It had accepted that it did not apply the part repayment correctly. This error  was only 
identified when Mr and Mrs P spotted that there  was problem. It also incorrectly increased 
their monthly mortgage payment after the part repayment had been  made,  despite  having 
been told by Mr P that the payment was to remain  the same.
I said I could see that these errors must  have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs P. Halifax had 
apologised for its errors and said it had put them right.  It also paid Mr and Mrs P a total of 
£225 for the trouble and upset caused.  I said I thought  this would have been fair 
compensation, if all the errors had been corrected.
But Halifax  then made further errors when it repeatedly claimed that the CMP was £194.13  
following the payment  of £17,500 towards  the outstanding mortgage balance.
I noted it had even provided information  to this service  that it said showed that the CMP had 
 as Mr P noted  apparently increased following the part repayment  of £17,500.
Like Mr P, I did not see how the CMP could  possibly have increased following the capital 
repayment that had been made towards  the mortgage. I also noted that Mr and Mrs P had 
waited until after their fixed rate mortgage  product had ended,  before they made the part 
repayment, so it did not appear that this was the cause of the confusion.
I asked Halifax to re-consider its position as I did not see how the CMP figure it had provided 
could be correct.
Halifax responded to say that the CMP quoted  of £194.13 was, in fact, incorrect.  It said the 
mortgage balance  hadnt been updated correctly following  the part repayment of £17,500.
It also said Mr P had recently called it and it had carried  out a manual update of the monthly 
payments at his request. Following  this update  it had confirmed to Mr and Mrs P that the 
Ref: DRN10570693CMP was £129.02  from April 2019,  based on their current outstanding mortgage  balance, 
term and interest rate.
In the meantime Mr P also contacted our investigator  to say that he had phoned Halifax as 
his mortgage was due to end shortly. He said he had asked it what the outstanding balance  
might be at the end of mortgage term, if he continued to pay his regular payment of £227.18 
each month.
Mr P said he had queried the CMP again. In particular he said he had again asked Halifax  to 
check the interest due on the interest only sub-account. When he (again) explained to 
Halifax why he didnt  think the CMP it had quoted of £194.13 was correct, the member of 
staff said she would  check the calculations. Mr P then received a letter to say that his CMP 
was in fact £129.02  as Mr P had said was the case  from the outset.
Based on the corrected  CMP Mr and Mrs P are currently  making a regular overpayment  of 
£98.16 per month as their monthly payment is £227.18.
Mr P asked me how he could be sure that the recalculation Halifax had carried  out, and final 
settlement figure it had provided, had taken  into account its errors.
Having considered all that had been  said and provided about this complaint I said I was of 
the view that rather  than considering Mr and Mrs Ps concerns that the CMP shouldnt  have 
increased after a part repayment, Halifax instead just repeated that the CMP figure must be 
correct. I said I thought this was particularly poor service given that Mr and Mrs P had 
already had to contact  Halifax  about two separate errors it had made when  administering 
their mortgage account.
My provisional decision was that Mr and Mrs P should be compensated for the trouble and 
inconvenience they had experienced as a result of Halifaxs repeated  refusal to accept  that 
the CMP figure it had quoted must be incorrect. 
In order to resolve this matter I said I thought  Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs P a further 
£200, in addition to the £225 it has already paid them  for the other errors it made in 
administering their account.
I said I also thought  that Halifax should provide  Mr and Mrs P with a full breakdown  of all the 
payments and interest applied to both sub accounts of their mortgage from 1 August 2018,  
to the date of my decision. I said this would  allow Mr and Mrs P to check that all payments 
have now been  correctly applied and the regular overpayments they had made each month  
had reduced the mortgage balance by the full amount of the overpayment.
Halifax responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr P also responded.  He said he was pleased that I was minded to uphold his complaint. 
But he said he felt I had missed some important detail in my summary of his complaint. He 
said he felt the inclusion  of this information fundamentally changes  the seriousness  of the 
abject failure and negligence of the Halifax in resolving my complaint in full, in particular the 
correction of my CMP.
In particular Mr P said my summary  made  no mention that the Halifax were made aware 
of the incorrect CMP in my telephone call to them on 01/09/2018 and more importantly, their 
response to this. During the call they acknowledged  my CMP as being wrong and then 
Ref: DRN10570694agreed to correct it but then failed to do so. Their mistake was acknowledged for a second 
time at a later date and I was reassured  that the error would be put right.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded to change the view I reached in my provision  decision.  Ill 
explain why.
Mr P says he feels I missed some important  detail when  I considered  his complaint.  In 
particular he says I didnt  refer to the CMP when I noted his call with Halifax  on 1 September 
2018. Mr P says he told Halifax that the CMP was incorrect  and it had agreed to correct it 
but then failed to do so. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels that the points he made in relation to the CMP on 1 September  
2018 were not considered, but I would like to confirm that I did consider all the errors Halifax 
made and the incorrect information it provided  when  considering this complaint and reaching 
my provisional decision.
In the background to my provisional decision on Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint I said:
Halifaxs records show that Mr P called on 1 September  2018  and asked it to keep their 
monthly mortgage payments at £227.18 per month. Unfortunately Halifax made another  
error and amended Mr and Mrs Ps monthly  payment to their current payment, plus a further 
£227.18.
When this error came  to light in early October  2018, Mr P rang Halifax  again. He complained  
about the mistakes  and poor service.
It appears  that Mr P was also given incorrect information about how much  the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) was for the mortgage.  Mr P says he was initially 
told that the CMP would be approximately  £132 per month, taking account of the part 
repayment that had been made. But Halifax then said the CMP was actually  £194.13 per 
month.
(bold is my emphasis)
I apologise if Mr P feels my summary of his complaint was not sufficiently clear. But, as the 
above extract shows, I did consider the CMP issues when I noted Mr Ps calls with Halifax 
on 1 September  2018 and in early  October 2018. 
I also set out in my provisional decision that Halifax did not correct the CMP and instead re-
iterated that the CMP was £194.13  per month.  In particular I said:
But Halifax  then made further errors when it repeatedly claimed that the CMP was £194.13  
following the payment  of £17,500 towards  the outstanding mortgage balance.
In view of this I dont agree that I made no mention that the Halifax were  made  aware of 
the incorrect CMP in my telephone call to them on 01/09/2018  and more importantly, their 
response to this.
Ref: DRN10570695I appreciate that Mr P feels the errors Halifax made  were very serious. And when 
considering this complaint I was mindful of the time Mr P had to spend  trying to get Halifax to 
put matters right. But I must also take into account  that Mr and Mrs P have not suffered any 
financial loss as a result of the errors  Halifax made as their mortgage account has been put 
back into the position it would have been in, but for the errors.
Having re-considered all the information  available I am not minded to depart  from the view I 
reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter I order  Bank  of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mr and Mrs P a further £200 in addition  to the £225 it 
has already paid them for its poor service.
It should also provide  Mr and Mrs P with a full breakdown of all payments and interest 
applied to both sub accounts of their mortgage  from 1 August 2018 to the date of this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1057069