K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about irresponsible lending by Vanquis Bank  Limited, which contributed to 
charges and interest on her account and negative information on her credit  file.
background
Miss P opened a credit card account with Vanquis  in 2009. She considers it was 
irresponsible of the bank to give her the card because of her poor credit  rating, and she 
incurred charges and interest on the account. It eventually defaulted and this was recorded 
on Miss Ps credit file.
Our adjudicator said our rules meant he could only look at what  had happened on the 
account since 2013. He didnt find that Miss P had told Vanquis she thought  its lending  was 
irresponsible after it had sent her a default  notice in July 2013. 
He was also satisfied  that interest  and charges had been applied in line with the account 
terms. So the adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Miss P didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator has explained, our rules mean that I can only consider whats happened 
on Miss Ps account during the six years before she brought her complaint to this service. So 
I can look at events since 27 March  2013, but not before  that date.
Vanquis sent Miss P a notice of default in July 2013. I cant see that Miss P contacted  
Vanquis at that point,  and the account was passed  to a debt collection agency  shortly 
afterwards.
Miss Ps credit file shows a default was registered  on her credit  file in January  2014.  So I 
cant safely say that the default has been registered on her file for more than six years,  as 
Miss P suggests.
Miss P received a refund in connection  with a repayment plan she had on the account. That 
was because Vanquis said it couldve done a better  job of explaining how interest was 
charged on that plan.
But I understand there was a balance remaining on the account after the refund was made.  
So that point doesnt persuade me that the default was wrongly entered  on Miss Ps credit 
file.
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that interest  and charges  werent charged in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions, even if Vanquiss  explanation of the repayment plan interest 
couldve been clearer.
Ref: DRN10469092So overall, I dont  think there are any reasonable grounds on which  I can uphold Miss Ps 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1046909