K822xcomplaint
Mr W complained  to HSBC UK Bank Plc about problems he encountered  transferring money  
between his HSBC  accounts held in Brazil, France and the UK. 
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  10 January 
2020. My provisional  decision  is attached below and forms part of my final decision. 
HSBC UK accepted  my decision but Mr W didnt. Mr W made a number of points in 
response, in summary he said: 
None of HSBC  UKs  response letters apart  from the most recent should be 
considered a final response. Because thats the only one thats provided any finality. 
Although several of the issues were with HSBC France  and Brazil,  these problems 
necessitated his recourse to HSBC UK.
On a number  of occasions  HSBCs Global View  mechanism  also failed and the whole  
point of the Premier  client status  Mr W had was that there  should  be seamless 
operation between the various  HSBC accounts. HSBC admits  that the issue  hangs 
very firmly on the holding of three premium status  accounts which  are inter-
connected. No client walks into HSBC  UK (or any other HSBC) on the understanding  
that when it comes to day-to-day operations across  HSBC  accounts held by that 
customer then if the system  does  not work it is just tough and their "home" provider  - 
HSBC UK - washes  its hands  of the entire  affair.
HSBC UK shouldnt have waited so long to try to seek out the information from HSBC 
Brazil and the delay  meant that it was trying to obtain information  after HSBC  Brazil 
had been sold - meaning it was unlikely to obtain  anything useful.  
There have been refunds  made  regarding problems with the secure key. But the 
majority of the payments  made  late and similar  problems arising from this related to 
being unable  to make  transfers - and these  costs arose primarily in Brazil and 
France, albeit  some in the UK. 
HSBC UK, didnt phone him directly in France,  despite having his contact details. 
Instead it phoned his parents in the UK and said it was difficult to contact him.
Hes not had any success in following this up directly with HSBC France  or Brazil. 
The £1000 compensation doesnt cover even half of the expenses incurred despite  
being intended to cover "the issues Mr W experienced across all three accounts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont see any reason to 
reach a different outcome  to my provisional  decision. Ive explained why in more detail 
below.  
Ref: DRN10705882I can see that the responses  HSBC UK issued  ultimately didnt resolve  things for Mr W. But 
its responses did meet the definition of a final response as set out in the DISP  Rules.  And 
whether or not HSBC UKs responses should be deemed final responses  doesnt have any 
impact on what  I think a fair resolution  to the complaint is. HSBC UK has consented to us 
looking at Mr Ws concerns  regarding his HSBC UK accounts, so there  is no jurisdiction 
issue with regard to time limits which prevents  me from looking into Mr Ws complaint. 
 
I appreciate the reasons Mr W has provided  for choosing HSBC to provide his banking  
services and utilise the international services it offers.  And I can understand why Mr W would 
expect HSBC UK to try and help as far as it could  with the issues he was experiencing. But 
our jurisdiction is not something I can choose to apply but something I need to consider 
before investigating  any complaint. 
In Mr Ws cases  hes accepted that transfers  between his accounts held in France and Brazil  
werent within our territorial jurisdiction to consider. Because they werent complaints about 
activities which are carried on from an establishment in the United Kingdom. This means I 
can only consider  complaints about  issues Mr W experienced with his HSBC UK account 
whether that be accessing it or transferring funds  to/from it. 
Complaint handling  isnt in its own right a regulated activity  - and I can only consider 
complaint handling when  its connected  to a regulated activity. So, I can consider how HSBC 
UK handled Mr Ws concerns about  transfers  to and from his HSBC UK account.  But I cant  
consider how HSBC UK handled Mr Ws complaints  about HSBC Brazil and France  
including whether it delayed obtaining  information from HSBC Brazil.  This is because HSBC  
Brazil and France werent carrying out activities regulated in the UK.
I appreciate that Mr W hasnt received all the costs he says he incurred as a result of the 
issues he experienced, but from the evidence Ive seen he has been reimbursed for the 
costs he incurred as a result of issues with his HSBC UK account. So, Im not making any 
additional award in this respect. 
I can see that it must be frustrating that Mr W hasnt  been able to progress his complaints 
with HSBC Brazil and France  to his satisfaction,  but thats not something  I can hold HSBC 
UK responsible for. And as I explained in my provisional decision,  I think  the compensation 
payment hes received  is more than I would award  solely for the issues hes experienced 
with his HSBC  UK account - which includes the point  Mr W makes about HSBC  UK not 
using the appropriate contact details  to get in touch with him. So, Im not asking HSBC UK to 
do anything else to put this matter right. Mr W should contact HSBC  UK directly to accept 
this offer.  
my final decision
I think HSBC UK Bank PLCs offer to pay Mr W £1,000 compensation to put things right is 
fair and reasonable, so Im not asking it to pay anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Chris Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10705883
Ref: DRN10705884my provisional decision
background
Mr W moved to Brazil for work around September 2013. He held accounts with HSBC 
France, UK and Brazil.  He could access all the accounts through HSBCs Global View. But 
Mr W had problems completing  transfers between the accounts, predominantly between  the 
accounts held in France and Brazil; several transactions  didnt go through  at all or were 
severely delayed.   
To access the accounts held in France and Brazil Mr W needed to use a smart phone app 
which he says didnt  work properly and would  often have to be reinstalled. And at certain 
points the app provided restricted  access to Global View or didnt  show all the accounts.
To access the UK account Mr W needed a smart key rather  than the app. He also 
encountered some  problems with this, and a new smart key needed to be posted to him from 
the UK. But this took several  months to arrive in Brazil.
Mr W says the problems  transferring funds  caused  him a number of issues  including  charges 
being applied  to accounts after they went overdrawn. He says some of his rent payments 
were also made late and he was unable to complete a flight  purchase.  
Mr W complained  to HSBC in the UK, France and Brazil  about  his experiences and says he 
spent several hours doing so. He said that the impact of the problems he experienced 
contributed to him having to leave  Brazil  much  earlier than planned.   
HSBC UK issued a final response on 19 February  2014. This explained that it would try and 
help Mr W with the issues he experienced with his accounts held in France and Brazil, but it 
may not be able to. HSBC UK also confirmed  that Mr W had received the secure key and it 
had refunded the account charges that had been  applied to his HSBC UK account, because  
he was unable to access it without the secure  key. 
 
HSBC UK issued another final response  on 24 September 2015. It explained it would 
forward Mr Ws complaint  about the accounts held in France  and Brazil on to the correct 
people to deal with them on receipt of a timeline  of events.  And because  Mr W was in the 
process of moving  back to France,  it said he should  attempt  to complete transfers between 
his UK and France accounts and get back in touch if he had any further  issues.  
A further  final response was sent on 17 January 2018 which explained  that HSBC  UK had 
found it difficult to obtain  any information about  the accounts held in France and Brazil. But it 
said it would  like to discuss the complaint  with him further to try and agree some 
compensation to repair their relationship.  
Each of the final responses above provided Mr W with six months  to contact this service if he 
remained unhappy with HSBC UKs  response.  The final response  sent in January 2018 also 
explained that if Mr W didnt contact this service  within the six-month  time period, that HSBC 
wouldnt consent to our service considering the complaint. 
Mr W contacted  our service in April 2019  and asked us to investigate his complaint. 
The investigator concluded it wasnt a complaint we can consider.  She explained that the 
transfers between  Mr Ws accounts  held in France and Brazil werent within our territorial 
Ref: DRN10705885jurisdiction to consider.  This was because they werent complaints about activities which are 
carried on from an establishment in the United  Kingdom. 
She also explained that we could consider complaints about transfers to or from Mr Ws 
account with HSBC UK. But HSBC UK hadnt  consented to us looking into the complaint 
because it was brought more than six months after it issued Mr W a final response.  
Mr W accepted her explanation about  our territorial jurisdiction. But he didnt accept that the 
complaint about  HSBC  UK had been brought too late. So, he requested an ombudsman  
review the complaint to decide if it one our service can consider. 
While the case was waiting to be reviewed by an ombudsman HSBC UK offered Mr W 
£1,000 compensation, for the issues hed experienced across all three accounts. HSBC  UK 
also consented to our service considering any of the events  which occurred in the UK which 
were covered in its response. 
Mr W didnt accept HSBCs offer and explained  that because  of the issues with his HSBC 
accounts hed:
incurred charges of around 2,500 euros 
left his job in Brazil  significantly earlier than planned
spent hundreds of hours dealing with the issue 
Mr W explained that he thought 5,000 euros  in total would be fair compensation to put things 
right. HSBC  UK didnt agree to increase its offer. So, the case  has been  passed to me to 
determine whether  its one we can consider.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think HSBC UKs offer is 
fair, so Im not asking it to do anything else to put things right.  
Both parties  have accepted Mr Ws complaints  about  problems  transferring funds between  
his accounts held in France and Brazil are outside of this services jurisdiction. So, when  
looking at this complaint  I can only consider the impact of the issues  Mr W experienced with 
his UK account and his dealings with HSBC UK to resolve those  issues.  
I can see the response HSBC UK sent Mr W in July 2019 did address the issues Mr W had 
with the account key and that hed spent a significant amount of time contacting and working 
with HSBC UK to resolve issues. 
I can see the issues regarding the secure key and access to Mr Ws HSBC UK account were  
addressed in the original final response  which was sent in February 2014 and any charges 
Mr W incurred  as a result of that issue were  refunded. So, I think  any financial loss 
experienced as a result of the delay in receiving the account key was put right.   
Mr W has said that he also experienced issues transferring money  to and from his UK 
account. And even  when  he received  the account  key, he would struggle to access  Global 
View. But the detailed chronology Mr Ws provided and the majority of the correspondence 
between him and HSBC  focuses  on this being an issue between his accounts in France  and 
Brazil. I havent  seen anything which demonstrates what other  issues  Mr W experienced with 
the account key, his HSBC UK account  or their direct impact  on Mr W.   
Ref: DRN10705886It seems  that most of the issues Mr W experienced with his HSBC UK account  were 
addressed in February 2014. And I can see that the final responses sent in September 2015  
and January 2018 focus solely on issues regarding the Brazil and France  accounts. So, I 
think most of the customer  service  issues Mr W has experienced are also in relation to the 
problems with his accounts in France and Brazil. 
I appreciate that Mr W has had a very frustrating experience trying to get the issues with his 
three accounts sorted. And the offer HSBC UK has made Mr W is intended  to compensate  
him for the issues  he experienced across all three  accounts. But the offer has been made as 
a lump sum and hasnt  been broken down into whats for issues  experienced in each 
different territory  so I can only consider whether  £1,000  is sufficient compensation for the 
experience with his HSBC  UK account. 
From what  Ive seen this offer along with the refund of charges Mr W incurred while  waiting 
to receive his account key is more than I would  award in similar circumstances. So, Im not 
recommending Mr W receives any further compensation. 
my provisional decision
Subject to any further evidence I receive from either side, I think HSBC  UK Bank Plcs offer 
is fair compensation to put things  right. So, Im not minded to make  an additional award 
against it. 
Mr W should contact HSBC UK Bank Plc directly  if hed like to accept  the offer.
Ref: DRN1070588