K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In March 1999, Mr M took out a joint personal loan and was also sold a single  premium  PPI 
policy to protect his repayments. Mr M was covered against accidents,  sickness and 
unemployment. The loan ended in 2004.
Mr M says Nationwide mis-sold him the PPI policy. He says it was a compulsory requirement 
to have the insurance and he was given the impression  the loan wouldnt go through  if he 
didnt have it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint  and I will explain why.
I think Nationwide made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to have it. I say 
this because, although I cant  be sure what happened, I can see on the loan application form 
he signed Nationwide made it clear that PPI was optional. Underneath a heading protecting  
your repayments is a yes and no box and in this case Mr M has signed in the box 
underneath the statement  for yes. So, although I do have  regard for what  Mr M has said, 
I am persuaded that the PPI policy was presented as optional and he took it by signing 
separately for it.
Nationwide says it did not advise Mr M to take out the policy  but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him anyway based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances during the times of 
sale. Mr M was eligible for it and although he says he had 3 months sick pay, the policy 
would have been useful in an extended  time of need  by paying the loan repayments if he 
was unemployed  or if he couldnt  work because of accident or sickness.  Mr M didnt have  
enough provisions  that it would  have  meant  he didnt have at least some need  for the cover 
the policy provided.
If the loan had been repaid early  Mr M would have been given a pro-rata refund so there were 
no issues regarding this. So that feature didnt make the policy unsuitable  for him.
Mr M was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations given in the terms and 
conditions such as any to do with a pre-existing medical condition.
Ref: DRN19757702After looking at the loan agreement I think Mr M was given clear costs  at the time of sale. Mr 
M says he was not properly informed at the time but I dont  think  it would have made  a 
difference to his decision to take the policy, even if he hadnt been,  for the same  reasons 
that I have  given above as to why the policy was suitable. 
On balance, I think Mr M has not been mis-sold  PPI by Nationwide  in 1999.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1975770