K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) when she took out
a store  card in July 1999.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In July 1999 Mrs S applied for a store card by completing an application form. At the same  
time she was sold a PPI policy to protect her card payments.
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mrs S owed on her store  card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs S couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs S complaint. Mrs S disagreed  so the complaint  comes to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs S signed and I can see that she signed the 
agreement twice  once for the store card and another time for PPI. If she didnt want to take 
out the PPI, I think Mrs S couldve chosen  not to sign the relevant section of the agreement.  
And Ive noted  that two other sections of the application form werent completed indicating 
she didnt want two other optional features  card protection and an additional card holder. 
So I think Mrs S knew  the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this was a 
monthly policy and wouldve appeared on her monthly store  card statements, Mrs S couldve 
cancelled it at any time if she didnt want it or she found it unaffordable.
Theres limited  information available to me about  what happened at the time of sale.  So I 
dont know what may or may not have been  said. Given  the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think FICL advised  Mrs S to take out the PPI. This means FICL 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mrs S circumstances. But it still had to 
provide her with clear  information about  the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to take 
it out - I cant say that FICL did this.
I dont know exactly what information  Mrs S received about the policy  at the time of sale. 
Even if I were to accept  that Mrs S wasnt given  clear  enough  information  about the policy,  I 
dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Mrs S was eligible for the policy  and doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made  it difficult  for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health.  Mrs S says she wouldve received some sick pay 
Ref: DRN18474422if she wasnt working  but I think the policy couldve proved useful to Mrs S if she had an 
accident, became  ill or lost her job. It wouldve  paid out in addition to any occupational sick 
pay and for longer. She could  also have  benefitted  from life cover and price and purchase 
protection.
Im not satisfied that FICL  made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs S to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think  if      
Mrs S had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought  the policy  
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance  
was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont  think FICL did everything  it needed  to when it sold the policy  to Mrs S. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about  taking the PPI and I think  she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed  been properly informed about it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1847442