K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society led them  to believe their decreasing 
term assurance policy included Total and Permanent Disability  (TPD)  benefit. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 2019. A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision  so I wont repeat it in full here. In summary, I said I intended to uphold  this 
complaint in part. Mr and Mrs H applied for a decreasing term assurance policy  which 
included TPD benefit. The insurer  said it declined  to offer TPD benefit policy  because  Mrs H 
suffered from arthritis, and offered three alternative  policies instead. Mr and Mrs H said they 
werent made aware of these counter-proposals  by Nationwide and, having considered the 
evidence available, I didnt think it was likely  Nationwide  discussed these with them.  
I said I intended to recommend  Nationwide pay Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  it caused. I didnt agree with our investigators recommendation that 
Nationwide refund the difference  between the policy premiums Mr and Mrs H paid for their 
policy and a cheaper, life assurance only policy that Mr and Mrs H say they wouldve taken 
out for the reasons explained in my provisional decision. 
Nationwide had no further comments to add to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H said,  
in summary, that Nationwide  was not to blame for what happened. Mr and Mrs H gave 
detailed reasons as to why they think the insurer was at fault. They  also said Nationwide  
didnt make them aware of the three  counter-proposals  or exclusions, which  was unfair.  
They said they wouldnt have  taken out their policy if theyd been made aware it did not 
include TPD benefit or cover arthritis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having now reviewed the case afresh, I dont intend  to depart from the conclusion reached in 
my provisional decision. I realise my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs H but Ill explain 
why I dont think their response  to my provisional  decision  changes the outcome of their 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H reiterated they werent made aware  of the counter-proposals by Nationwide. 
And I accepted their testimony as explained  in my provisional decision, and recommended 
Nationwide pay them £500 compensation  to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN14559662I know Mr and Mrs H said they wouldnt have taken  out the policy had they been  made  
aware Mrs H couldnt make a claim as a result of her arthritis. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, Mr and Mrs H indicated theyre  not sure what else they would have done, but 
suggested they may have taken a cheaper life-assurance  only policy  theyve since  
cancelled their policy, so have no life or CIC cover at present. But Ive not found Mr and 
Mrs Hs testimony  to be detailed or persuasive about what they would  have done  differently 
at the time the policy was sold in 2013. They clearly wanted some  form of cover,  and I dont 
think the recommendation of a policy with life and CIC cover was an unreasonable one.
I remain of the view that there isnt enough  evidence to support Mr and Mrs Hs testimony 
that TPD cover was more  important to them than critical  illness cover at the time.  The policy 
provided lots of benefits that may have been  useful  had Mr or Mrs H become  ill with a critical 
illness covered under  their policy or if either  of them died unexpectedly within the policy  
term. So Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H wouldve  taken a cheaper  policy  elsewhere if 
theyd known they couldnt get TPD cover for Mrs H with the insurer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint in part, 
and require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14559663Provisional decision of 7 August 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society led them  to believe their decreasing 
term assurance policy included Total and Permanent Disability  benefit. 
background
In March 2013, Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. As part of the 
process, Mr and Mrs H asked Nationwide about  life cover for their mortgage  which they 
thought would be expensive as Mrs H had arthritis.  
On 29 May 2013, Nationwide provided Mr and Mrs H with a quote for a decreasing  term 
assurance policy with life cover, Critical Illness Cover (CIC) and Total and Permanent 
Disability (TPD)  benefit with a thirty  year term. The insurance policy was provided  by a third 
party insurer. Under the heading  What benefits does  the plan provide? the quote said:
Total and Permanent Disability  cover with a Specified Work  Tasks  definition is 
included at £0.79 for [Mr and Mrs H] monthly. The cost will be removed if we decline 
this cover after underwriting.
Mr and Mrs H said they asked Nationwide  a lot of questions about the cover  to check it 
covered Mrs Hs arthritis. 
The insurer  said Nationwide saved Mr and Mrs Hs application details onto its system. It said 
its automated underwriting immediately declined TPD benefit  for Mrs H, because  of her 
arthritis. The insurer said its underwriting decision was instantaneous,  and three counter 
proposal quotations were  generated  immediately  for Nationwide to discuss  with 
Mr and Mrs H. The insurers options  were:
1.A joint policy with CIC cover, waiver of premium  for Mr H but no TPD benefit
2.A single policy  for Mr H with CIC, waiver  of premium and TPD 
3.A single policy  for Mrs H with CIC only.
The insurer  said its system  made it clear none of the counter proposals included  TPD benefit 
for Mrs H. The insurer  said its system required Nationwides adviser to either confirm 
Mr and Mrs Hs consent to buy one of the policies  it offered, reject  the policies or tick 
decide later. It provided a screenshot, which it says shows Nationwides  adviser selected 
decide later. Nationwide couldnt confirm whether or not it discussed these counter 
proposals with Mr and Mrs H  but the insurer said the fact the adviser selected 
decide later means its likely the adviser did discuss the options with Mr and Mrs H. 
On 1 June 2013, Nationwides  mortgage  adviser  recorded she recommended  a decreasing 
term assurance policy with CIC cover and waiver  of premium, saying the aim of this plan is 
to pay your mortgage off if you die or suffer a specified critical illness during the term of your 
mortgage I refer you to the Key Features  document for full plan details.
On 12 June 2013, the insurer  sent Mr and Mrs H a letter. It referred to their protection  
application and said their quote  was valid until 27 August 2013 and invited them  to get in 
touch if they had any questions.
Ref: DRN14559664The insurer  says Mr H called the insurer directly on 24 June  2013,  looking for an update. 
The insurer  said all of their counter proposals would have  been showing on its system.  It 
thought Mr H would have asked it to proceed  with the first proposal   the joint policy  as this 
is the application that was submitted. The two single policies  it offered  would have cost more 
than the joint policy  and Mr and Mrs H had asked for a joint policy  in the first place. It said 
its call centre agents do not give advice, and would merely have been processing a request.  
But as the insurer  no longer had a recording of the call, it couldnt say for certain what was 
discussed. 
The application submitted on 24 June 2013  named the policy applied for as Mortgage 
Decreasing Term Assurance  with Critical Illness Cover  (Waiver)  and listed  the benefits  as:
Waiver Second Client
Permanent and Total  Incapacity No
The insurer  then wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 24 June  2013, which  included  the subject line 
Mortgage Decreasing  Term Assurance  with Critical Illness Cover  (Waiver)  application.   
The letter went on to say Im pleased to confirm  we can offer [Mr H] the cover  that was 
applied for. We can offer [Mrs H] cover with an additional premium  applied. The insurer  said 
we strongly  suggest  that you talk to Nationwide Building Society  to decide which option to 
go ahead  with. 
Mr H then called the insurer  to discuss the policy. The insurer  deleted its recording of the call 
recently, but previously described the call to Mr H after he complained about the policy in 
2018. The insurer says the conversation was along  the following lines:
Mr H Me and my wife went in to Nationwide  and we got decreasing  term 
with critical illness,  and weve now received a letter saying we have 30 
days to make the decision. How much longer  do we have  left?
Call handler [Took Mr H through Data Protection checks] It was a Nationwide  and 
it was a revised quote.  [A staff member] from Nationwide  put the app 
through and has accepted with you as standard  terms but [Mrs H] non-
standard terms. The premium  rate was £64.62. We need you to decide 
if you want to proceed with this.
Mr H What  does  this cover for my wife?
Call handler She gets the same cover  as you but costs  more because of her 
medical details.  £156,745  for decreasing  term so the cover does go 
down throughout the term and includes critical illness cover. So if you 
are diagnosed with one of the listed  critical illness covers we would  
pay out.
Mr H I was just worried  about  my wifes arthritis.
Call handler There is no exclusion, Mrs cant have waiver of premium but she can 
have the same cover  as you just an added premium.  
Call ends
Ref: DRN14559665The insurer  sent Mr and Mrs H a copy of their policy schedule, which listed  their product as 
Decreasing Term Assurance with Critical Illness Cover  it didnt  show the policy  included  
TPD benefit. The policy schedule lists its policy  terms and conditions  reference as T&C 71. 
The terms and conditions  document  titled T&C  71 says Your  policy  schedule  will show if 
total and permanent disability is included in your policy and which of the following definitions  
apply to you. The insurer  says this made  it clear  Mr and Mrs Hs policy  didnt include TPD 
benefit. 
Section one of the terms and conditions also said:
This policy sets out your contract  with us and should be kept in a safe place. Words 
that appear in blue bold are explained  in section 12.
This policy consists of:
the policy schedule  and
these policy terms and conditions.
Your policy schedule is personalised to show the features, benefits and exclusions 
that apply to your policy.
Section three of the policy  lists the conditions and illnesses covered under  the critical illness 
policy. It doesnt include any mention of arthritis.
Mr H then returned the paperwork to the insurer. The insurer provided a screenshot of a 
document it received, which appears  to have been signed by Mr and Mrs H on 
30 June 2013.  The document  includes a ticked box next to an option, which  says We wish 
to continue with Mortgage Decreasing  Term Assurance with Critical Illness Cover (Waiver) 
for [Mr and Mrs H]. 
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs H tried to make  a claim on their policy for TPD benefit as Mrs H 
was no longer able to work because of her arthritis. Their insurer  declined their claim and 
informed them their policy didnt  include  TPD benefit. Mr and Mrs H complained  to their 
insurer, saying they thought their policy included TPD benefit  as they applied for it in 2013.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to their insurer, saying they werent  aware of the insurers  counter 
offers for policies  without TPD benefit  and the paperwork the insurer sent didnt make it 
clear their policy didnt include TPD benefit.  And when Mr H called the insurer  in June 2013 
to check it had got all their paperwork, and in November 2013  to update their address, no 
exclusions to the policy were mentioned.
The insurer  said it was Nationwides responsibility  to make Mr and Mrs H aware it declined  
their application  for a policy  with TPD benefit. The insurer said none  of the policy  
documentation, including the policy schedule, it sent to Mr and Mrs H mentioned  TPD benefit  
 and it had provided the policy Mr and Mrs H applied for. The insurer said Nationwide was 
responsible for selling the policy. Because the insurer didnt sell the policy, it said 
Mr and Mrs H should complain to Nationwide if they were unhappy about how the policy was 
sold. 
After Mr and Mrs H complained to Nationwide, it looked into what  happened. Nationwide 
asked the adviser  Mr and Mrs H saw in 2013  for her recollections of what was discussed.  
The adviser said she submitted a life insurance  policy for Mr and Mrs H, and would have 
made them aware their initial application  had been referred  to the insurer  for the 
underwriters to review because of Mrs Hs medical  history. The adviser said 
Ref: DRN14559666Once a decision was reached this would have  been provided to the customer in writing,  all 
documentation back then was sent to both customers  individually. The customer then had to 
check the details  and sign to say they were happy  to proceed with the policy and provide a 
start date. 
Nationwide said there is no supporting  evidence  or documents to show its adviser  discussed  
the counter offers with Mr and Mrs H before 24 June 2013  (when  the insurer submitted the 
application after Mr H called it for an update). And Nationwide also said Mr and Mrs H had 
enough time to review  the policy documentation  provided by the insurer  before the policy  
began. Nationwide disagreed that it mis-sold Mr and Mrs Hs policy
Mr and Mrs H asked our service to review their complaint against Nationwide  and their 
insurer. They said their priority was to get TPD cover for Mrs H  so wouldnt have bought 
their policy if theyd  been made aware  TPD benefit  wasnt included.  Instead, they would  
have tried to buy a policy from another provider that included TPD benefit.  They  said if they 
couldnt have  got TPD cover  for Mrs H elsewhere,  they would still have bought  a policy  with 
life assurance  but this policy would have been  cheaper than the policy they bought.  
Mr H and Mrs H were upset as they thought the outstanding balance of their mortgage would 
be paid off with the policys  TPD benefit,  and asked their insurer to honour their TPD cover, 
pay off their mortgage or offer a refund of the premiums they paid for their policy.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  against the insurer under a separate  
complaint reference  to try and form a view about whether either business made an error  by 
failing to inform  Mr and Mrs H about the insurers counter  proposals  after their original 
application for a policy  with TPD benefit  was declined.
Our investigator thought the insurer made Nationwide aware Mr and Mrs Hs initial 
application for a policy  with TPD cover was declined  and made  it aware of its three counter 
proposals. The investigator said the insurer expected  Nationwide to make  Mr and Mrs H 
aware of the counter proposals, and didnt think the insurer  had done anything wrong. 
As the initial application was declined automatically,  and the insurers  counter-proposals  
were available immediately, our investigator thought  Nationwide should  have  done  more to 
make Mr and Mrs H aware the counter proposals didnt include TPD benefit. Our investigator 
said the insurer expected Nationwide to discuss these  with Mr and Mrs H. 
Our investigator thought it was likely the insurers call handler would have pulled through the 
counter proposal  for the only joint policy offered when Mr H phoned asking to go ahead with 
his joint policy application. The investigator noted  the insurer says its call centre agents dont 
give advice, and the insurer expected Nationwide to have discussed its counter proposals 
with Mr and Mrs H after their initial application  was declined.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs H wouldve bought a policy with TPD cover from 
another insurer if theyd  been made  aware  the policy they bought  didnt include this benefit,  
or they wouldve bought a cheaper policy with life cover only.  To put things right, the 
investigator recommended Nationwide calculate  what Mr and Mrs H wouldve paid for a 
policy with life cover only and refund the difference between these premiums and the policy  
they paid for, plus simple  interest at 8% a year on the difference.  The investigator also 
recommended Nationwide pay Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced when they found out that they didnt have TPD cover.  
Ref: DRN14559667Nationwide accepted our investigators  view, but Mr and Mrs H didnt. Mr and Mrs H said 
they wouldve  looked for TPD elsewhere.  So this has come to me for a decision.  As part of 
my review  of this complaint, I asked another insurer whether it wouldve offered Mrs  H TPD 
cover if shed disclosed her condition at the time of her application. The insurer wouldnt 
have offered Mrs H TPD cover  and whilst  it wouldve  offered her critical illness  cover, it 
wouldve excluded any claim for arthritis.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to 
recommend the same  outcome  as our investigator. I realise my decision will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs H, but Ill explain my reasons.
Nationwide advised  Mr and Mrs H to seek a decreasing term assurance policy  that would 
cover the outstanding balance of the mortgage if Mr or Mrs H was unable to work because of 
a critical illness,  became totally and permanently disabled or died during the term of the 
policy.
The first quote Nationwide submitted (for a policy with TPD benefit) was immediately 
declined by the insurer on the basis it wouldnt offer Mrs H TPD cover because  she had 
arthritis. I think  the quote Nationwide  provided  made it sufficiently clear the TPD benefit may 
be removed after underwriting and the cost of that benefit would be removed.
Whilst it wouldnt necessarily have been clear to Nationwide why the cover  was declined, it 
was presented with three counter-offers from the insurer to discuss  with Mr and Mrs H. The 
screenshots of the counter-offers provided by the insurer show  the live policy Mr and Mrs H 
took out included waiver  of premium for Mr H (the second applicant), CIC cover for both Mr 
and Mrs H and no TPD cover   which matches the level of cover  listed on Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy schedule.
Mr and Mrs H say no one discussed the counter-offers  with them.  And I accept this is what  
likely happened as they were still unclear about  the type of policy they had by the time they 
wanted to make a claim in 2018. 
However, I dont agree  that Nationwide should refund the difference  between  the policy 
premiums Mr and Mrs H paid for their policy and a cheaper, life assurance  only policy that 
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldve taken  out. 
All of the policy wording  the insurer provided to Mr and Mrs H was, I believe, very clear  
about what was covered  by their policy. The insurer sent Mr and Mrs H a copy  of their policy  
schedule, which listed their product as Decreasing  Term Assurance with Critical Illness  
Cover  it didnt show the policy included TPD benefit. The policy schedule lists its policy 
terms and conditions reference as T&C  71. The terms and conditions document  titled  T&C 
71 says Your policy schedule will show if total and permanent disability is included  in your 
policy and which of the following definitions apply to you.  So I dont think  it was reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs H to infer they had TPD cover as the terms and conditions of their policy said 
the policy schedule  would  show if it included TP benefit  and their policy schedule made no 
mention of it.
The first quote Mr and Mrs H obtained  through Nationwide listed TPD as a benefit of the 
policy  but explained it may be removed during the underwriting  process, which is what 
Ref: DRN14559668happened here. I think it would be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs H to query  the absence 
of TPD benefit when their actual policy  documents they received  made  no mention of TPD 
benefit if they were  unclear about  the benefits  provided by their actual  policy  especially as 
I think the first quote was clear TPD benefit  may be removed at underwriting.  But as Ive said 
above, I think the policy documents were clear  enough in showing what  the benefits the 
policy did  and didnt  provide. 
Mr and Mrs H said their policy didnt show any exclusions. But a policy  doesnt list every  type 
of benefit it doesnt provide  it wouldnt,  for example, show  that the policy  didnt provide 
redundancy cover or travel insurance. Further, there  was no exclusion for arthritis  on the 
policy, so there was no need  for the insurer to list any such exclusion. Again, the policy  wont 
list every  medical condition it doesnt  cover.  So the insurer wasnt obliged to list that the 
policy didnt include TPD benefit  on the schedule. Instead, section three  of the policy set out 
every condition the policy did provide cover for. There was no mention of arthritis. So I dont 
think it was reasonable  to conclude that the policy provided cover for arthritis  based on the 
policy documents available.
And as Ive said above, I think  the policy schedule and terms and conditions  were clear 
enough that Mr and Mrs Hs policy didnt include TPD benefit  and I dont think  it reasonable 
for them to infer that from the policy documents provided.
If I were  to conclude either  Nationwide  or the insurer made  a mistake in leading  
Mr and Mrs H to believe Mrs H had TPD benefit  I would look to put them  back  in the position 
they would  have been in had the mistake  not been made. Again, for the avoidance of doubt, 
I dont think the insurer  or Nationwide  led Mr and Mrs H to believe their policy  included  TPD 
benefit. Our investigator  asked Mr and Mrs H what they would have done had they been 
aware they didnt  have  TPD cover.  Theyve  said they would have looked for TPD cover 
elsewhere  but I think its very unlikely Mrs H could have obtained this benefit  from another  
provider. So I dont  think Mr and Mrs H could have got TPD benefit  elsewhere, given that 
another insurer said it wouldnt have offered TPD cover either, or that TPD cover  could have 
been obtained elsewhere for an affordable price. I think they would always have  been  in the 
position where any policy they took out didnt include TPD benefit.
Mr and Mrs H indicated theyre  not sure what else they would have done, but suggested they 
may have  taken a cheaper life-assurance only policy  theyve since  cancelled their policy,  
so have no life or CIC cover at present. But Ive not found Mr and Mrs Hs testimony to be 
detailed or persuasive  about what they would  have done differently at the time the policy 
was sold in 2013. They clearly wanted  some form of cover, and I dont think  the 
recommendation of a policy  with life and CIC cover  was an unreasonable  one. I havent  seen 
enough evidence  to support Mr and Mrs Hs testimony  that TPD cover  was more important 
to them  than critical illness cover  at the time.  The policy provided lots of benefits that may 
have been useful had Mr or Mrs H become ill with a critical illness covered under their policy 
or if either of them died unexpectedly within the policy term. So Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  taken a cheaper  policy elsewhere if theyd known they couldnt get 
TPD cover  for Mrs H with the insurer.  
For this reason, Im not recommending that Nationwide should refund any premiums. But I 
still think they should pay compensation, as I agree with our investigator its likely  Nationwide 
didnt discuss the insurers  counter-proposals with Mr and Mrs H. I think £500 fairly 
recognises the trouble and upset caused by Nationwides poor service on this occasion. But 
Ive not recommended  any further compensation for the reasons explained above.
Ref: DRN14559669my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained, I intend to uphold this complaint in part, and require Nationwide  
to pay Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1455966