K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In February 2017,  Mr M took out car insurance  online with Advantage through a broker.  
During the application he said he had been resident in the UK since birth.  His premium  for 
the policy year was set at £843.04.
But, soon  after, Advantage found out that Mr M hadnt been  resident in the UK since birth. 
Advantage told Mr M that with the correct information his premium should have cost £322.15  
more. Mr M cancelled  the policy on 3 March 2017. He said he felt pressured to do that 
because the additional premium was excessive and he felt charging  him more discriminated 
against him because  he was not born in the UK. 
Advantage refunded Mr M his premium  after deducting part of it for the time he was on 
cover. A £20 arrangement  fee and a £45 cancellation fee (administrative fees) charged by 
the broker werent refunded to Mr M. Mr M complained.  He said:  Advantage had 
discriminated against him; he wanted  the full return of his premium without deductions; 
Advantage wrongly told him that they had cancelled the policy  whereas  he had cancelled it; 
and he wanted  compensation  for the distress he suffered  and the time he spent dealing with 
this matter. Advantage didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M didn't think that was fair and so he bought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked into the complaint. He felt that Advantage hadnt treated Mr M fairly by charging  him a 
cancellation fee. As Advantage  didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 19 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of detailed  points  and Ive considered  all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Advantage  have dealt with Mr M in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
premium calculation
Mr M believes the increase to his premium was discriminatory  given it was based on 
the place of his birth.  It might  help if I explain that we're  not the industry regulator. 
That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their 
policies. And our service  generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  
fairly - that is they treat customers with similar  circumstances  in the same way - 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Ref: DRN16242032Mr Ms premium  did go up significantly,  so I can understand  why he was concerned.  
But just because his premium has increased, I don't think  that means that Advantage  
have treated him unfairly.  Advantage provided me with information to show how Mr 
Ms premium  has increased. That information  is commercially sensitive so I can't 
share it with Mr M. But having  looked  at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Advantage 
treated Mr M in the same  way as it would other  policyholders in similar 
circumstances. So I think they calculated his premium reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders 
will make a claim and how much  they will have to pay out for those. And its not down 
to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, 
nor how to go about those  assessments. Different  insurers will have different views 
on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  
policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr M thinks it was unfair  for Advantage to charge a higher 
premium because he hadnt lived in the UK since birth.  But each insurer  will have 
their own methods of calculating risk. Im also aware  that many  insurers think  an 
individual who hasnt  lived in the UK since birth presents a higher risk than someone 
who has. But other insurers might not think the same. As insurance is essentially an 
assessment of risk, I dont think theres  anything  wrong with insurers  considering 
whether or not certain individuals fall into higher risk groupings. And Im aware that 
Advantage doesn't calculate  premiums based  on where the policyholder was born, 
only on how long theyve  lived in the UK. So they dont consider a customers  
nationality or race.  So I think a British citizen born and raised abroad who becomes 
resident in the UK later on in life would be treated in the same way as Mr M, so I 
cant say Mr M has been singled out or treated differently to others  in similar  
circumstances. So Im not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
charging the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Mr M did amounted  to, what  is known in the 
insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets 
out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers  may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  
(or apply other  exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But 
if the consumer  isn't happy  with that approach, they can cancel the policy 
themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them paying the 
additional premium  for the insurer to then settle  the claim in full instead of settling the 
claim proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  as in this case, we think its fair for an insurer to 
explain to the policyholder  theres  a problem and give them the option  of paying the 
additional premium  in order to keep the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
Ref: DRN16242033themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they 
want to take out insurance later on.
In Mr Ms case, Advantage gave him the opportunity to pay the additional  premium,  
but he chose to cancel the policy himself. That means there wont  be an adverse  
marker against his driving record as there would have been had Advantage cancelled 
the policy. And he was given a pro-rata refund of his premium, in other words he was 
only charged for the time he was on cover.  I think thats fair. I know Mr M feels  that 
Advantage should refund the whole premium, but CIDRA allows Advantage to keep 
part of the premium for Mr Ms time on cover. So Im not intending to uphold  this part 
of the complaint.
administrative fees
Mr M wanted the administrative fees he was charged,  namely  the arrangement fee of 
£20 and £45 to cancel his policy, to also be refunded to him. But those fees were 
charged by the broker, a separate  company, and not by Advantage. So its not 
something I can ask Advantage to consider.
Advantages communication about  the cancellation
Mr M complained that Advantage  said words  to the effect that it was their decision to 
cancel the policy.  Mr M feels strongly about this as he asked for the cancellation, and 
he is concerned that any record of the policy being cancelled by Advantage could  
have serious consequences for any future  policies  he might take out.
But I havent seen  any evidence beyond Mr Ms comments,that Advantage said that 
theyd cancelled the policy. The policy was cancelled on 3 March  2017. And 
Advantage wrote to Mr M on 8 March saying  we confirm your policy cancelled on 
03/03/2017 as you requested. So I think Advantage did acknowledge that the policy 
was cancelled on Mr Ms request. And Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
compensation
Finally, Mr M feels that Advantage should pay him over £3,000 in compensation for 
the stress  he has suffered as a result of this matter  and for the time he spent dealing 
with it. Im not asking  Advantage to pay compensation as I dont think theyve done  
anything wrong. And Im also mindful of the fact that the initial  mistake  was Mr Ms, 
not Advantages. And if hed entered  the correct date of his UK residency the 
problem wouldn't have  arisen at all. So Im not awarding compensation in this 
instance.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Advantage accepted my provisional  
findings. Mr M didnt comment.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
Ref: DRN16242034my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.  
 
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1624203