K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain, through a representative  (the representative),  that they were  given  
unsuitable advice  by SHK Finance Ltd to move their investments  to a new provider.
background
In 2016 Mrs and Mr M met with their adviser who advised they surrender their existing joint 
investment bond  with Nucleus and take out a new bond with Prudential and that Mrs M move 
her pension account from Nucleus to Prudential.  The investment in both the bond  and 
pension account  was in the Prufund  Growth fund.
They now complain that the advice was unsuitable  and they could simply have changed 
funds within  Nucleus and not incurred the costs of moving their investments.
SHK didnt uphold  their complaint. It said Mrs and Mr Ms objective was to reduce volatility,  
and also that they had lost confidence in the Nucleus arrangement so changing to a cautious  
fund portfolio wouldnt have addressed that issue. SHK said reducing fees wasnt  something 
that was discussed. It did offer to refund half the fee that it had been  paid by Prudential as a 
goodwill gesture.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She wasnt  satisfied that SHK had done 
anything wrong. She said having looked at the evidence she wasnt  satisfied that the advice 
to move investments  to Prudential was unsuitable  for their needs.
The representative didnt  agree with the investigator. He said Mrs and Mr M never  asked for 
less volatility as they didnt even understand what that word meant. He said the adviser  had 
said he was doing  this for all his clients although acknowledged this couldnt be proved. He 
said he was shocked  that advisers were still getting  away with churning their clients.
The representative questioned the investigators  conclusion that Prudential was cheaper  
than Nucleus and provided evidence from Prudential  that suggested that the figures  the 
adviser had presented to Mrs and Mr M used by the adviser for charges were  wrong. He 
said there were no guarantees that the Prudential investments would be less volatile than 
investments through Nucleus.
As agreement hasnt been  reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings about what happened and my decision 
are made on a balance  of probabilities  what is more  likely than not. So I am not saying 
what definitely did or didnt happen.
It isnt clear how the meeting with the adviser came  about. Mrs and Mr M have suggested 
they were contacted by the adviser  about moving  their pensions into something better for 
them in retirement.  The adviser said he was contacted by them because they had received a 
recent statement  from Nucleus showing their accounts had dropped in value which they 
were concerned about.
Ref: DRN13343472I make  no finding on how the meeting came about  as there isnt enough evidence to support 
either partys version of events. Regardless of how the meeting took place I need to decide 
whether the advice that was given  was suitable.  
I have noted the representatives reference to churning  unnecessary  trading  or advice 
simply to generate fees. I understand  why this has been suggested given Mrs and Mr Ms 
risk appetite hadnt changed and were  not really changing the type of product  just the 
provider.
But I think the suitability  of the advice  comes down to whether Mrs and Mr M were  
concerned about  volatility  within their existing investments and if so whether  this couldve 
been resolved  by simply changing funds within Nucleus.
The representative has suggested that Mrs and Mr M didnt ask for less volatility as they 
didnt know what that word meant.  I accept they may not have used the word volatility or 
known what that word meant at the time. But volatility is simply  a word used in the industry to 
describe fluctuations in value over a period  of time.  They didnt need to be aware of the word 
itself to be concerned  about the consequences of volatility and want to do something  about 
this.
The fact find identified that Mrs and Mr M were concerned  about  volatility. It was recorded 
under the heading Savings and Investment that:
Your recent experiences  have raised the question can less volatility  be available within  the 
current product types you have.
And under attitude to risk it is recorded:
Both: Moderate attitude to investment risk but would like to achieve a smoother growth 
without large portfolio  swings over any given period.
The same concern over volatility was recorded  for Mrs M under the heading Retirement in 
relation to her pension  account.
Both the suitability report for the joint investment bond and the suitability report  for Mrs Ms 
pension repeated that their objective  was less fund volatility. 
If this wasnt a concern  then it means that the adviser made up this objective within  the fact 
find and suitability reports. Whilst that is a possibility Im not satisfied  it is more  likely, than 
not, that is what he based on the evidence I have seen. I acknowledge Mrs and Mr M have 
said they didnt  get the suitability reports.  But even  if they didnt it doesnt  mean  the reports 
dont show what was discussed.
The information I have  seen about Prufunds funds refers to Prudential aiming to reduce the 
impact of the changes  in value of the funds by using a smoothing process. Various graphs 
that Mrs and Mr M signed in February 2016  showed  the impact  of this smoothing  process  
and these generally show a smoother rise in value without large short  term movements in 
value.
I note there  was a large drop in value in 2008  which the representative has referred to. This 
will have been as a result of the global financial crisis and I dont think this is evidence that 
Ref: DRN13343473the investment  through Prudential couldnt achieve Mrs and Mr Ms objective of reduced 
volatility.
Mrs and Mr M have  asked  why the adviser  didnt simply change  funds within  Nucleus to 
more cautious  funds. This may have reduced volatility  but Mrs and Mr Ms risk appetite 
hadnt changed, according  to the information  within the fact find and suitability reports.  So 
Im not satisfied that simply changing to more  cautious funds wouldve been a suitable  
recommendation. 
I note the representative has gone to a lot of effort to provide evidence that the charges  for 
Prudentials pension account were actually more  than for the existing Nucleus account.  The 
information within the suitability report for the investment bond showed the Prudential  
charges as lower  and the representative has provide  evidence from Prudential  which  he 
suggests shows this is wrong.
But the recent letter from Prudential is with regard  to Mrs Ms pension account  not the 
investment bond  so isnt evidence that the figures  provided by the adviser for the bond were 
wrong. 
The recent information provided by Prudential doesnt seem to tie up with previous 
information about its charges in 2016 for the pension  account. So I think there is some 
uncertainty about what the providers actual charges were. But regardless of this I dont think 
this means the complaint should be upheld.
The only identified objective was reducing  volatility. This wasnt affected by any difference  in 
charges between the two providers. And the fact find recorded that the level of charges was 
of low priority  for Mrs and Mr M. I have  seen nothing that suggests that the charges were  an 
issue for them, or that lower charges was an objective.
So even if the wrong information was provided about the charges Im not persuaded that 
Mrs and Mr M were  misled into changing to Prudential because of this. Or that they wouldve 
stayed with Nucleus  or done something different if it had been shown its charges were lower.  
Im also satisfied that Mrs and Mr M were  made  aware there  was a one-off charge for the 
advice to change  to Prudential of 1% and an ongoing adviser charge of 1%. This information 
was clearly set out in the signed illustrations for the investment bond. I think it is unlikely 
Mrs and Mr M wouldve thought that these  charges  would be included in the illustrations but 
not something that would  then apply once they invested. And the information was also 
included in the application for the bond  they signed.
Im also satisfied they were made aware  of the adviser charges for Mrs Ms pension  account 
as these were also set out in the application for the account. I also note in a document 
headed Decumulation Inputs signed  by Mrs M on 15 February 2016 both the adviser 
charges and AMC were  set out. 
In summary,  I have not seen sufficient persuasive evidence  to find that Mrs and Mr M didnt 
want to invest differently so that their investments were less volatile, or that they couldve 
achieved that objective through Nucleus when  there  risk appetite remained the same.  Im not 
satisfied in the circumstances that the adviser did anything wrong by advising them to 
change product providers to Prudential.
Ref: DRN13343474my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1334347