K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  didnt  make details of the associated card benefits  clear  
enough when  he applied. Mr K specifically complains that the companion  seat voucher he 
received as a reward isnt cost effective to use. 
background
Mr K has an MBNA credit card that came  with various benefits associated with a third party  
airline. One of the benefits meant that if a customer spent over £15,000 theyd receive a 
voucher for a companion  flight. 
Mr K spent enough money on his MBNA card to receive a companion flight  voucher and in 
March 2018 tried to book  flights  with the airline.  But he found that he couldnt use the 
companion seat voucher to book  tickets at the same price  hed seen online. Mr K was told 
that he could only use the companion voucher to book tickets from certain classes  and the 
price hed seen  advertised  online was for a ticket  that didnt qualify. 
Mr K complained as he felt misled by the terms of the offer. MBNA responded and said that 
it provided details  of the third party airlines terms and conditions which set out what tickets  
were included in the companion seat reward. MBNA  also said it had no involvement  in 
setting the rules of the offer or details  of the terms. 
As Mr K remained unhappy he referred his complaint  to this service  and an investigator 
looked at what  had happened. But they didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint as they didnt think 
MBNA had made a mistake.  Mr K didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be appealed so 
its been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says he initially discussed the benefits  of the credit card over the phone  before he 
applied online.  And hes confirmed that there was some discussion about different types of 
tickets offered by the airline  but has explained  the conversation was general in nature. Mr K 
went on to apply online and was referred  to both MBNAs terms and conditions as well as 
those of the third party airline. Ive looked at both sets of terms and can see that the various  
classes of tickets that customers can use a companion  seat voucher for are listed  in the 
airlines. 
As I can see that MBNAs  terms refer the customer to the third party airlines  terms and that 
the ticket class is set out within them, I now need  to decide whether the details of the reward 
were made sufficiently clear. 
I appreciate Mr K discussed  potential card facilities and rewards  with MBNA over the phone 
before he decided to apply.  But I dont  think that means MBNA would be required to go 
through the complete detail of both its and the third party airlines terms and conditions 
during a call. Id expect the important  details within the terms to be signposted in a call of this 
Ref: DRN10044362nature but its not practical  for a business to run through  everything, which  is why it also 
makes the written terms available. 
Mr K has said that to understand the ticket booking process and what  tickets were covered a 
customer would need to contact the airline  directly  but thats not something hed do during 
an application. Ive thought carefully about  this point as I agree the airlines  terms in their 
own right dont give the details of what  the class codes mean.  
But I think MBNA would reasonably  expect a potential customer  to either ask more  specific 
questions  which couldve  been  referred  to the airline  or contact the airline directly to find 
out the detail they required if this was one of the key features that attracted them to the 
credit card. I do appreciate that the airlines terms may require a customer to take additional 
steps to understand the ticket types included, but I dont think  thats unreasonably 
inconvenient in the circumstances. Especially if this was a really important feature to Mr K. 
Mr K says even if a customer were to contact the airline to discuss  the types  of fares  the 
voucher could work with it wouldnt be possible to get details for comparison purposes.  
Thats because customers have to have held the card for 12 months before qualifying for the 
companion seat and the price of tickets that far in advance isnt published. But the terms do 
say what types of tickets  are included in the offer so Mr K couldve taken the step of 
contacting the airline to find out whether  the type of ticket he intended to buy was included in 
the offer. 
I think its important to note that MBNA has acted in line with its account terms. Mr K did 
receive a companion seat voucher after spending the required amount that he couldve 
used, albeit for a different class of ticket to the one he wanted. 
I appreciate Mr K feels its unfair that the companion seat voucher cant  be used  on the 
airlines cheapest tickets.  But its up to the airline  to decide what  ticket classes should be 
included with the reward and Im satisfied  it provided those details in its terms. And, as Ive 
said above, Mr K was sent a companion seat voucher  in line with the terms of his MBNA 
credit card. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied MBNA provided sufficiently clear 
information about the terms  of its credit card to Mr K before  he decided to proceed. I 
understand why Mr K is disappointed but Ive not found he was misled  by MBNA. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1004436