K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance  from Go 
Car Credit Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  I invited 
Mrs M and Go Car Credit  to let me have any further  evidence or arguments they wanted to 
make before I finally determined the matter.
Mrs M said the provisional decision didnt mention the adverse information on her credit file. 
She wants this removed. She also expressed concerns that her car might  have  other 
problems because she hasnt been able to drive it for such a long time.
Go Car Credit didnt  reply  to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive said that Mrs M doesnt  need  to make monthly payments under the agreement from 8 
August 2018 until the repairs have been  completed,  so if there is adverse information on Mrs 
Ms credit file relating to late payments during this time then I think  its fair to ask Go Car 
Credit to remove it.
Ive considered Mrs Ms concerns about other possible problems with her car. Its important 
to distinguish between  problems which have arisen because  Mrs M hasnt been able to drive  
the car for so long and problems due to general  wear and tear. 
I cant fairly require Go Car Credit to repair wear  and tear items but if there are issues  which  
are directly  related to the length of time the car has been stood still (for instance, seized or 
rusty brakes) then I think Go Car Credit should be responsible for these  as part of the 
obligation to repair the clutch.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  the complaint. Go Car Credit Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mrs M.
Reimburse Mrs M for the cost of car hire from 31/07/2018 to 7/08/2018  totalling £144
Waive Mrs Ms monthly repayments from 8/08/2018 to the date when the repairs 
have been completed
Remove any adverse  information from Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the agreement
Pay £200 to Mrs M for distress  and inconvenience
Ref: DRN10558402Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1055840