K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr S holds with Barclays Bank  UK Plc. Hes unhappy 
that Barclays wouldnt provide him with a payment holiday when he was in financial 
difficulties linked to a divorce.
background
Mr S made the request  to Barclays in late 2018.  He and his wife were  involved in divorce 
proceedings. Mr S wasnt living in the mortgaged property at the time;  his wife and their 
children were in occupation  whilst he lived in rented accommodation. Hed also recently 
liquidated his company,  and was struggling to cover the mortgage and his rent. 
Mr S wanted  Barclays to give him a payment holiday until the divorce was finalised and he 
could return to the mortgaged property. He was confident hed be able to build his new 
business venture  and restore his status as a millionaire. In a final response dated 
22 November 2018, Barclays declined Mr S request,  and he referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Barclays had done anything wrong in turning down the 
request. Mr S asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unless specifically allowed for in a mortgage  contract (and it isnt in Mr S case) a payment 
holiday isnt a right. Its merely one of the options  available to a lender being asked to 
provide forbearance.  Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation  
require lenders to provide forbearance. What they actually require lenders to do is consider 
each set of individual circumstances fairly to decide if forbearance should be provided;  the 
two things arent the same. 
Barclays looked at Mr S request, considered it against the backdrop of his circumstances  at 
the time of the request, and turned it down. I appreciate that decision was unwelcome, but 
the test I have to apply  is whether it was unfair,  and theres no proper basis for me to say it 
was. 
Mr S wasnt  just going through a period of financial  difficulty; he was going through  a period 
of great  uncertainty and instability. He was clearly confident of his ability  to come through  it, 
but it seems Barclays didnt share his confidence  at that time,  and to be clear,  it didnt have  
to.
Nor would it be appropriate  for me to form my own judgement on the viability or otherwise of 
Mr S aspirations in late 2018, and impose it on Barclays. Its not my role to analyse or 
second guess  Mr S business plans  or the likely outcome of his divorce - and decide how 
theyd turn out. It was for Barclays commercial judgement to decide if it wanted to take the 
risk of Mr S plans working  out. Unfortunately, it seems it didnt, and it wouldnt be right of me 
to say that it should have done, just because he wanted it to.
Ref: DRN17487642my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Barclays Bank UK Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1748764