K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  PLC (RSA) didnt  complete  all 
the work  needed  on their car after they made a claim on their motor insurance  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs Bs car was damaged by another car on 28 March 2018 whilst it was parked and 
unattended. They had communication problems with RSA and say no proper review of the 
accident took place. RSA agreed to pay for repairs to the bodywork, but it said a problem 
with the car starting was due to too much  oil in the engine. Mr and Mrs B say RSA advised  
them to take the car to a dealership garage, as it was still under warranty.  The fault was 
repaired there, but they say the garage  said it was highly likely it was due to the accident. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were without  a car for five weeks, as RSAs garage withdrew the 
courtesy car when it had completed its work. That meant they faced great inconvenience. 
They felt the replacement car should  have been  left with them until the dealership garage 
found the fault and was able to say whether it was accident-related or not. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He said there was no report  on 
the file to show what the cars starting problem was, and it seemed RSA hadnt received one 
from the dealership  garage. He didnt think that garage would  have repaired the car under 
warranty if it thought  the fault was due to the accident. He noted that the delay in getting the 
fault fixed at the dealership garage wasnt RSAs fault. The investigator  said the policy  
provided for a courtesy car from RSAs garage  only until it had completed its repairs.  He 
thought RSAs offer of £100 compensation for its poor communication was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B said it was shocking that RSA wouldnt  provide reports to them  as requested. 
They said it was never proved  that there was too much oil in the engine   and the dealership  
garage said that wasnt the case.  They provided  emails  showing that theyd queried what  
RSA had done with a preliminary report from the dealership garage.  The email said the 
garage found that a timing belt had been  knocked out of place, plus other issues.  
Mr and Mrs B asked  for a review of their complaint by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We checked with RSA and it said Mr and Mrs B had a courtesy car from 29 March  2018 to 
24 April 2018. There are notes on the file that suggest a car may have been provided again  
from 17 May 2018, but given what RSA has told us, I assume that didnt happen. 
That would make sense,  as the policy only provides for a courtesy car when a consumers  
own car is with an approved repairer. It was withdrawn when the repairs RSA thought  were  
accident-related were done. I cant  see any provision for a hire car on the policy. RSA didnt 
accept that the cars starting problem was due to the accident.  It agreed to reconsider its 
decision if the dealership garage  provided a report to the contrary, but in the interim  I dont  
think there was a basis for it to provide Mr and Mrs B with a car. 
Unfortunately, the dealership garage had to wait for a part to be delivered from abroad.  That 
extended the time it took for the car to be repaired under warranty.  It seems the garage said 
Ref: DRN14583522it could take from five weeks to five months to get the part. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B 
would have been greatly upset and inconvenienced by not having  a car for an indefinite 
period. But I dont think that was RSAs fault. 
The file shows that the dealership garage told RSA it would provide a report should  the fault 
be related to the accident. But RSA didnt get a report  to that effect. It seems Mr and Mrs B 
didnt get one either. An email from the dealership garage on the file says it found the timing 
belt had jumped, so further investigation  was needed. RSA chased the garage for further 
details, but without success.  
In the end the dealership  garage fixed the fault under warranty. Its not usual for a garage  to 
do that unless  it thinks the work falls within the warrantys remit. Its possible the garage  
gave Mr and Mrs B the benefit of the doubt  (if it wasnt sure how the problem was caused). 
But that still means theres  no evidence that RSA should have carried  out the work.  
Mr and Mrs B believe that RSA decided the fault was caused by too much oil in the engine 
purely because  thats what  the recovery driver  said when the car was taken to the approved 
repairer. They asked  several times for the report provided by the approved  repairer setting 
out its findings. As far as I can see, the approved  repairer didnt provide a report, but a note 
on the file says its engineer checked and confirmed that the engine  was overfilled with oil. 
We asked RSA if it did anything after being told the timing  belt had slipped. It seems  it didnt,  
given that the dealership garage didnt contact it again with further  information.  RSA told us 
its engineer says the timing belt would not have slipped as a result of the accident.  And the 
email from the dealership  garage didnt suggest it may have done.  
I dont think Mr and Mrs B have been able to show that RSA acted unreasonably in relation 
to the repairs. It accepted  that its communication should have been better  and offered what I 
think was an adequate sum in compensation for that. I can see that Mr and Mrs B went 
through a very difficult time, no doubt  made worse by the accident not being their fault. I 
sympathise, but as I dont think RSA acted unreasonably, I cant uphold  their complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1458352