K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains that Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) failed to compensate  her sufficiently  
when her bathroom installation didnt go to plan. 
background 
In September  2017 Mrs G arranged for a new bathroom to be supplied,  fitted  and project 
managed by a company Ill call B. She paid for the whole service through  a fixed  sum loan 
agreement that was arranged with Hitachi. But Mrs G says there were problems. There was 
some damage done and she says the project management service she paid for was non 
existent. Hitachi agreed with B that Mrs G should be compensated for the damage that had 
been done during the fitting process. They offered £526 which  Mrs G has advised  she 
accepts. Hitachi credited a further  £50 to Mrs Gs account in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience that shed experienced.
But Mrs G said this wasnt enough.  She said shed had to manage the whole project  herself 
and she provided  detail of Bs failings. She said that amongst other things theyd:
failed to deliver items on time or at re-arranged times and failed to advise when some 
items had become  available
caused a delay to the project  
not started the work  within the 12 week window they expected
failed to update a tile order
scheduled deliveries  without checking they were suitable
So Mrs G referred  her complaint to this service. She said she was content  with the 
compensation in respect of the damage  that had been caused.  But she thought  the service 
had been misrepresented  to her as she was promised  project  management and didnt 
receive it. So she thought Hitachi should have provided a bigger refund and she therefore 
referred her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator provided his opinion. He could  understand  why Mrs G was unhappy and he 
didnt think the service shed received reflected Bs promise in its advert  to provide local 
project management to reduce the stress  caused by the installation.  So he was persuaded 
that the agreement had been misrepresented to Mrs G. 
He didnt think it was possible to separate out the cost of the project management  from the 
overall cost of the installation. He noted that Mrs G had provided  three  quotations from other 
installers but he didnt  think  they were comparative.  So instead  he thought about the overall  
distress and inconvenience the matter  had caused and he suggested Hitachi increase  their 
compensation to £250.
Hitachi accepted  the investigators suggestion but Mrs G didnt. She thought  it should  be 
possible to make an estimate of the cost of the project management portion of the work and 
she was disappointed B had failed  to do this. So she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13126312I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs G so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs G bought her bathroom using  a fixed sum loan.  This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the service  shouldnt have been 
misrepresented to Mrs G, if it was then Hitachi are responsible and if I thought Mrs G 
wouldnt have proceeded with the deal if she was properly informed, Id ask them to take 
some action.
Ive looked at Mrs Gs testimony  and I think its clear the project  management was important 
to her. She clearly expected a lot more  help and Im persuaded that she wouldnt have  
continued with the deal as it was if she knew the extent of the project management support 
shed receive. 
The adverts dont  describe  the project  management  in any detail so I can understand it 
would be difficult for B to separate the offering from the overall  price.  But I think  a reasonable 
person would expect  this to include the management of materials; start and completion 
dates, for instance.
Here I think the investigators approach has been sensible. As hes not been able to 
separate the project management  hes considered  the overall  distress  and inconvenience.  
He didnt think the quotations  for work that Mrs G had helpfully provided could reasonably be 
considered comparative, and I agree.  The investigator thought  an overall  payment  of £250 
for distress and inconvenience  caused would be fair. The project management wasnt  the 
only thing being  financed by this agreement. I think its fair to say a number of other costs  
were involved  including  the installers  fee; delivery  and profit.  So I agree with the 
investigator. I think, all things considered,  £250 is a fair proportion of the overall cost to 
return in light of the trouble thats  been  experienced. 
So overall, I whilst I think the compensation Hitachi approved wasnt  sufficient I agree with 
the investigators opinion about  how much it should be increased.
Ref: DRN13126313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc to:
pay Mrs G £526  in respect of the damages that have been  incurred during installation
pay Mrs G £250  compensation in respect  of the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced when project  management  was inadequate
Hitachi may deduct anything theyve already paid to Mrs G as I believe an interim payment 
may have  been  made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1312631