K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and its agents 
provided abysmal customer service in its handling of their claim for damage from an escape 
of water.   
background 
Mr and Mrs H claimed  to RSA under their building insurance policy  when their home suffered 
a significant escape of water which they discovered on 31 August 2018.
Mr and Mrs H said that drying first took place on 10 November - so their home had been 
exposed to standing  water for three  months before any action had been  taken resulting in
deep moisture penetration, mould  and fungus  growth. They said RSA had delayed progress 
on their list of possessions described as beyond economical repair  and they had to manage
without common household essentials while in alternative accommodation (AA). Mr and Mrs 
H were also unhappy  with RSAs agents  assessment of their damaged items. 
Mr and Mrs H said that bills for AA werent paid on time and so they had to rely on family  and 
friends for help. They said they had to chase  for answers and resorted to contacting  the 
managing director  of RSAs agents to get the AA agreed. Mr and Mrs H complained to RSA 
that it and its agents had left them without adequate support during their claim resulting in 
inconvenience, stress, financial hardship and a deterioration of their property.
RSAs agents  responded  to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint saying that over the past few months 
its service had been unacceptable due to its errors. It apologised and offered Mr and Mrs H 
£350 compensation. Mr and Mrs H rejected the offer saying they were  pleased the appalling 
service had been acknowledged, but the compensation didnt reflect the extreme pain and 
suffering they had endured or the impact on their family and their employment.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs H complained to the insurer and ourselves while  the claim 
was ongoing and RSA had considered the complaint  up until it changed the loss adjusters, 
and so would she. She said Mr H explained  that this was a stressful time for him and his 
family and RSA has acknowledged  that the claim had been very poorly handled.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs H had to chase RSA and its agents, and RSA also chased 
its agents for progress,  but more could have  been  done. She the agents delayed  decisions 
on AA and interim payments causing  stress and on one occasion Mr and Mrs H thought they 
might be homeless when  their AA wasnt extended until the day it expired. But she didnt 
think the full impact that Mr and Mrs H described was a direct result of the poor handling of 
the claim.  She said it was partly due to the type of claim and the disruption to the family 
having of living in AA. She recommended RSA pay compensation of £500  in total.
RSA agreed to the increased compensation. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigator 
that the level of stress and disruption  they suffered could be expected  in the circumstances.  
They said this wasnt caused by the incident  itself but by the inadequacy of RSAs  response.  
They requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12283732So far as Im aware  there arent any unresolved issues with Mr and Mrs Hs claim, other than 
the compensation for the poor service  they received. Our service makes awards for distress  
and inconvenience  where appropriate,  but we would  only award compensation for health 
and employment  loss where  the impact is evidenced. If policyholders seek  recompense  for 
these types of losses then their claim may be better suited to the courts,  who are qualified  to 
assess damages.
Both parties  agree that Mr and Mrs Hs claim was very poorly handled  by RSA and its 
agents. And so, it is my role to see if the compensation recommended by the investigator is 
fair in all the circumstances of the complaint. For this reason Ive looked  very closely at the 
evidence from all parties, in particular the communications.
From what  Ive seen it appears that most of the delays were in the latter part of 2018 when 
several weeks went by without any contact to Mr and Mrs H. During this period answers to 
their concerns werent forthcoming  and critical  dates for their AA approached without 
resolution. And at the end of 2018  Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint  to RSA and our 
service and I have only considered their complaint to that time.
I have seen that the drying out of Mr and Mrs Hs home took about two months to arrange  
and during this time Mr and Mrs Hs possessions were assessed  and they were  unhappy  
with the outcome. By the start of 2019 the claim received more positive handling from the 
insurer and it appointed a new loss adjuster in February to manage  the claim and the issues 
began to be resolved.  
I think that Mr and Mrs H suffered delays and poor responses, particularly from RSAs  
agents. I think this would have added to the stress and inconvenience  of being removed 
from their home. Having said this, I do think RSA responded to their complaint properly and 
tried to resolve their concerns and progress the claim. Im pleased  that RSA paid Mr and 
Mrs H a disturbance allowance while they were  away from home and changed the loss 
adjusters when their performance fell below an acceptable standard. 
Unfortunately, significant escape of water claims affecting many rooms  such  as Mr and 
Mrs Hs are complex to resolve,  involving  a number of parties and generally take several 
months to conclude. It follows that this is an inherently disrupting and stressful  experience 
for policyholders. Our role is to determine whether or not avoidable delay and stress by the 
insurer and its agents has added to the policyholders experience. 
I was sorry to learn about the harmful impacts from the claim on Mr and Mrs Hs family that 
Mr H has described.  However, taking all of the circumstances and time to progress  the claim 
overall, I think the compensation of £500  for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs H 
suffered recommended  by the investigator is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. 
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  its very poor service caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
Ref: DRN12283733Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1228373