K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of his claim for legal expenses 
insurance. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers.  
background
Mr S has the benefit of insurance for certain legal  expenses which is provided by Great 
Lakes. 
Prior to making his claim  Mr S had instructed a solicitor Ill refer to as T. He wanted  to take 
legal action in relation  to an employment  dispute  his daughter was having.
Mr S submitted a claim form at the start of November 2017. His daughter wanted to take 
action for harassment  on the grounds of sex, direct sex discrimination, victimisation and 
constructive dismissal. T confirmed they felt all aspects of the claim had greater than 51% 
prospects of success.  
Great Lakes responded and on 7 November 2017  said the only part of the claim for which  
cover might be available  was constructive dismissal. This is because they say the other 
aspects had happened or started before the policy did in May 2017  and so were excluded  
from cover. 
Great Lakes took some initial steps towards  appointing T under  the terms of the policy. They  
also asked their own panel solicitor S to give an opinion as to the prospects of success. In 
February 2018, S concluded that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success and 
based on this Great Lakes declined to fund the claim. 
There was then a period  during which T challenged the legal opinion  S had provided. By 
May 2018 agreement  still hadnt been  found.  So it was decided to get a barristers  opinion as 
to the prospects. Great Lakes said they would usually arrange for this opinion.
Mr S wanted  to get this opinion himself to avoid further delay. Great Lakes agreed and said 
in the event of the barristers opinion being positive, they would fund the cost of the opinion. 
The barrister  gave  his opinion on 8 May 2018. He stated that the constructive dismissal 
claim had around 55% prospects of success. But Great Lakes said they couldnt accept the 
opinion. They say this was because it wasnt based  on all the available  evidence.  The 
opening paragraph of the opinion included I must stress that I have had limited  access to 
documentation and my advice is based essentially  on the pleadings and grievance 
documents.
Great Lakes also noted that the opinion made  no reference to a £16,000 settlement offer 
which had been  made in January 2018. Around  this time Mr S complained  to Great  Lakes. 
He was unhappy with delays especially as the policy doesnt  cover costs incurred before 
acceptance of the claim. 
Great Lakes responded and acknowledged  there  had been some  delays. So they offered a 
hamper as compensation. They  also said that even though they still didnt accept the 
Ref: DRN14055832barristers opinion, they would meet the £750 (plus VAT)  cost.  They  also said that Mr S 
would need to seek a further opinion if he wished to challenge their position  on prospects. 
Mr S subsequently obtained an updated opinion from the same  barrister dated 
14 June 2018.  Great Lakes say this opinion concluded that at that time there werent  
reasonable prospects of success in relation to the claim for constructive dismissal. By this 
point a settlement  offer of £20,000 had been received from the respondent. The barrister  
was of the opinion this should be accepted. 
On the basis of this opinion  Great Lakes  declined to accept the claim. Mr S again 
complained on 27 June 2018. He felt the opinion  of 8 May 2018, confirmed positive 
prospects and so the claim should  be accepted from this point. Great  Lakes didnt agree and 
re-iterated their offer to pay the cost of the initial barristers opinion. 
Being unhappy with this response Mr S referred  his complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators didnt  think  it should be upheld. She concluded that offering to pay for the 
barristers opinion was fair compensation for the delays. She also said that as the barrister 
recommended the settlement was accepted and the policy is clear no further costs  will be 
paid from this point   it was fair for Great  Lakes  not to fund the claim.
As Mr S still disagrees, the matter came  to me for a decision. I came to a slightly different 
conclusion and on 16 November 2018  I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold this 
complaint in part.
accepting the claim
Mr Ss policy  says We will not cover the balance of any legal costs  incurred before we 
have given our written acceptance of your claim. Great  Lakes never accepted the claim as 
they never agreed there  were reasonable prospects  of success. And I agree this term is 
clear that costs wont be paid in these circumstances. 
But Ive also considered whether it is fair to apply this policy  term. In the circumstances  of 
this complaint, I think it is. Great Lakes set out that cover  was only available  for constructive 
dismissal and that other parts  of the claim werent covered as they pre-dated  the policy.  
The requirement for there to be positive prospects of success  is common  to nearly all legal 
expenses policies. Litigation can be expensive  and a privately paying individual wouldnt 
generally continue  when advised not to. So I dont think an insurer should have to either. 
Great Lakes themselves arent legal experts, so I think its fair for them to rely on suitably 
qualified legal advice  as the basis for their decisions in relation to a claim. 
When there are conflicting solicitors  opinions, it is common for a barristers opinion to be 
sought. The barristers  opinion dated 14 May 2018 concluded that the prospects of success  
for constructive dismissal were 55%. But I agree with Great  Lakes that the barrister makes 
clear this opinion  wasnt based on all the available evidence. And because of this I think  it 
was fair for Great Lakes  to disregard this opinion.
Ref: DRN14055833The updated  barristers  opinion of 14 June 2018 said Having  considered the evidence I am 
no longer of the view that the Claimant will succeed in her claim for ordinary constructive 
dismissal.  Based on this opinion, I think it is fair for Great Lakes to not accept the claim. 
The barristers opinion  of the other aspects of the claim isnt relevant  to the circumstances of 
this complaint. This is because constructive dismissal is the only issue  for which cover was 
available. I note Mr S hasnt contested that as part of the complaint to either Great Lakes or 
our service.  But if he feels Great  Lakes  have unfairly  applied  the exclusion in relation to the 
date of occurrence, this is something he would need to raise with them  in the first instance.  
As such it wouldnt  be appropriate for me to comment further on that point. 
funding the barristers opinion and service
Mr Ss policy  says Where reasonable and necessary, we may obtain at our own cost, 
advice on prospects for your claim from an independent barrister. This will be in the event 
that there  is a dispute on the prospects of success  for your claim, between your choice of 
appointed representative and our panel  solicitors. 
This describes the situation  that occurred in the circumstance of this complaint. Mr S wanted 
to obtain an opinion himself and Great Lakes  agreed  this could happen   even though  the 
policy says they will obtain  such an opinion. I think this is fair. 
But I can see that Great Lakes said for them to be able to accept the opinion  it would need  
to be clear that all the evidence had been  reviewed. Having read the first barristers opinion, 
I think its clear  that wasnt the case.  I dont think this can fairly be blamed on Great Lakes 
who didnt instruct the barrister themselves. 
Great Lakes later agreed they would fund the costs of the first opinion  irrespective of the 
outcome in relation to the prospects.  Ive thought carefully about  this and I think this is a cost 
that Great Lakes  would  always have met themselves. So I dont think  it is fair to treat the 
payment of said costs  as compensation  for any delays. 
I dont think the first opinion being  based on only partial information is the fault of Great  
Lakes. So for this reason I dont think they are liable for the costs  of the second barristers 
opinion. 
I understand the point Mr S makes  about the cost being dependent  on the volume of 
information to be examined. But Great Lakes were  clear all evidence  should be provided,  
and I think its likely  the barrister would have had to re-familiarise himself  with the case for 
the second opinion. And if the initial quote  had been based on examining all the evidence, 
Great Lakes wouldve had the opportunity to query  this before the costs were  incurred.
Both sides agree that Great Lakes are responsible for some delays. So all that remains  is for 
me to consider is what fair compensation for these delays is. I dont think  any of the delays 
have impacted on the underlying legal  case.  I say this because  prospects of success werent  
ultimately confirmed by the barrister and the matter was settled outside  of a tribunal. 
But I can appreciate  it wouldve  caused Mr S some  distress and inconvenience.  To 
compensate for this I think Great Lakes should  pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN14055834Great Lakes responded and in summary said they disagreed that the level of inconvenience 
caused warranted £100 compensation. They reiterated their offer to send 
Mr S a hamper by way of an apology. 
Mr S responded and raised a number of points which  Ill respond  to below. Now both sides 
have had an opportunity for comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from my provisional  findings.  Let me explain why. 
Mr S made considerable submissions in response to my provisional decision.  And whilst  I dont 
intend to respond  in similar detail, I have read all his correspondence and taken it into account 
when making my decision.  So if I dont mention any particular  point  or piece of evidence it isnt 
because I havent  seen it or thought  about  it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to 
explain my decision.  I hope  Mr S doesnt  take this as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
Mr S says that although Great  Lakes said in an email dated 7 November 2017  that there was 
only cover  available  for constructive dismissal  T asked that they reconsider this. And when  
they obtained their own assessment of prospects, they did so on all parts of the claim. He 
says that based  on this Great Lakes  did accept that all heads of claim should be included.  
I dont think there is evidence to support that Great Lakes had changed their position that the 
only part of the claim for which cover  was available was constructive dismissal.  The fact that 
Great Lakes assessed  prospects for all aspects of the claim doesnt change  my opinion on 
this. Their panel solicitor  would  have  had to review  all the information in any case and I dont 
think providing an opinion  on prospects  would  have significantly added  to the cost and could 
have provided  further justification for their claim decision. 
Mr S says that he was relying on Ts legal  advice as to prospects when personally  funding 
the claim.  He says the panel  solicitor isnt independent and will base their opinion on the 
interests of the insurer. He also points out that as they obtained  a favourable  outcome, the 
case did have good prospects. 
I dont dispute  that the case settled with a favourable outcome for Mr S. And whilst I can 
understand why Mr S feels  as he does, I still think its reasonable for Great Lakes to use 
legal opinion  as the basis for their decisions.  And I dont think  the panel arrangement  
between them and a solicitor changes this. 
Mr S also says that the panel solicitors opinion  which Great  Lakes relied upon was shown  to 
be incorrect by the barristers opinion of June  2018.  I dont think  there  being  difference  in two 
legal opinions means its unfair or unreasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the original 
opinion. 
The key point remains that Great Lakes arent legal experts themselves. So its entirely 
reasonable for them to rely on a suitably qualified legal opinion.  Generally Id expect them to 
put more weight on a more highly  qualified opinion. But as Ill come to, I dont  agree  the 
barristers opinion supported the claim.  
Ref: DRN14055835Mr S thinks  the barristers opinion of June 2018  supported that there  are prospects of 
success in relation to constructive dismissal. He highlighted certain parts  of that opinion  
which say in relation  to the victimisation claim I would put prospects of success at 60%. The 
result of this will be an injury to feelings award  and if it is found  to constitute a fundamental 
breach of contract then also support a claim for unfair dismissal (which  I believe  it will do). 
The barrister  goes  on to say in relation to a right to be accompanied that: In this case the 
Claimant was free to choose  her father  as her companion and it seems  clear there was no 
proper grounds  to exclude him. The compensation for a breach is no more than 2 weeks 
pay although a breach  may also contribute to a fundamental breach of contract founding a 
constructive dismissal claim.
Great Lakes say that they interpreted  this as there still not being prospects of success  for 
constructive dismissal. Ive carefully  considered this and I dont think  Great  Lakes are being 
unreasonable in reaching  that conclusion.  The barrister refers  to the outcome of a 
victimisation claim supporting an unfair dismissal claim. And also to the outcome of the right 
to be accompanied  issue  as founding  a constructive dismissal claim.  I think that if the 
barrister thought there were prospects in relation to constructive or unfair dismissal at that 
time, he wouldve  said so. And whilst he believes there are prospects for other aspects of the 
claim (which  Great Lakes  say arent  covered due to the date of occurrence exclusion) the 
basis of a claim for unfair  dismissal follows on from success on those  other aspects. 
Mr S questions that the cost of the barristers opinion would have been lower, had all the 
information been included for review initially. On this basis he thinks  its unfair for Great 
Lakes not to pay for the further opinion. Ive considered this, but for the reasons outlined 
above, my opinion that Great Lakes  arent  liable for the cost of the further  barristers  advice 
remains unchanged. 
The compensation I proposed is in relation to delays. I accept that Great Lakes could have 
been more proactive about obtaining a barristers opinion. But for the reasons I outlined  in 
my provisional decision, I dont think this impacted on the underlying legal case. 
I understand Great Lakes comments that some delays in obtaining a legal opinion  were 
beyond their control as they were reliant  on their panel solicitors. And I accept a detailed 
analysis can take some time. But overall in the handling of the claim, I think  there  were  more 
delays then I would expect. And I think this wouldve caused Mr S some  avoidable  distress, 
so I think the £100 compensation is fair. 
Mr S thinks  the compensation is completely inadequate. I understand that the whole process 
has been difficult for him and his family. But this compensation is solely in relation to delays. 
I have to, as far as is possible, isolate the impact of these.  And in doing so Im satisfied £100 
is fair and Im not increasing this amount.  
summary
I understand that Mr S will likely find the outcome  of my decision disappointing. But as Ive 
previously explained,  Great  Lakes made  clear  the only aspect of the claim they would 
consider was constructive dismissal. 
I make  no comment  and no findings in relation to the other  aspects of the claim as I cant 
see that Great Lakes  have responded to a complaint on these points. If Mr S feels the 
Ref: DRN14055836exclusion in relation to the date of occurrence has been unfairly applied, he may wish to 
raise this with Great  Lakes in the first instance.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay Mr S £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1405583