K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has been  unable to locate funds she placed in a 
savings account.  
Background
Mrs F had a savings account with Lloyds that was accessed using a passbook.  Mrs F has 
told us she moved abroad in 1999 but left the account and savings in place. The account 
had £1,098.08 in it on 9 November 2001.  
s
Last year Mrs F found the passbook and asked  Lloyds  about the funds  in her account. 
Lloyds said the account had been  closed on 13 April 2005 which  meant there was no 
balance. 
Mrs F complained and referred  her complaint to our service. We initially  said the case  was 
out of time. But when  the case was referred to me I issued a decision that said we could  look 
into Mrs Fs complaint. The adjudicator then looked  at the merits of Mrs Fs complaint but 
didnt uphold  it. He said there was nothing  to show the account  remained open or that 
Mrs Fs funds were  still held by Lloyds. Mrs F asked to appeal  so her complaint has been 
referred to me to make  a decision. Mrs F is represented by her daughter in this case. For 
ease of review Ive referred  to Mrs F throughout.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I previously issued a decision that said 
our service  had the necessary powers to look into Mrs Fs complaint but I didnt make any 
findings on the particulars of her case. In this decision, Ill deal with the key issues of Mrs Fs 
complaint. 
In response to the adjudicator, Mrs F told us that she was abroad in April 2005 when the 
account was closed and that the balance wasnt received. I appreciate  Mrs F may have been 
abroad at the time, but customers dont have to be in the UK to operate or close an account. 
And Lloyds  has sent persuasive systems  evidence to show the account  in question was 
closed on 13 April 2005. 
The systems evidence  Ive seen shows two accounts were closed on 13 April 2005, 
including the savings account.  In addition, Lloyds has sent in evidence that shows its 
completed a search  of its systems and accounts but has been unable  to trace an open  
savings account  for Mrs F. Im satisfied no replacement account  was opened to take place of 
the original savings account after it was closed on 13 April 2005. 
Sometimes businesses  will close an account that hasnt been used for some time.  But Id 
expect an account  of that nature to have shown up when Lloyds completed its search on its 
dormancy register. But Lloyds didnt locate Mrs Fs account when it searched its records.  As 
Lloyds hasnt been able to locate  Mrs Fs account on its dormancy register,  I think  its more  
likely than not that the account was closed on 13 April 2005 and the funds released to Mrs F. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time there is only limited information available.  I note 
Mrs Fs point  that banks have been able to trace PPI for customers  going back many years. 
Ref: DRN15761842But Ive looked  at everything Lloyds  has been  able to find in relation to Mrs Fs savings 
account and Im satisfied  theres no trace of it after 13 April 2005. 
When information is incomplete Ill base my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is, 
what I consider most likely to have  happened  based  on all the available  information. In this 
case, Ive looked at all the available information  and I think  its most likely that Mrs F closed 
the account on 13 April 2005 and the funds were released to her which is why it hasnt been 
possible for Lloyds  to trace it. I understand the passbook wasnt  updated  to reflect  that. But 
there are circumstances where  passbooks arent  needed  to operate  an account and I think 
thats most  likely why the one Mrs F found doesnt match the banks records.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs F but Im satisfied the evidence shows the account was closed on 
13 April 2005. Whilst I cant say for certain  where  the funds were sent, I think  its most likely 
they were released  to Mrs F. 
Lloyds paid Mrs F £50 because of service  issues when  she tried to find out about her 
account. I think that £50 is fairly reflects the way Lloyds handled Mrs Fs queries. So Im not 
telling it to increase  the award or take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1576184