K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amount that CNA Insurance Company Limited (CNA) has paid him 
to settle a claim.
background
Mr K is the leaseholder of a commercial  property where the freeholder holds a property 
owners insurance policy underwritten by CNA. 
An escape  of water caused damage to Mr Ks property. CNA instructed a loss adjuster and 
the claim was agreed to be settled. CNA paid Mr K an initial payment but hes unhappy that 
it didnt include the value added tax (VAT)  element of the claim.  It was instead paid to the 
freeholder. Mr K would  like to have the VAT element paid to him.
CNA have  said the freeholder  is the policyholder. Mr K is the leaseholder and isnt 
mentioned within the policy as a named insured  or interested party . It says the settlement 
was issued in accordance  with the mandate it had received from the policyholder.  The 
policyholder instructed that the initial payment  was paid to Mr K directly  but the VAT would 
be paid to itself if an outstanding debt wasnt cleared  by Mr K. CNA  said it checked with the 
policyholder the day before payment was due and was told the debt was still outstanding, so 
it paid this element  of the claim to the policyholder.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought CNA had acted fairly in paying  the 
VAT element of the claim to the freeholder as its the policyholder.  
Mr K doesnt  agree.  He feels CNA shouldve been open and transparent about the mandate  
and it has deliberately concealed that the VAT wouldnt  be paid to him. He also said the VAT 
payment is due to the contractor and its therefore not the freeholders right to keep the 
payment regardless  of any dispute  he has with the freeholder. Mr K also directed our 
investigator to a part of the policy that he feels does make him an interested party.
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr K and the freeholder have an outstanding dispute and there is allegedly  
an outstanding  debt owed by Mr K. But this is not related to the insurance  claim with CNA. 
The contract of insurance in this case is between the policyholder - that is the freeholder  of 
the property and the insurer - CNA.  Ive looked  at the policy  and policy  certificate and Mr K is 
not listed as the policyholder, an insured person or as an interested party. I understand that 
Mr K is frustrated  because he has been  asking the freeholder to name  him on the policy  for 
some time, but from what Ive seen this doesnt  appear to have happened and that is a 
separate issue for Mr K to address directly  with the freeholder. 
Mr K has said that because he is a lessor  of the property that in the section of the policy 
under extensions clause 13 - other  interests would suggest that he is an interested party  
the clause says:
Ref: DRN11815442"the interest  of mortgagees freeholders and lessors is noted in property insured by this policy  
subject to the nature and extent of any such interest being disclosed in the event of damage"
But whether  Mr K is an interested party or not, CNAs  relationship is with the policyholder 
not with Mr K and so any claim  being paid out will go to the policyholder unless  the 
policyholder instructs  the insurer to pay a third party directly. This is how a contract of 
insurance works and I dont think CNA  did anything wrong.
The director  of the freehold signed  a contractors mandate with a caveat. In summary  it said,  
if the debt owed to the freeholder by Mr K is not paid, the VAT element will be paid to the 
policyholder. From  what Ive seen  the loss adjuster checked with the freeholder the day 
before payment was due and it was told the debt was still outstanding so the remainder of 
the claim was paid to the policyholder and not Mr K.
I understand Mr K feels CNA have deliberately concealed the mandate  but I dont consider 
that CNA  have a duty to disclose this to Mr K as its relationship is not with him.
From what  Ive seen CNA havent done  anything  wrong and it hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So I wont be asking them to do anything more  on this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 March 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1181544