K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a store 
card PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs S took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in May 
2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ss application form for the store card.  It has a separate  section for 
PPI and Mrs S has signed a box in that section  to request the policy.  She could have left the 
box blank if she didnt  want  the PPI. Beneath the PPI section there was another  section for a 
different sort of insurance, but Mrs S hasnt completed that section. If, as Mrs S suggests, 
she was misled into taking out insurance  cover, I might have expected her to end up with all 
the available  insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Ss recollection of 
events has faded.  Based on the available evidence, I think that FICL made Mrs S aware  that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Mrs S probably decided  to buy it, knowing  that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs S, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs S would have received sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs S would have received full pay for. Mrs S 
has provided evidence  of some savings from the time of the sale, but the policy  would have 
allowed her to retain these or use them to pay for other outgoings at what would have been 
a difficult time. Mrs S has also said she had a drawdown mortgage  at the time and could 
have released  funds from that. But having  the policy would have avoided the need for that. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs S has said,  but overall I think  Mrs S had a need  
for the policy and could  have benefitted from it if shed been unable to work due to illness or 
if shed lost her job. And she seems  to have found the policy  affordable.
Ref: DRN17389032Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs S had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs S isnt any worse  off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1738903