K820x#14complaint
Mr D says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in November 1998 at the same time as taking out a loan. Mr D says 
he applied  for the loan and PPI policy in branch. Due to the time that has passed, HSBC  is 
not clear how Mr D applied for his loan and/or PPI policy. Given what Mr D has told us, Ive 
considered this complaint on the basis that it was a branch  sale.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £476.84  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The PPI added  
£16.06 to the total monthly loan repayment.
The policy provided  cover  Mr D for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Ds monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as a refridgeration engineer. He has told us he was not 
entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay but had around £1000  in savings. Mr D has said 
he had medical  conditions which occurred before the time of the sale. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2001.
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr D about  the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr D and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN11148002The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN11148003The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ds case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr D know  he had a choice?
Ref: DRN11148004HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Given the length of time since the sale, HSBC  understandably  no longer has all the 
documents from the time of the sale. However,  it has provided us previously provided us 
with a sample of the type of credit agreement Mr D would have seen. Based on my 
understanding of the sales process, HSBC  would have included a creditor/loan protection 
declaration with its credit agreement. This would have provided Mr D with a choice  as to 
whether or not to take PPI. If he chose to take PPI out then this would have been reflected in 
the credit  agreement otherwise it would have been  left out. I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to be able to conclude that HSBC  deviated from this sales process on this particular  
occasion. And I havent seen evidence which would lead me to conclude  that Mr D was 
pressured into taking  PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr D knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC cant say whether  it provided  advice or not. Mr D (in his PPI questionnaire) says the 
sale was an advised  sale.
As I have treated this as a branch  sale and HSBC was known to have provided advice 
during such sales, I have treated this as an advised  sale. This also puts Mr D in a more 
favourable position as it means HSBC had to advise Mr D with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr D. It seems  Mr D cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
Ds financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mr D would have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  HSBC considered whether Mr D had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr D given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN11148005-Mr D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ds ability  to continue to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the savings  he says he had.
-Although Mr D has told us he was financially stretched at the time of the sale,  Ive 
seen nothing else which  would  support  Mr D found the monthly cost of the policy to 
have been unaffordable.  
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr D. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ds employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr D has told us about 
conditions he suffered from in the 1960s  and 1970. One of these  was treated by way 
of surgery and is most unlikely to have reoccurred. And I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that the other  condition  caused  Mr D ongoing problems or deteriorated 
over the years such that he would have decided against taking the policy out some 
30 years  later. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  health  
or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr D cancelled the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mr D had plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which 
might suggest a need to repay  the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr D sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr D was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr D was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr D would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was. And based  on the sample agreement  Ive seen I think the 
costs of the policy would have been sufficiently clear to Mr D. I say this because the sample 
agreement sets out the cost of the single premium, the interest  to be added  to it, the total 
cost and the monthly cost of the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr D Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr D. Im not persuaded HSBC gave  Mr D all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN11148006In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mr D? To what extent  did Mr D suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr D. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr D suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr D would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr D, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mr D would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr D says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
Ref: DRN11148007product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ds circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr D was given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr D would get back  in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ds expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions Mr D knew  of, or should 
reasonably have known of, on the start date on the policy;  or any medical  condition  
or disease for which Mr D received treatment,  advice  or was referred for investigation 
during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurred within 12 months of 
the start date.        
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr D repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr D to have done so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr D be unable  to 
do any work.
I do accept there is a possibility the and exclusions above might  well have caused Mr D 
pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as good as 
he thought and he might have  decided  not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, when 
coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded some consumers in 
slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr D has told us about medical conditions  he 
had before the sale, I dont think better  information  about this exclusion would have put him 
off agreeing to it. I say this because the conditions arose around  30 years before the sale 
and there  is no evidence to suggest that they caused any ongoing problems such that Mr D 
would have thought he might need  to take time off work because  of them at the point he 
agreed to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN11148008And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr D would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr D had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job, it might  have played into his thinking about 
what he would do. And I accept it may have given  him pause  for thought   although given  Mr 
Ds circumstances and the limited other means  he had to make his repayments if he wasnt 
working, on balance,  I still think he would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr D made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr D 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr D would not have 
bought the PPI he bought  unless , in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr D 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN11148009Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr D compensation,  as that would  put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr D and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1114800