K822xcomplaint
Ms O complains that Amigo Loans Ltd left incorrect information on her credit file; she says it 
failed to notify the credit reference  agencies  that shed settled her loan.
background 
Ms O says Amigo  didnt notify  the credit reference  agencies (CRAs) that shed settled  her 
loan and she says this affected  her ability to take out further credit with other financial 
businesses. Ms O told us:
she took out a loan with Amigo and settled it in September 2017. And she says she 
received a letter from Amigo confirming the account  had been  settled  and that it 
would notify the credit reference agencies. The letter explained that her credit  file 
would be updated within a few months.
a year later her credit  file still hadnt  been  updated and she says its affected her 
credit score and other applications for credit that shes made.
Amigo should compensate her for the service shes  received  and the problems it has 
caused her.
Amigo upheld part of Ms Os complaint. It says in October 2018 it discovered  an issue with 
its credit  file reporting; loans that were settled within 30 days  of their start date werent 
appearing on its reporting as having  been  settled. And as a result of this they didnt show  as 
having been settled on a customers credit  file. It explained that this problem affected  Ms O 
because she took out a loan for £6,500 on 15 September 2017 and settled the loan in full 
just three  days later.
Amigo says it sent a bulk  update to the CRAs in November 2018  to correct the position and 
customers credit files wouldve been  corrected within a few weeks.  It says Ms O complained 
to Amigo after it had already identified the problem and after it had taken action to correct it. 
It says it offered to provide Ms O with a letter explaining what  had happened so that she 
could use this if she applied for credit  before  her credit file was updated.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She 
explained that in addition  to what it had done  to correct things, she thought Amigo  shouldve 
notified Ms O of the credit reporting problem  when it was first identified. And she asked it to 
pay Ms O £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Ms O disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide. She says she doesnt  think  £100 is 
sufficient compensation given the length  of time given to Amigo  to make  amends.  She says 
she received more compensation when another bank mishandled telephone calls with her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  the evidence, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same reasons. I realise 
Ms O will be disappointed, so Ill explain my reasoning.
First of all, its important  that I explain my role isnt to punish businesses  for their 
performance or behaviour. Its to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced 
and see if the business, in this case Amigo, has done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to 
Ref: DRN12334742put the consumer back  in the position  they wouldve been in if the mistakes  hadnt 
happened. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
In this particular  case, Im satisfied that Amigo didnt  report Ms Os loan as being settled 
when it shouldve done. It took more  than 12 months for Amigo to advise the CRAs  of its 
mistake. So it took more  than 12 months  for Ms Os credit file to be updated to correctly 
reflect the fact that shed  settled her loan in September 2017. But Im also satisfied that 
Amigo did what it needed to do once it became aware of what  had happened,  and it notified 
the CRAs  of the correct position.  However,  like our investigator, I think  it wouldve been good 
practice for Amigo to proactively contact  Ms O and tell her that her credit file may have held 
incorrect information.
Ms O says this mistake  with her credit file resulted in her being declined  credit and Ive 
considered this point  very carefully. But Ms O hasnt been able to give me any evidence that 
shows she was declined  credit solely because of what Amigo did. So theres  just no way of 
knowing what effect this may have  had on Ms Os credit applications, or indeed  if it had any 
effect at all. Banks and credit card companies underwrite credit applications on many criteria 
 so its just not possible  to say what wouldve happened if Amigo  had updated Ms Os credit  
file when she first settled her loan.
Finally, turning to the matter of the distress and inconvenience  Amigo caused Ms O, I think  
that £100 in compensation is a fair and reasonable way to settle  this dispute. And Im going  
to ask Amigo to pay this to Ms O, if it hasnt already done so.
I know Ms O will be disappointed with the outcome of her complaint, but I hope she 
understands why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that Amigo Loans Ltd must  pay Ms O £100 to settle  this complaint fairly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1233474