K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down her 
claim under her pet insurance  policy.
My references to Red Sands include its agent.
Mrs Cs husband has brought this complaint  on her behalf but for ease Ill refer to his 
comments as being from Mrs C.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint,  and I include an extract  from my 
provisional decision here:
In June  2014  Mrs C took out a time limited pet insurance policy with Red Sands to cover 
her cat. 
In September  2018 Mrs C made  a claim  for the investigation and treatment of her cats 
pancreatitis, which had first started  with blood in the cats urine. The cat had also had 
vomiting and diarrhoea, and had lost a significant amount of weight. 
Red Sands  turned down the claim. It said the cat had suffered with vomiting and diarrhoea 
for years, dating back before the policy started. Red Sands  said this meant the condition was 
pre-existing and not covered under the policy. Also, it said Mrs C should have told it about  
the cats vomiting  and diarrhoea when she first took out the policy.  If she had it would have 
put an exclusion on the policy for all claims with respect to the digestive system. So it put 
this exclusion on the policy  and backdated it to June 2014, when the policy started.  
Mrs C came to us. She sent us a letter from her vet supporting the claim.  Our investigator 
ultimately concluded that Red Sands had made  a fair claims decision. Mrs C didnt agree so 
the complaints come  to me. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im likely to uphold this complaint. I think the fair outcome is for Red Sands to pay the claim 
and to remove the policy exclusion that it backdated  to June 2014. Ill explain why. 
The policy says a condition is pre-existing  if the cat showed any clinical  signs or symptoms  
of an illness  or was diagnosed with a condition before  the policys commencement date. Red 
Sands says that the cats condition is a pre-existing one because the signs or symptoms in 
July 2018  including diarrhoea  were the same  signs and symptoms experienced by the 
cat before the policys start date. Also,  it points  out the cat had had these symptoms on and 
off for years.   
Red Sands  has pointed to entries  in the vets clinical history where in July 2013  the cat had 
watery diarrhoea, but had been eating OK. The cat was wormed  and given an anti-
inflammatory medication. In January 2018  the cat (an indoor cat) was seen again by the vet. 
Ref: DRN14310122The notes indicate  Mrs C had said the cat had had diarrhoea on and off for years, but the cat 
had recently been  vomiting. The vet gave her the anti-inflammatory medication  again.
In July 2018 the cat was taken to the vet because  of blood in the urine, having lost a large  
amount of weight. The concern was around  the cat vomiting her food, together  with urgent 
diarrhoea. The cat was started on a hypoallergenic  diet and the vet did some  blood tests 
before diagnosing pancreatitis. The September 2018 notes refer to Mrs Cs comments  about  
the cats sensitive stomach  but also that earlier episodes  tended  to resolve  themselves.
As Red Sands is relying on the pre-existing  condition exclusion in the policy it must show,  on 
balance, its more likely than not that the cats 2018  pancreatitis was pre-existing.  
I dont think Red Sands has shown that the clinical sign of diarrhoea  experienced in 2013 
means that a condition  experienced in 2018, with clinical signs  of blood in urine, diarrhoea 
and sudden weight  loss, was pre-existing. Thats  the case even if the cat had experienced 
diarrhoea and vomiting in the intervening  period.  
Importantly, Mrs Cs vet has provided  a letter saying that:
The cat had presented (in July 2018) with a one month history of diarrhoea  and 
vomiting. The vet noted Mrs Cs comment that earlier episodes  of diarrhoea had 
resolved themselves. 
The cat was at its lightest weight since July 2013 with a distended  (swollen)  
abdomen. 
The blood tests indicated small intestine disease, due to low cobalamin (vitamin B12) 
level, and pancreatitis. 
After treatment with hypoallergenic food the cats condition improved, the diarrhoea 
resolved and the cat gained weight. The October  2018 tests showed  an improvement 
in one of the measures SpecfPL  (feline pancreatitis-specific lipase), which  is used to 
evaluate pancreatitis. This leads the vet to think the pancreatitis was acute and not 
chronic. 
The vet concluded that even though the cat had a history of diarrhoea,  the July 2018 
episode seemed  to be different and very severe compared to the past,  which makes 
the vet suspect  a different type of problem. 
So I dont  think the veterinary evidence supports that the cats claimed for condition was 
pre-existing. So I intend to find that Red Sands  must pay the claim, subject to the policy  limit 
and excess. I invite  Mrs C to let me know whether  shes paid the vets bill and, if so, to 
provide evidence of that as Im likely to require  Red Sands to add interest to the payment. 
Red Sands  has put a retrospective exclusion on the policy  for digestive  disorders, backdated  
to the policys  first start date in June 2014. We would only consider  this fair if it could show it 
had asked Mrs C clear  questions before she had taken  out the policy and shed not 
answered them with reasonable care. Ive reviewed the information Red Sands  says shed 
have seen about pre-existing conditions but I dont think  this shows  that Mrs C was asked 
questions. Rather  they appear  to be a list of policy assumptions. It follows that I think  Red 
Sands should  remove the retrospective policy exclusion. 
Under the policy Red Sands is able to place  a new exclusion from the renewal date after the 
claim (June 2019). It isnt entitled  to rely on the exclusion for any claim linked to the 
pancreatitis for 365 days from 18 July 2018, when the cat was first taken to the vet.
Ref: DRN14310123responses
Mrs C responded to say she was glad Id upheld the complaint. She explained that in 
February 2019 her cat had sadly had to be put down, due to her condition. She sent us the 
vets clinical history together  with the bills from the vets for all the treatments, which came  to 
just over £1,000.  She asked for the case to be finalised as soon as possible given it was a 
year since  shed raised it. 
Red Sands  responded to say that it still considered the cats condition had been pre-existing.  
It highlighted  information in the clinical records from before  the policys start date to support 
its point. Red Sands says that it would have put an exclusion from point of sale. In any 
event, it said that because of the history of symptoms, including  diarrhoea,  the onset date for 
the cats condition should be one year before the January  2018  consultation  (10 January 
2017). This means the time limit expired  on 9 January 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs Cs cat passed away earlier this year.
Ive considered the comments and evidence Ive received. Having done so, I still uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons given in my provisional  decision and here. 
Ive noted the episode  of diarrhoea and medication  given  in 2013, which Red Sands points 
out is used for a range of digestive concerns. But Ive not seen  any evidence that Red Sands 
asked Mrs C clear  questions  at the point  of sale in 2014 and that she failed to answer those 
questions carefully. That being so, Red Sands is not entitled to place a backdated  exclusion 
on the policy for claims relating to the digestive  system. 
Ive noted the 10 January 2018 episode of diarrhoea, together with the notes that the cat had 
had diarrhoea on and off for years.  The vet also noted the cat had been  vomiting  as well. 
The treatment given  was the same medication as earlier, and the differential diagnoses 
given included B12 deficiency.  (A differential  diagnosis is one of a list of various medical  
conditions that could have led to the presenting symptoms). 
Red Sands  says the 10 January 2018  entry means that that the onset date of the claimed for 
condition was January 2017  a year before  the cat was taken to the vet. But I dont  agree.  
I say this because  Mrs Cs vet has clearly said that July 2018 symptoms were  severe  and 
unlikely to be related  to earlier episodes  of diarrhoea which  had resolved themselves.  This 
meant the vet concluded the cat was suffering from a different  problem  in July 2018 than any 
earlier issues.
Ive not seen any vets evidence  to persuade  me that January 2017  should be the onset date 
for the claimed  for condition. And the cats own vet said it was likely the earlier  symptoms  
experience by the cat were unrelated to the July 2018 condition that Mrs C has claimed for. 
That being  the case, I still think the fair outcome  is for Red Sands  to pay the claim and not to 
rely on the digestive disorders exclusion for 365 days from 18 July 2018. Mrs C has sent 
evidence that shes paid the vets bills, which weve sent to Red Sands,  so it must add 8% 
simple interest as set out below. Mrs C may need  to provide a new claim form for any costs  
incurred since the original claim and if so Red Sands should send one to her. 
Ref: DRN14310124As the cat has sadly passed away Ive removed the section in my decision about the June 
2019 policy renewal  date, as it no longer applies. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to pay Mrs Cs claim for pancreatitis, subject to the policy  limit and any 
applicable excess. Mrs C has provided evidence that shes paid the vets bill so Red Sands 
must add simple interest*  to the resulting claim payment at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date she paid the vets bill until the date of settlement. 
I also require Red Sands to remove the retrospective policy  exclusion that it applied  to the 
policy for digestive disorders and backdated  to June 2014. Red Sands cant rely on this 
exclusion for any claim linked to the pancreatitis for 365 days  from 18 July 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1431012