K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds Bank PLC shouldnt have  retained money they overpaid  when  
they paid off a sub-account on their mortgage and should have told them  what was 
happening. They would like compensation for the stress suffered.
background
Mr and Mrs B have  a mortgage with Lloyds. At the end of 2018  Mr and Mrs B who were  
overpaying on sub-account 7 of their mortgage paid £363.65 towards  it. Although this 
account was in credit as there was still a balance remaining on the mortgage Lloyds 
allocated the credit to another  sub-account 5.
Mr and Mrs B feel that Lloyds shouldnt have done this and should  have  informed her what it 
was doing. When  Mrs B contacted Lloyds to find out what was going on she spoke to an 
adviser who didnt  know what was going on and had to wait on the line for an extended 
period to speak  to a manager.
Lloyds said that it followed its procedure in allocating the credit on one sub-account  to 
another if there was still a balance on the mortgage.  But  it accepted that it provided poor 
customer service  to Mr and Mrs B and said it would pay them £85. Our investigator didnt 
believe that Lloyds  had done anything  wrong in the way it moved money from one sub-
account to another and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
B disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On reading this complaint I can see how Mr and Mrs B were upset by all this and I sense 
that a lot of it was caused by simply not knowing what was going  on. Their  mortgage was 
coming to an end and Im sure they were monitoring the situation  closely  to insure  it was 
paid off. Because there was a credit following the closure of one account, Lloyds system  
effectively allocated the credit to another account.  It seems that Lloyds has acted under the 
terms of the mortgage  contract that they agreed  with Mr and Mrs B which allowed them to 
allocate money received from a direct debit  to sub-accounts.  But I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs B were  unsure where this credit  had gone so Mrs B made a very frustrating phone call 
to Lloyds.
Looking at the contact notes it seems  that in a phone call at the beginning of February 
Lloyds offered to request a refund of the overpayment of £98.03  but I expect at that stage Mr 
and Mrs Bs mortgage account was coming  to an end and it may have suited them  at that 
stage to leave  the money in the account. I understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration that having 
given the money  to the bank to pay off one sub-account, the credit was used to reduce the 
mortgage balance  without informing them. But under the terms of the mortgage  contract  I 
cant see that Lloyds  has done anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs B should be compensated for 
the frustration involved  in the phone  call and in the circumstances when they tried to find out 
what was happening.  But I believe  that the £85 offered by Lloyds  is appropriate. As I am not 
suggesting that Lloyds should  do anything more, I cant  fairly  uphold this complaint.   
Ref: DRN17658172my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1765817