K820x#14complaint
Mr L1 and Mr L2 complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont  agree to add 
Mr L2 to Mr L1s mortgage account. 
background
Mr L1 has an interest-only mortgage  with Halifax. The term expires in ten years. His adult  
son Mr L2 has lived with him at the mortgaged property for more than 35 years.  Mr L2 is 
disabled and unable  to work.  His income consists of welfare benefits. He wishes  to remain  in 
the house when Mr L1 dies. Mr L1 is 77.
Accordingly Mr L1 and Mr L2 asked Halifax to add Mr L2 as a party  to the mortgage.  Halifax  
said it had a responsibility as a lender to verify  that any lending was affordable and 
sustainable. It had concluded that it would be considered irresponsible for it to add Mr L2 to 
the mortgage as he may not be able to afford  the repayments in the future.
Mr L1 and Mr L2 made  a complaint to this service but our investigator  didnt recommend it 
be upheld. He said that if Mr L2 were added to the mortgage and something happened to 
Mr L1, Mr L2 would be liable for the full monthly mortgage payments and from the 
information given  to Halifax, this wouldnt be affordable for him alone. 
The investigator didnt  believe  adding Mr L2 to the mortgage would be affordable, 
sustainable in the future  or in the best interests  of everyone involved. A lender must  also 
take into account any health  issues and had a duty to lend responsibly. The investigator 
didnt believe it would  be responsible for Halifax to offer somebody with Mr L2s health  
conditions a mortgage and potentially encumber  them with debt.
Mr L1 and Mr L2 didnt agree and asked for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
They said that when  Mr L1 passed away Mr L2 wouldnt have to pay council  tax. If 
necessary he could apply for government support for mortgage interest. Mr L2s benefits  
were £828  every four weeks and the monthly  mortgage payment was £145. They said 
Halifaxs refusal was discriminatory.  
They suggested the family  might  put together a sum of money,  say £2,000,  to be placed  in 
an account to be used in the event of arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Equality  Act says,  broadly,  that a service  provider   such as a mortgage lender   
mustnt discriminate by not providing a service, or providing it on different  terms. Thats what 
Mr L1 and Mr L2 say has happened  here  that, because  of Mr L2s disability, Halifax  
refused to add him to the mortgage, and that was discriminatory.
But Halifax  didnt refuse to add Mr L2 to the mortgage because  he has a disability; it refused 
because he relies on benefits for his income.  In its final response letter dated 26 June 2018 
Halifax said:
Ref: DRN17248282We have a responsibility  as a lender to verify any lending  is affordable  and sustainable. We 
have concluded  that it would be considered irresponsible for us to add Mr L2 to the 
mortgage, as he may not be able to afford the mortgage  in the future.
Mr L1 and Mr L2 point out that Mr L2 can afford  the mortgage on his benefits. But a lender is 
required to make sure a mortgage  is affordable  over the whole term, not just at the start.  
Benefits arent guaranteed for life and changes to government policy  may mean potential  
cuts. If there are cuts,  benefit income  would go down  or even  be lost altogether. Recipients 
of benefits, particularly those unable to work,  arent able to influence  their income or replace 
lost income from other sources in the same way as those  in work. What Halifax  is concerned 
about here is the source and lack of permanency of Mr L2s income, rather  than the amount 
of it.
Adding Mr L2 to the mortgage  would also make him personally liable for repayment of the 
capital at the end of the term. I have no information  as to whether Mr L1 has a repayment  
vehicle in place.  The fourth paragraph of Halifaxs letter of 26 June  2018  suggests not. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Halifax treated Mr L2 unfairly or unreasonably in 
refusing to add him to the mortgage. It decided that his circumstances presented a higher 
risk to long term affordability  than it was comfortable with.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L1 and Mr L2 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1724828