K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited wouldnt consider his claim 
under his short-term  income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr B held a short-term income protection insurance policy  with Assurant. The policy would 
pay benefit for up to twelve  months in the event that Mr B was unable to work because of 
illness or injury, or he became involuntarily unemployed. The policy  was subject  to a one 
month deferred period before benefit  became payable. 
On 17 October 2018, Assurant wrote to all policyholders, including  Mr B, to advise that it 
would be discontinuing  the policy with effect  from 17 January 2019.  It said that Mr B would  
still be able to claim on his policy up to that date.
On 10 January 2019, Mr B suffered an accident which  meant he was temporarily unable to 
work. He made a claim  under his policy. Assurant, however, said that the 30-day deferred 
period meant that Mr Bs claim  wouldnt become payable until 9 February  2019  and because 
this was after the policy had ended, no benefit was payable.
Mr B was unhappy at Assurants decision.  He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  states:
We may cancel the policy at any time by giving You 90 days written  notice  at Your  
last known address
Im therefore  satisfied that Assurant was entitled to take the commercial decision to 
discontinue the policy.
However, the letter which Assurant sent to policyholders stated:
Please note that you will still be able to claim on your Income Protection cover  up 
until 17/01/2019
I consider that this implied the policy would continue to provide cover for any incapacity or 
unemployment provided this occurred before 17 January 2019. If Assurant hadnt intended 
this to be the case, it should have made this clear in the letter. Mr B would then have  known 
that, unless his insured event had already occurred, there was no point in paying for the 
policy beyond 18 December 2018  because he had no chance of making  a successful claim. 
I therefore consider  that Assurants letter was misleading and caused Mr B to be 
disadvantaged, not only in terms of falsely raised expectations but also because he may 
have taken steps to arrange alternative  cover  from 18 December 2018 had he known that he 
wouldnt be covered  for any incapacity  or unemployment which  began  after that date. In view 
of this, I consider  that Assurant should  assess Mr Bs claim regardless of the fact that the 
policy stopped  on 17 January 2019.
Ref: DRN17506332But even if Assurant had phrased its cancellation letter differently, I would still be intending to 
uphold this complaint.  This is because I dont think the policys  terms and conditions allow 
Assurant to act in the manner it has.
In its final response letter,  Assurant seemed to imply to Mr B that by invoking its right to cancel 
the policy by giving  90 days written notice, it would  absolve itself of liability  for all claims, including  
ongoing claims. In other words, even if Mr B had suffered incapacity and served the thirty day 
deferred period  before  17 January 2019,  it would  be liable  to pay benefit  only up to that date.
I disagree with Assurants interpretation  of the policy. I dont consider it would be fair for it to 
escape liability for ongoing claims in this way, nor do I consider that the policy allows  it to do so.
In respect of incapacity  benefit, the policy states:
5.4 We will pay the benefits  at calendar monthly  intervals during Your 
Incapacitation claim until;
the End Date;  or
You are no longer  Incapacitated; or
We have paid 12 Monthly Benefits,
whichever is the earlier
The policy describes End Date as:
the date Your cover ends  as set out in When Cover Ends.
Under the heading When Cover Ends,  the policy states:
8. The policy will end automatically and all Monthly Benefits will stop:
8.1 If You die; or
8.2 when You reach 65 or permanently retire (you must tell us as soon as 
possible); or
8.3 when You cancel the policy.
whichever is earlier
I have acknowledged  that Assurant is entitled to cancel the policy by giving 90 days written 
notice. However, such cancellation is not listed under either section 5.4 or section 8 of the 
policy as one of the events which would  cause benefit payments to stop. By cancelling the 
policy, Assurant will avoid liability for any event  which occurs after the cancellation date. But 
for claims  which start before that date, Assurant is liable to pay benefit for up to twelve  
months in accordance with the policys terms and conditions.  And it doesnt  matter that the 
deferred period  was still being served  when the cancellation date was reached; Mr B was 
still under  cover when  his incapacity, and hence his claim, began.
I therefore consider  that Assurant should assess Mr Bs claim. Furthermore,  I consider that 
its actions have caused him a degree of inconvenience  for which  it should pay him £75 
compensation.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN17506333Assurant responded  to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr B didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Assurant  has accepted my provisional  decision, and Mr B hasnt responded, I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.  I consider that Assurant was wrong  to tell Mr B 
it was too late for him to claim  benefit  under the policy. It should now assess his claim and 
pay him £75 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to assess Mr Bs claim regardless of the fact 
that the policy ended on 17 January 2019. I also require that it pays  Mr B £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1750633