K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about charges for damage to the car he leased from LeasePlan UK Limited.
background
When Mr D returned the car he hired  from LeasePlan it charged him for damage to the car. 
He suggested  that some of the damage  was so minor  he ought not to be charged to put the 
damage right. He indicated he thought the charges were too high anyway. Further,  in any 
event, he should  not be charged because LeasePlan didnt  explain up front that he might 
have to pay for repairs at the end of his hire agreement.
LeasePlans stance  was it was entitled to charge  Mr D for the repairs.  Further, it said the 
documentation it had suggested Mr D had agreed  the damage  was there he just didnt agree 
with the costs. It explained how it had calculated the charges.
Dissatisfied with this response Mr D came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In short,  he 
thought the agreement was clear that Mr D could  be charged for damage to the car that went  
beyond wear and tear. Our investigator  was satisfied the damage went beyond  wear and 
tear. Our investigator didnt agree that Mr D was being asked to pay too much. He was 
satisfied that Mr D ought reasonably to have known about  his obligations here.
LeasePlan accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr D did not. In summary,  he 
repeated his earlier stance, that some of the damage was so minor  that LeasePlan ought  not 
to charge for it. In addition, he pointed out he had not used his full mileage allowance. He 
thought this should also be taken  into account when assessing what he should fairly  owe to 
LeasePlan.
Mr D asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have finished my review of Mr Ds 
complaint. I am not upholding it. Please let me explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
why I think it is fair and reasonable that LeasePlan should be able to rely on the terms of the 
contract
Mr D initially said he was not aware of his obligation  to pay for damage that goes  beyond  
wear and tear. He indicated this part of his contract was never discussed with him and the 
first he knew  of it was when he was asked  to pay the charges. For this reason he suggested 
he should not be held to this obligation.  It is not clear  if he is still complaining about this point 
or not. To be on the safe side therefore  I have  looked  at this issue.  
Mr D signed the agreement. I think  that means I can take it that he read it or that he ought 
reasonably to have  done. I also think it is fair to suggest Mr D intended  to be bound  by the 
Ref: DRN19752652terms of the contract  he signed. It seems it is not in dispute that he freely  entered  into the 
agreement. Therefore, I think, as a starting point  at least, it is reasonable that LeasePlan be 
able to rely on the terms of the agreement. 
Mr D suggests that LeasePlan did not go through this part of the contract with him. I find it 
unlikely in the circumstances that he was not taken  through  the main  points of the contract  
beforehand. It would be highly irregular  for a business to expect  a customer to sign a legally  
binding agreement without doing this, albeit I accept Mr D may no longer  recall having gone 
through this process. 
Also, Mr D has not said he didnt have  an opportunity  to read the agreement  before he 
signed it. It may be that Mr D didnt  take the opportunity to read the contract before he 
signed it. I accept  that many of us might  find it something of a chore  to read through  the 
terms and conditions of an agreement before signing  it. But reading the contract before 
signing it, does offer an opportunity for potential misunderstandings to be avoided  or cleared 
up. Further, I think the contract is written in plain English. If he had read it, I think  he would 
have understood  that he was responsible for damage  that goes beyond  wear and tear.
For all of these reasons I think it is fair and reasonable that Mr D be held to the terms and 
conditions of the contract.
the cost of the repairs
The contract says Mr D is responsible for damage  that goes beyond wear  and tear. Mr D 
seems to accept that the damage  is all there, however, he just suggests that some of the 
charges are over the top. 
Ive had a look at the charges. They seem  proportionate for the damage.  Further,  LeasePlan 
has explained how it has come to calculate  the charges and specific  the steps it takes to try 
to minimise charges. And this approach  strikes me as being transparent and fair.
Mr D indicates that either the repairs are not all necessary or that some other, potentially 
cheaper method  could  be used to put things right. But LeasePlan has engaged professional 
car repairers  to assess the work and calculate the charges. On balance, I think  the experts  
assessment of what methods will be needed to put things right are more persuasive than 
Mr Ds assessment. 
For all of these reasons, in all of the circumstances, I dont agree that the charges are so 
disproportionate that it would not be fair and reasonable  to allow  LeasePlan to bill Mr D in 
line with the agreement.
the unused portion of the mileage allowance
Mr D may have  chosen not to use the full mileage allowance. Thats his choice to make. But 
the contract  sets out the basis on which the parties  wanted to contract. The contract does 
not make  provision for the parties  to take a mix and match approach to charges and 
allowances. I think therefore, it would be unreasonable for me now to unilaterally  insert new 
provisions into the contract that neither party contemplated when they agreed to contract 
with each other.
Ref: DRN19752653my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1975265