K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that JPRS (South  West) Limited (then trading as Loughtons) should  have 
recommended she transfer her  Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits to a 
different arrangement because of her then medical  diagnosis.
By not doing so Mrs P says that she lost out on an investment opportunity and transfer  
value, the latter because she has a new transfer  value which  is lower than the one 
obtained in September  2017.
Mrs P also complains about Loughtons advice bill of over £13,000 because  it advised 
against the transfer and so would not facilitate it. Mrs P says she now needs to find another  
adviser and so will incur further costs.  
background
Our adjudicator set out the background to this complaint  in his assessment. In summary, he 
said:
Mrs P has accrued benefits  in her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).
At age 55, Mrs P asked the administrators  of this pension scheme for a transfer  value. The 
administrators gave Mrs P a value effective at 26 September 2017  of £769,437.80 for her 
benefits in the scheme. She also had a non guaranteed Afterwork  element of
£17,334.59. 
Mrs P was aware that to transfer  she needed to get a financial  adviser  involved.  Mrs P was 
recommended by close friends to use Loughtons.
Mrs Ps husband spoke to Loughtons on 16 October 2017. Loughtons  has provided  a 
copy of some handwritten notes that includes the following  email  of 19 October:
"The cost of the initial advice is provided  on a non-contingent  charging basis. 
This means that our costs are payable whether we recommend that (Mrs 
P)retains the existing scheme or is advised to undertake an alternative  route  
such as the transfer  you proposed. A risk for her is that if we recommend she 
retains the existing  scheme  our fees will still be payable in full less the 
application fee of £25'
Attached to this email was a document with a breakdown of the cost of the advice.  The total 
was £13,170.  The largest item was £11,250  which  covered  "independent whole of market  
research and portfolio  reconstruction  including  asset  allocation  reflecting your needs  and 
objectives and the complexity of the advice  provided to you and charged at 1.5%  of the 
amoun t under consideration".
Mrs P (and her husband) signed  Loughtons' client agreement on 3 November 2017. 
Loughtons sent Mrs P an engagement letter on 6 November 2017. It referred to a meeting it 
had with Mrs P the previous Friday. It was recorded of Mrs P that she:
had been diagnosed  with breast  cancer in 2016  but was fully recovered  with a follow 
up course of treatment in the next 12 months;
Ref: DRN11479742wanted to focus on retirement planning  as a result of recent ill health and she and her 
husband and her husband wanted the accrued benefits in her ops transferred to a 
private arrangement  as it was likely Mrs P would retire before the normal  age for the 
ops;
was thinking  about using the pension fund for holidays and might move  house so 
£100,000 of the tax free cash available by transferring would  be required;
And later, the letter explained:
Loughton's  fee would be £13,462;
Mrs P was asked how she preferred to pay this;
o"A copy of the breakdown of our calculation is attached. As I mentioned to 
you during the meeting,  we do not operate a contingent charging 
structure. This means that we will charge these fees whether  our advice is 
to transfer the scheme  or leave the scheme in its current  format. There  is 
therefore a risk for you that we do not advise you to transfer the scheme. 
our advice charges will still be payable.  less any fees for applying (£25 per 
application )";
o"The above  charges include the cost of implementation of any financia l 
solutions indicated  above (where advised) ";
o"Please note that where you seek to vary our advice and we consider 
these  variances  are not in your best interests.  we may refuse to undertake  
to implement  your instructions although  our advice  charges will still be 
payable".
On 6 November  2017, Loughtons emailed Mrs P. It said its engagement  letter  could be 
accessed from the provided dropbox  link. Loughtons asked "how you would fund our fees if 
it was my advice to retain (Mrs Ps) existing scheme with (OPS), as the transfer  value would 
not be available to pay our costs".
Mrs P replied on 7 November 2017.  Her response  included :
"Implementation (5th bullet) -as you are acting on our behalf. please clarify- are you legally 
able to refuse our instruction?"
and
"Initial Advice- We would be able to fund your fees from our private funds but please  can you 
confirm how long we get to pay the £13,462  if it wasn't taken from the lump sum?'
Loughtons replied on 8 November 2017.Amongst  other points, it said:
"As per our duty and expectation from regulators.  We do not take instructions.  Our 
job is to provide advice.  If we don't  consider that a particular transaction  request is 
in your best interests.  then we will advise against that course of action and we will 
not implement that transaction  even  if you ask us to"
And:
"The advice is chargeable when I have completed my advice preparation  and 
documented my advice.  If you decided mid-process that you didn't want  to 
Ref: DRN11479743proceed.  our advice  charges would  be payable up to the point  we got to. Our 
invoice is payable within 30 days"
On 9 November  2017 Mrs P signed the letter  of 6 November 2017 to "accept  the terms and 
fees proposed .
Loughtons produced  a document entitled Current & Proposed  Portfolio. The proposed 
portfolio set out how Mrs P might (or should) invest the proceeds  of the OPS  transfer. 
This document is dated 22 November 2017.  This document followed an assessment of 
Mrs Ps attitude to investment risk.
I have seen Loughtons  Pension Transfer  Report,  otherwise  known as a Transfer Value
Analysis (TVAS) report. This report explained:
A critical yield of 7.86% was needed  in a personal arrangement  in order  to 
match the benefits at age 60. Over  £1million was needed to buy an annuity to 
match the OPS  scheme benefits;
A critical yield of 10.24% was required in order to match  the benefits  at age 58.
Nearly £1million was needed to buy an annuity  to match  the (OPS) scheme  
benefits;
The assumption was based on the least expensive drawdown arrangemen t 
from a large selection (with  standard charges and a range of investment 
funds ).
In its suitability report of December 2017,  Loughtons set out Mrs Ps circumstances and 
objectives. It said:
Mrs P intended to work for another three years;
If she took the OPS  benefits then, at age 58, there would be a reduction from the 
amount available at normal  retirement age 60;
she did not trust her employer or the government to play fair. She wanted  to transfer 
out of the OPS  while she had the opportunity;
she might use some  of the tax free cash to move home but there was no timescale 
for this;
intended spending £10,000  per annum  more  than currently  on holidays;
Mrs P did not need an income  from her pension until at least age 58. 
Loughtons said in its suitability report,  under  Investment Objectives :
(Mrs P) ultimately if your (employer) Defined  Benefit Pension  Scheme  was transferred to a 
private arrangement, you would use it to provide  you with an income from age 58 and to 
draw down  lump sums  to pay for the additional  holidays  that you would  wish to enjoy when 
you are no longer working  (over and above current holiday expenditure)   To sustain this 
level of income, you would  need to invest the capital so as to give the potential to achieve 
healthy returns that can provide this income, with some potential   for underlying capital 
growth, none  of which  is guaranteed..  This underlying capital growth is essential  if your 
income is to have the ability to grow  over time to counter  the effect  of inflation.  You 
recognise that there  is no guarantee  that this objective can be met. You face a number of 
risks within  an investment linked  pension  plan which you don't have exposure to within your 
existing (employer) Defined Benefit Pension Scheme.
Ref: DRN11479744Loughtons went  on to say a profiling  exercise showed Mrs P was willing to take a medium  to 
high risk to investments.  But  that following review of this, Mrs P was only willing to actually 
take a medium  risk. Loughtons then recorded in its suitability report  "you wouldn't want  to 
lose your money".
Later, in the report, Loughtons set out its analysis.  Some generic information  was given 
including that the industry  regulator's view was that a transfer  out of a defined benefit  
scheme is not usually  suitable for a consumer. The analysis  section  was then followed by 
Loughtons' recommendations. It said the regulations required it to show the transfer was in 
Mrs Ps best interests, based on contemporary evidence.  Loughtons then explained how it 
thought Mrs Ps objectives  could be best met. This included  keeping her benefits  in the 
OPSand drawing them  at the normal retirement age of 60.
Loughtons set out next why it believed its recommendations were suitable. This included that 
there was "a very good chance" she would get more  by remaining in the OPS.Then amongst 
other things,  Loughtons explained the possible consequences of being exposed  to 
investment risk now.  Loughtons did not see that Mrs P needed to take this risk. She could  
consider transferring out of the OPS in the future, especially  if her circumstances changed.
There were various other sections to the suitability report, including one on critical yield. 
Loughtons said the critical yield to match the benefits of the ops at age 58, when Mrs P 
intended to retire was 10.24%.  And to match at age 60 it was 7.86%.
Loughtons also explained that in respect  of the Lifetime Allowance, if Mrs P moved to a 
personal arrangement, investment growth  would likely mean  incurring excess  charges for 
breaching the LTA.
The cost of Loughtons advice was now £13,437 reduced from £13,462, because the advice 
was not to transfer.
Loughtons also made notes of a telephone conversation with Mrs P on 15 December
2017.  Its telephone note recorded that Mrs P explained her OPS  would  keep its transfer 
offer open  for another month if she decided to transfer of her own volition.  Loughtons said it 
would not be party to this. It said it had given  advice based on Mrs Ps current circumstances 
and objectives.  Mrs P said that Loughtons  must have had enough information at the first 
meeting on 3 November  2017 to decide whether a transfer was suitable.  
Loughtons reaffirmed  that its advice process must  determine if a transfer was in Mrs Ps best 
interests or not.
Loughtons noted "we then had a general discussion about the rationale for my advice. She 
felt that I was stopping  her from transferring  which in essence I am because my advice is 
that she doesn't transfer from the (DB OPS). 
Loughtons emailed Mrs P on 20 December 2017.  It referred to the 17 December call. The 
information Loughtons was relying  on had been updated to reflect what  had been  discussed. 
This included the value  of shares  Mrs P and her husband owned. Also Loughton's revised its 
cash flow model based on Mrs P moving to a three  day working week  from April 2018, 
instead of the four originally planned.
Loughtons said its conclusions remained unaltered and that it "calculated  that your 
disposable income this year and the next 2 years is sufficient to provide a surplus that can 
Ref: DRN11479745support your plans  to retire from age 58. This still leaves your shares and Afterwork  pension  
scheme intact but of course these  can be called upon if that is your wish".
Mrs P complained to Loughtons on 28 December 2017 about the advice not to transfer  out 
of the ops. 
Loughtons replied on 9 January 2018. It reiterated  the FCA's stance on transfers out of 
defined benefit pension schemes. It reiterated that having considered all Mrs Ps 
circumstances Loughtons remained confident its advice  not to transfer  was suitable.
Mrs P wrote further  to Loughtons on 17 January 2018. It replied on 30 January 2018.
Towards the end of its letter Loughtons said:
You have  commented on and sent an article  from the Daily Mail relating  to the (OPS). This 
has occurred after the advice  was provided  by (P). We are not actuaries and therefore not 
in a position to judge  the merits or otherwise  of this current situation with the pension  
scheme. The employer  has an obligation to pay the guaranteed  pension  benefits and work 
with the Pensions Regulator to ensure plans are put in place to meet future  liabilities (P) 
has documented this in his advice to you
I would like to finally  confirm  that the regulator  has stated that there  may be good  reasons 
for a person  to transfer  their Defined Benefit  Pension  scheme to a Money Purchase Pension 
scheme if it can be demonstrated from contemporary evidence  that a transfer is in the best 
interests of that person.  The evidence as contained on your file from your meetings  and 
conversations with (P) and the subsequently  analysis  that he has undertaken is 
inconclusive
Mrs P wrote further  on 5 February  2018,  to which Loughtons replied on 15 February 
2018.  
As part of its reply, Loughtons  said:
With regards to your question as to why (P) will not revisit his recommendations given what 
has transpired since he delivered his advice to you I would confirm that (Ps) obligations 
pursuant to the engagement between you and Loughtons (P)have been fulfilled. (P)has no 
obligation to revisit his advice in light of new information and our investigation of your 
complaint considered the information  available at the time the advice was provided.
Let me apologise  for the confusion when using the word 'Inconclusive'. My intention  was  to 
confirm that the regulator  has stated that there  may be good reasons  for a person   to 
transfer  their Defined  Benefit Pension  scheme   to a Money  Purchase  Pension scheme if  it 
can be demonstrated  from contemporary evidence,  that a transfer   is in the best interests  
of that person   The evidence  as contained   on your file, from your meetings and 
conversations  with (P) and the subsequent  analysis  that he has undertaken did not 
conclude  that  it would  be in your best interests   to transfer.  For the sake of clarity  and to 
avoid any confusion, I remain of the view, as has been stated throughout my 
correspondence with you, that the advice given  to you, recommending retaining  the Defined  
Benefit Scheme in its current format,  was the correct  advice.
Mrs P then referred her complaint to this service in March 2018.
Ref: DRN11479746Our adjudicator  concluded  that Mrs Ps complaint  should  not be upheld.  He set out his 
reasoning  in a detailed  assessment  of 27 July 2018.
In summary,  he agreed  that the regulator  had set a high  bar for a transfer  from a defined  
benefit  scheme  to a money  purchase  scheme  to be deemed  suitable  by an independent  
financial  adviser.  He was not persuaded  Loughtons  had breached  that regulatory  
obligation.  Its advice  process  was thorough  and comprehensively  addressed  Mrs Ps 
circumstances  at the time its advice  not to transfer  was proffered.  He was not persuaded  
that given  the medical  information  Mrs P gave  it at the time that it had 
He concluded  that in the circumstances, Loughtons fee was justified. It had been properly 
disclosed to Mrs P at the beginning  of the advice  process. It was made clear that the fee 
would be payable irrespective of the outcome of its advice process. Mrs P had signed an 
agreement to pay that fee in accordance with the terms and conditions of Loughtons  
engagement letter.  
Mrs P did not agree  and responded to the adjudicator on 8 August 2018. Mrs P confirmed 
that My main concern  is that in reaching his decision/recommendation,  (Loughtons)  did not, 
in my opinion, place enough  focus and emphasis on my health.
Mrs P was not persuaded the adjudicator fully understood this. Mrs P made  further 
comments, including that Loughtons had wrongly  applied the ONS statistics in reaching its 
advice not to transfer, had placed undue reliance  on a critical yield analysis,  adopted a 
laissez-faire attitude following its advice, disregarded her personal circumstances and 
objectives and had an excessive fee structure because it was paid its fee irrespective of 
whether a transfer was undertaken.
Our adjudicator then confirmed that as agreement was not reached, the matter  would be 
referred to an ombudsman.
In a later submission to this service, having  been  told by our adjudicator  that this complaint  
would now be referred to an ombudsman, Mrs P offered to settle her complaint if Loughtons 
would reduce its fee to £2500. But she asked  our adjudicator not to pass  this settlement offer 
to Loughtons. 
In response, our adjudicator agreed not to convey Mrs Ps offer to Loughtons. But he added 
that once the case was before an ombudsman,  the ombudsman may ask why Mrs P did not 
want her offer to be put to the business.
Our adjudicator correctly  anticipated my reaction to Mrs Ps unwillingness for her settlement 
offer to be put to the business. I therefore asked  Mrs P directly  for clarification of her 
reasoning for this. Mrs P reiterated that she did not believe the adjudicator had properly 
addressed her complaint and that Loughtons  had only relied on a critical yield analysis in 
reaching its advice  not to transfer.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11479747I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ps illness but glad that she is now in remission.
Substantial submissions have been  provided by both Loughtons and Mrs P. I am grateful for 
these. But my decision here only addresses  those matters I consider relevant to my 
decision. I do not intend addressing every  point raised.
Mrs P, in her submissions  to this service, has raised  a number of points. But it is clear that 
the crux of Mrs Ps complaint (apart from the matter of Loughtons fee which I deal with later 
in my decision) is that Loughtons failed to give sufficient  weight  to Mrs Ps recent  medical 
history in advising her not to transfer her accrued  benefits from her employers pension 
scheme to a personal  arrangement.  
Mrs P says that had it done so, its advice on a reasonable basis,  would have  been  to 
transfer. Accordingly, she has been  unsuitably  advised and so should  be redressed for this.
First, there are only rare instances where  transferring from a Defined Benefit scheme is in 
the interests of a consumer. The industry  regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority, has 
emphasised this to financial  advisers on a number of occasions,  including in 2017  when  
Loughtons advised Mrs P. 
The regulators stance on Defined  Benefit transfers is unequivocal. It said:
We have said repeatedly that, when advising on DB transfers, advisers should start from the 
position that a transfer is not suitable. It is deeply  concerning and disappointing to see that 
transfers are still being recommended at the levels we have seen.
In other  words, financial advisers were obliged by the regulator to apply rigorous  criteria  in 
deciding whether or not to advise  a client to transfer  from a Defined Benefit scheme. That 
overall context is relevant  in this case. It is not the case that financial advisers should be 
expected to offer advice consistent  with its clients wishes at the time. The advice must be 
objective, independent and recommend what the adviser concludes, in good faith, is a 
course of action in the best interests  of its client.
When advising a transfer from a DB scheme, the adviser would need  compelling evidence 
that it was in the best interests  of its client. In respect of illness,  a terminal or permanently 
debilitating condition  may, but not inevitably, justify a transfer.  
I have not seen any evidence to persuade me that Loughtons  failed in any of these  respects. 
I appreciate Mrs P now says she disagrees with the advice. That is her right of course  but it 
is not of itself evidence that she was unsuitably advised by Loughtons or that the advice 
process it undertook  (and which I have referred to at some length above) was either 
negligent or not in accordance with its regulatory  obligations.
Secondly, it was made clear to Mrs P, in Loughtons engagement letter,  that it was open to it, 
following consideration of all Mrs Ps circumstances, to conclude that a transfer from her 
OPS was not in her best interest.  Mrs P did not demur from this or tell Loughtons that her 
expectation was that it would  advise  her to complete the transfer. Instead, Mrs P by signing 
the engagement letter,  agreed to its terms.
Nor am I persuaded  that Loughtons should  have given greater emphasis in formulating its 
advice not to transfer, to Mrs Ps recent medical  history. It is not fair or reasonable for it to be 
regarded as a medical expert, particularly in terms of life expectancy.  In this respect, Mrs P 
Ref: DRN11479748has criticised Loughtons for using ONS  data to measure her life expectancy. But the 
regulator has said:
We are retaining the ONS mortality basis in the final guidance as we consider  this to be the 
most appropria te, and readily  available,  indica tor of future longevity for such  a diverse group of 
consume rs. 
The evidence I have  seen  shows  that at the time of advice,  Mrs P confirmed that she was in 
remission from breast cancer. She did not say that she expected (nor have I seen evidence  
to show that at the time, Mrs P insisted that Loughtons  should  weight more heavily her 
medical history against the other  factors  it explained it would consider in forming its advice.
In my view, Mrs P is relying on this assertion because she is disappointed that Loughtons 
advised her not to transfer. In other words, it is only following  the advice that Mrs P has now 
concluded that her medical history should have been the determining factor when Loughtons 
formulated its advice  not to transfer.
I think this argument  fails for a number of reasons. 
First, the documented  evidence at the time does not indicate that Mrs P wanted  her medical 
history to be paramount.  In fact, although  it was later amended to in remission, Mrs P 
signed a statement which said she was fully recovered. The fact find referred to Mrs Ps 
diagnosis causing  her to focus on retirement  planning but that is an entirely different matter 
to saying it should be the overriding consideration for Loughtons to take into account in 
recommending a transfer from Mrs Ps DB scheme.  Remaining in Mrs Ps OPS, as 
Loughtons advised, is an entirely  valid retirement plan.
Secondly, even  if Loughtons had given greater  weight to Mrs Ps medical history, it does not 
mean its advice would have inevitably been  to transfer from the OPS. The only circumstance 
I would expect this to possibly have applied  is if Mrs P had received a terminal diagnosis  or 
was suffering from a long term debilitating  condition. Happily, this was not the case.
The reality  is that at the time, Mrs P was in remission, albeit requiring further treatment. In 
those circumstances,  I do not think Loughtons should have effectively second guessed Mrs 
Ps own declaration  about her health and applied its own or a different judgement.  Had it 
done so and concluded the transfer was suitable  based on that factor  in isolation from all 
other considerations, it would in my view have been at serious risk of breaching its 
regulatory obligations.
Thirdly, it is clear from the documentation that Loughtons said it may well advise  Mrs P not 
to transfer. Mrs P, in accepting the terms and conditions of Loughtons engagement,  
presumably accepted  this might be the case.  In those  circumstances,  I think  it not 
unreasonable for Loughtons to infer that Mrs P had an open  mind in respect of the outcome 
of the advice process. 
I have not seen evidence to show that at the time,  Mrs P stressed  or emphasised that 
Loughtons must prioritise her medical history  and conclude,  based on that factor alone, that 
it must  advise her to transfer irrespective of any other factor Loughtons was obliged to 
consider in meeting its regulatory obligations.  Mrs Ps insistence  in respect of her medical 
history appears only to have crystallised after the advice process.  
But Loughtons could only formulate its advice based on what  was known  at the time. It 
would not be fair or reasonable to hold it to account  for a matter that Mrs P has only now 
Ref: DRN11479749emphasised should have  been the overriding matter  Loughtons should  rely on in determining 
its advice.
Had Mrs P emphasised this at the time, Loughtons would  then have  had an opportunity  to 
explain that it would need more compelling  evidence of Mrs Ps likely long term prognosis 
before acceding to her demand that her health  was paramount  in determining the transfer 
was suitable.
But in the event, unchallenged by Mrs P, Loughtons recorded Mrs Ps objectives in 
transferring as:
Due to (Mrs Ps) recent health  issue, this has brought your retirement into your immediate  
thinking. You said that you dont know how long any of us have and while you still have your 
health, you want to enjoy retirem ent, sooner rather than later. The earliest that you curren tly 
envisage drawing Sues pension  is at age 58 (Mrs P) will contin ue to work for a further 3 
years), but you say that ( her OPS  scheme) will penalise her by reducing her pension by 7% 
per annum if it is draw n early (before age 60). You dont want to let (her OPS scheme) 
reduce  the pension  in this way.
You dont  trust either (her OPS scheme) or the Government to play fair over the pension 
and wish to draw on it before they change the rules around tax free cash  entitlement or a 
similar restriction that would disadvantage  you and stop you achieving your objectives,
You therefore want to enjoy the pension fund from age 58 (or earlier if things change), while 
you still have your full health.  You have indicated that you want to enjoy some  special 
holidays and you have  estimated that these will cost £15,000 per annum (£10,000 more per 
annum than you currently spend ).
 You may also decide to use some of the tax-free  cash (now  known  as pension 
commencement lump sum or PCLS) to move to a new home You estimate  that a sum 
of £100,000 will be required to complete  the move, including selling your current  home  (You 
have a network of friends that you would  like to live nearer, but for the time being you 
cannot undertake  this ..
In my view, Loughtons  were entitled  to conclude from this that Mrs Ps circumstances were 
not so compelling  as to justify advising her then to transfer her DB funds. The impression 
was that at that time, Mrs Ps prognosis  was foreseeably  stable and that her objectives in 
transferring were not well developed or certain.  I am not persuaded that in these 
circumstances, Loughtons advice was either overly focussed on the critical yield or fell 
outside the spectrum of suitable advice.
I want to emphasise that it is not my intention here to suggest Mrs Ps diagnosis of breast  
cancer was not extremely distressing. I do understand that her worry and fears  about  her 
longer term situation  might not necessarily have  been allayed by being told she was in 
remission. So I appreciate  why she wanted to transfer and to then access  her funds. 
But my decision here must  be based on the evidence available to Loughtons at the time it 
advised Mrs P not to transfer. For the reasons explained  above, I have not seen evidence  to 
persuade me that Loughtons unreasonably discounted Mrs Ps medical history.  
Ref: DRN114797410In my view, it took a holistic view of all the circumstances, including  the critical yield analysis 
but concluded, that having given appropriate weight to all the factors it was obliged  to 
consider, that a transfer was not, at that time,  suitable for Mrs P. 
I also note that in her final submission  of November 2018, Mrs P acknowledged that she has 
some experience in financial  matters.  That being  the case, it is in my view reasonable to 
conclude that Mrs P would have  understood what she was told particularly in Loughtons 
engagement letter  and specifically that it may advise her not to transfer but in those 
circumstances, the fee would  be payable.  I am not persuaded by Mrs Ps assertion that 
Loughtons has failed her and simply shut the door
In my view, if Mrs P was only prepared to accept Loughtons fee if it concluded that a 
transfer was suitable, then Mrs P ought  to have made this clear by appending  or noting such 
a condition to her acceptance  of the fee proposed. But Mrs P did neither.
Loughtons disclosed  the fees Mrs P would be liable for prior to her engaging Loughtons. It 
made clear that the fee would be payable irrespective of the advice it eventually gave. Mrs P 
signed an agreement  to pay the fees.  As I have concluded that neither the advice process or 
the advice was deficient in any material way, I do not have any fair or reasonable basis on 
which to direct Loughtons to waive  or reduce its invoice. 
I also do not agree that our adjudicator failed to properly address Mrs Ps complaint. 
Mrs P says of our adjudicators comment, in responding  to Mrs P following his assessment, 
that it is simply not practical for an assessment or a decision  to include word for word  
everything that was written that it follows elements/words/writings were not reviewed and 
so his assessment  is flawed. 
I think Mrs P misinterprets what our adjudicator meant.  It is clearly not practical to reproduce  
in an adjudicators assessment (or in my decision here) all the evidence,  whether by 
documentation or oral exchanges, that has been submitted.
In this case, our file on Mrs Ps complaint is in excess  of 1000 pages. I trust Mrs P will agree 
that it is not reasonable to reproduce  such extensive file evidence  in our assessments  or 
decisions. 
But notwithstanding that, it does not mean  that all the submitted evidence has not been  
reviewed. I can assure Mrs P that it has been  reviewed and considered, both by the 
adjudicator in reaching his assessment and by me in reaching  my decision. 
Finally, I note that in Mrs Ps submission of 1 November  2018, Mrs P said:
.despite  my overriding disappointment  and belief  that  as their  client,  Loughtons  
have not  served  my  best interest , I   do acknowledge  that  they  will have  incurred costs 
which I  estimate are in the region of £2000 - £2500. It is my  belief   that  in  order  to settle 
this  matter in a manner that  I  think would  be fair to both  sides,  I  would be prepared,  
should your adjudication rule it to be a pragmatic outcome, to pay  these  costs in 'full 
and  final settlement'. (my emphasis)
In other  words, Mrs Ps offer was contingent on me upholding her complaint and directing 
Loughtons to accept a reduced fee in settlement. 
Ref: DRN114797411It is unfortunate that Mrs P did not want this service to put her settlement offer to Loughtons. 
I do not agree with her reason for this. Whilst I appreciate Mrs P thinks our adjudicator  had 
not been diligent in reaching  his conclusions, I cannot see why this is relevant to Mrs P not 
wanting this service to put her offer, made after the adjudicator reached his conclusions,  to 
Loughtons. An opportunity to possibly settle  this complaint, potentially to Mrs Ps advantage 
and without the need for my final decision,  has therefore been  missed.
But as I have concluded Loughtons should not be held to account for its advice to Mrs P, it 
follows I do not direct it to accept the reduced  fee Mrs P proposes in order  to bring about a 
full and final settlement  of this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2020.                                     
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1147974