K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr C says National Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
One of Mr Cs main complaint points is that he didnt  know  that hed agreed  to take out the 
PPI. While he acknowledges he signed  a separate direct debit form for the cover and that it 
was mentioned on the mortgage offer he signed, he says NatWest didnt explain what  it was. 
I accept that (over 15 years on) this is how Mr C might remember  things.  But I have to 
decide whats most likely, based  on all the available  evidence.  And I think its more likely 
Mr C chose to take out the PPI knowing it was optional.
Mr C recalls not having all the necessary information with him when he met with NatWest to 
discuss his new mortgage,  so he took all the paperwork home with him and then sent it to 
NatWest on 30 August 1996.  This would have  given Mr C the opportunity to consider 
everything in his own time. I note he was employed  as an insurance broker, so I would have  
expected him to understand the importance of checking through  the paperwork he was 
signing. 
As Mr C has acknowledged, the mortgage  offer document  does mention the PPI. It says:
You have selected  a monthly  benefit of £300  under Mortgage Protector Insurance. The 
monthly premium will be £15.00. You will pay only £12 for the first 12 months.
This makes it clear  that he was agreeing to take out some insurance and I wouldnt have 
expected him to agree to pay for something  if he didnt understand what  it was. The fact he 
had to sign a separate  direct debit form for the PPI suggests it was separate  to the mortgage 
itself, which  had a separate  direct debit form, and it wasnt part of the mortgage package. 
Mr C says hes been made redundant twice since the PPI started but he didnt make  a claim 
or even  initiate a claim, like he did with another insurance policy  he held. He says this shows 
he didnt know what the PPI was. But I think its just as likely that over the years since he 
took out the PPI, hed forgotten about it.
So, having  considered everything, I think its more likely NatWest made it clear that Mr C 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
This means  it didnt  have  to find out whether Mr C had any other ways of making his 
mortgage repayments if he wasnt working   such as asking  him about other insurance 
Ref: DRN18596492policies. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as Ive explained,  I think its likely he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover, despite the other insurance policy he says he had. Based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if something 
went wrong. So I dont  think better  information about  the PPI would have put him off taking  
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what he has said about  NatWest not 
cancelling the PPI even though hed asked for this to happen. The PPI was cancelled in 
January 2014,  almost  a year after Mr C first complained. Arguably, NatWest  could  have 
arranged this sooner  but the final response letter Mr C was sent in March 2013 made it clear 
what he needed to do to cancel the PPI  contact the insurer.  So Mr C could have  arranged  
this himself if he didnt want to carry on paying for the PPI.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest  treated  
him unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Cs commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1859649