K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank  unfairly declined  his 
claim brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He says the price and 
description of jewellery which he purchased was misrepresented.
background
Mr H is represented in this complaint by his wife Mrs H. But for ease of reading Ill mostly 
refer to him.
The facts  of this complaint  are well known to the parties. Briefly summarised, whilst abroad 
in March 2018, Mr H purchased  several items of jewellery from a retailer  Ill call A. He paid 
more than £8,000 using  his Clydesdale credit card. He subsequently discovered that these 
goods didnt match the description  which had been  applied.  And  he also claimed that A had 
altered and increased the price without  his knowledge. A professional  valuation  assessed 
the goods as worth  at most £5,050,  retail  value.
I issued my provisional decision several  months  ago in May 2020. I said that I thought that 
thered probably  been a breach of contract. And that Mr H should  be refunded the difference  
in value between  the goods  that were supplied and the value of the same items if they had 
been of the description applied. I emphasised that this difference  should be based only on a 
professional valuation of the items  themselves. And that I wasnt  seeking  to compensate Mr 
H for any additional loss which arose simply from him overpaying for the goods.
Both parties  have replied  and both agreed to my provisional decision. It would be fair to say 
that Mr H only reluctantly agreed as hed not been  able to get another valuation carried  out. 
And unfortunately that has still remained the case for several months due to the current 
pandemic. I thank both parties  for their replies and their patience.
As a result, and along with our investigator, Ive sought to see if an alternative  basis of 
resolving the complaint  might be available. In summary, Clydesdale was asked if it would 
offer a cash settlement without a need for a separate professional valuation. For reasons Ill 
explain in my final decision, I suggested a figure  of £1,262.50 with interest  added. 
Clydesdale agreed   although it didnt  feel any additional  interest  should be applied. Mr H 
didnt agree and said he thought the retailer had misrepresented the price of the goods.  And 
that he should get a refund of 50%.
This complaint has been ongoing since late 2018. And although its been affected by 
unforeseeable circumstances, I think its necessary to try to seek closure. Theres no 
guarantee that another professional valuation   which may not be possible  to obtain for 
several months  would materially change the current offer.  And of course it might result  in a 
lower  not just a higher   offer. Ive decided that I ought now to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10363322I can see that Mr H feels  strongly about this matter. And I understand that hed be 
disappointed to discover hed paid more than he thought had been  agreed. And that the 
items supplied werent as described.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. A breach of contract  
might occur if the goods supplied werent of the same description as that advised to the 
consumer. And thats partly whats been  alleged here.
Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding Clydesdales liability under section 75 - only a 
court could do that. We take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But 
we decide cases  by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. 
What Im deciding is whether Clydesdale did enough  in considering  Mr Hs complaint. And if 
it didnt, what else it should now do.
For obvious reasons  I wasnt present during negotiations about the jewellery. And so Ive to 
rely on a combination of the documentary  information and what  statements and testimony 
the parties provide.
Where information is unclear or facts  are in dispute - as is the case  here  I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Im aware that Mr H initially  believed hed inadvertently paid for the goods twice.  And its true 
there were two separate  credit card payments processed for equal amounts. But the invoice 
Ive seen sets out the price of the jewellery  and the discount. When  converted  into sterling  
from the local currency the invoice price approximates to the sterling equivalent. So I cant  
say that this shows a misrepresentation  as to price. The explanation appears to be that there 
was a limit on the size of each card transaction.
But the information also makes me think there  was probably a breach of contract in respect 
of the description  applied  to the goods. The goods sold by A were accompanied by a 
valuation certificate. This contained a description  of the jewellery along with its weight, colour 
and valuation.
The items which are the subject of this complaint are a pendant; ring and a bracelet. Each of 
these items  is described on the respective valuation certificates supplied by A as being 
London  Blue.
Mr H has had the items examined by a company Ill refer to as J. The items were  inspected 
by a valuation  expert  and found to be Swiss Blue".
Ive not made any direct  enquiries about the difference in value which  might apply in relation 
to these items. But Ive looked at some general  valuations and the price per carat of London 
Blue topaz  is generally higher than Swiss Blue topaz.
In order to avoid  any doubt as to the basis of my decision I need to make clear that the loss I 
refer to is intended to be based  on a professional valuation  of the difference  in value 
Ref: DRN10363323between the items as described and those  supplied. Im not suggesting  Mr H should be 
compensated for any loss which was simply due to items being  overpriced in general terms.
To illustrate  the point by example:
If the three items now identified as Swiss Blue were  to be valued at £5,000  retail  but would 
otherwise (if London  Blue) be valued at £6,000, Id assess Mr Hs loss as £1,000. Rather 
than as over £3,000 based on what he actually paid.
In suggesting  a fair settlement without  a professional valuation its very difficult to be precise  
about these issues.  Anecdotal  information  from various internet sites (which in the absence  
of an actual valuation  is all that is available)  suggests there  can be a wide variation between  
the price of Swiss  Blue and London Blue. Typically the latter  may be 10% - 40 % more  
expensive. Although there are wider variations. But it needs to be recognised that any 
valuation is based  on more than just the stone. I suggest a mid-range valuation of 25% extra 
is a fair compromise. This would result  in an increase in current valuation by £1,262.50.
I understand why Mr H thinks he should  receive 50% of the cost. But thats  based  on his 
view that the dealer  misrepresented  the price and not just the goods. And that it also altered 
the figures. Ive already indicated I dont  think theres enough information to show this 
occurred.
In summary,  the information shows to a high degree of probability  that a breach of contract 
occurred. As valuation certificate describes  the items supplied  as London Blue.  Js report 
shows they are Swiss Blue. On that basis I intend  to partially  uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  
In terms of the amount of interest  that should  be added, its normal to award  interest on 
refunded amounts from the date of payment to the date of settlement. But here as some of 
the delay has arisen  due to the lack of a second valuation,  I cant  hold Clydesdale 
responsible for that.
The parties had accepted  my provisional decision by 15 June 2020. I think  its fair to assume 
that it would  usually have been  possible to obtain  the valuation  and issue a final decision
(including the response time) for matters to have been settled by 31 July 2020.
So I think its fair and reasonable that interest  up to that point should be taken into 
consideration.
I realise that my final decision does  not provide all that Mr H would prefer in terms of 
compensation. But it brings to and end the involvement of this service in this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but only in 
part.
I now require Clydesdale  Bank Plc to take the following action in full and final settlement of 
this complaint:
1.Refund the sum of £1,262.50 to Mr H.
            And  refund any interest paid by Mr H in respect of this refunded amount;
Ref: DRN10363324If hes settled the debt relating to these items in full, to pay simple interest at the rate of 8%  
per year (on the refunded  amount only)  from the date of final payment to 31 July 2020.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1036332