K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
March 2008. Mrs A says Coventry Building Society  (Coventry) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs A says that she doesnt  remember PPI being offered as an optional product. 
However, I think Coventry made it clear that Mrs A didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out. I say this because, based on what  I have seen of the 
mortgage application documents in use at the time, I think its likely that the PPI was 
presented as an optional product. And this is further reflected in the mortgage offer 
document which also made it clear that the PPI was not compulsory. 
Coventry recommended  the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Coventry gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And, having considered her employers sick pay policy  at the time,  it seems 
like it would have still been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said including that she says her parents couldve 
helped her out financially with her mortgage  repayments if she couldnt  work. However  their 
financial support  could not be guaranteed,  particularly  if Mrs A was unable to work  due to 
sickness or unemployment for a prolonged period of time  so I think  she couldve found  the 
PPI to be useful.  So  these points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Coventry  needs to give Mrs A some  of the commission she 
paid, back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs As mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage,  they dont apply. So Coventry  doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs A paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN18358632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1835863