K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Phoenix  Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold her a Free Standing Additional  
Voluntary Contributions  (FSAVC) plan. She is represented by a complaints management 
company (CMC) that complains on her behalf. It says Mrs B shouldve  been advised to make 
Additional Voluntary Contributions  (AVC) to her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) or to 
take out an added years option instead.
 
background
In 1996 Mrs B met with Phoenix and took out an FSAVC pension  plan. She paid into the 
plan until 2016.  In 2018 Mrs B complained to Phoenix.  She said that Phoenix  should have 
recommended that she top up her existing pension  arrangements by taking an in-house AVC 
policy through her employers scheme. She said this would have provided  several  benefits 
which the FSAVC  did not.
Phoenix didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said when Mrs B met with the adviser in 1996, 
she had scope to pay additional voluntary contributions as she wouldnt have  been  able to 
obtain the maximum entitlement from her occupational scheme. It said it was recorded  that 
Mrs B was about to receive an increase in salary that would  enable  her to make additional 
contributions. Phoenix also said it was recorded  that Mrs B had discussed the AVC in-house  
option with representatives of her occupational  scheme. It said the regular premiums had 
been affordable  for Mrs B as she had paid them for a number  of years.  Phoenix  also said the 
unit linked  plan was suitable for Mrs B as she had a balanced attitude to risk. 
The CMC representing  Mrs B disagreed and referred Mrs Bs complaint to our service. It 
said that Mrs Bs attitude to risk hadnt been properly assessed by the business  and 
although she was said to have a balanced  attitude to risk her contributions were invested  in 
the high growth  fund,  which  it said was high risk. It said Mrs B was actually a conservative 
investor. 
The CMC said Phoenix had failed to specifically  discuss  the added  years option with Mrs B. 
It said the FSAVC plan was expensive and ineffective as for the first two years only 48% of 
the premiums were invested.  It said that Mrs B didnt need portability and that she would 
have chosen added  years  if that option had been explained to her.
The CMC said Phoenix hadnt  gathered all the information necessary to enable it to make  a 
suitable recommendation. It also said Phoenix  hadnt given Mrs B enough information  about 
the available  options. 
The investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint  but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She 
thought Phoenix  had followed the guidance  applicable at the time. 
The investigator noted the business records made  at the relevant time stated there had been 
discussion between Mrs B and the occupational scheme representative regarding in-house 
options and how these differed from the FSAVC  She also noted the costs had been 
discussed with Mrs B. 
The investigator took into account  that Mrs B had discussed the in-house options and also 
that Phoenixs adviser was unable to advise  on added  years.  So, she didnt think the adviser 
was required to discuss added years any further  with Mrs B.
Ref: DRN15477282The investigator also didnt agree  that Mrs B would  have  taken  the added  years option. She 
noted Phoenix had recorded Mrs B as having a balanced attitude to risk. The investigator 
said the cost of purchasing added years was based on a set of conservative assumptions 
determined by the scheme actuaries.  So, she thought it likely that the added years option  
would have been a comparatively expensive option. She thought  Mrs B would only have 
been able to afford about 2 added  years.  And the investigator noted  the cost of the added 
years would've been expected to increase in line with salary  increases and she couldnt see 
that Mrs B had ever increased contributions to her FSAVC plan.
Overall the investigator  thought it likely the potential  investment returns on the FSAVC would 
have been more attractive to Mrs B. 
The CMC disagreed. In summary it said recommending the FSAVC  when Mrs B wasnt  yet 
employed in her new position  and wasnt in a position to research  the alternatives was 
inappropriate. 
It said the decision to proceed with the recommendation was based  on the fact Mrs Bs 
husband had already  been sold an identical product.
The CMC said the fact find and report did not reflect Mrs Bs actual  position  or disclose the 
appropriate warnings. It said that Mrs Bs attitude to risk hadnt  been recorded properly. It 
also said the fund recommended  was high risk which didnt match  the level of risk Mrs B was 
willing to take.  
It said Phoenix had conceded  the same adviser didnt provide Mrs Bs husband with suitable 
advice for his identical FSAVC contract  when working for the same employer.
The CMC pointed out that whilst  added years  may have cost more, even the 2.5 added  
years the investigator  suggested Mrs B could have  purchased, would have provided a 
greater end benefit (income) that the FSAVC  recommended. 
Further information was sought from the business  and provided  to Mrs Bs representative. 
The CMC reiterated  the points made in the complaint. In summary it said the plan had been 
sold to Mrs B while she was in between jobs as she hadnt started  a new position at another  
school. 
It said there was no evidence she had a balanced risk appetite and no risk assessment had 
been carried out. The CMC said Mrs B had no disposable income and the plan 
recommended was not affordable at the point of sale. It said there  was no evidence  of future 
earnings and no evidence the adviser  had discussed added years. 
It pointed out Mrs B had accepted the recommendation on the basis it was the same as the 
recommendation made to her husband. It reiterated  that Phoenix had accepted her 
husbands plan was unsuitable. 
The CMC also said there  was no supporting documentation showing a comparison of 
benefits between  the different plans. It said there was no evidence  the fact find comments 
had been read and understood  by the applicant.
It reiterated its view that the fund was a high-risk fund and not suitable for Mrs Bs attitude to 
risk. 
Ref: DRN15477283As no agreement could be reached  Mrs Bs complaint was referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B met with Phoenixs adviser  in 1996 to discuss her retirement income. A fact find was 
completed which recorded her financial circumstances.  A financial  analysis  report was also 
prepared. Mrs B was married, in her late thirties and working as a teacher. She was a 
member of a final salary occupational pension scheme. The report recorded  she was about  
to receive a salary  increase. So, I think Mrs B was looking to increase  contributions  to her 
pension pot. 
The adviser had to consider the ways  Mrs B could achieve that objective  and make a 
suitable recommendation based on her circumstances  and objectives. Mrs B was 
recommended a FSAVC  plan. Her representative says that was an unsuitable 
recommendation. 
The advisers obligations at the time were  to draw the Mrs Bs attention to the in-house AVC 
plan; discuss the general differences between  the FSAVC and the AVC plans; and direct 
Mrs B to her employer or occupational  pension scheme for further information on the AVC 
options. But the adviser was not able to advise in relation to the AVC or added years option  
save to discuss the general differences between  those options and the FSAVC. 
This plan was taken  out more than 20 years  ago so there is limited information  available 
from the point of sale. But I can see that Mrs B met with the adviser on three occasions in 
April, June and July 2016. A financial analysis document was prepared at the time which 
was signed by Mrs B. It said that Mrs B had already  looked at the AVC option with a scheme  
representative. It recorded:
Client has looked  at this option and their representative has explained  the with-profits 
element available. 
It said she preferred a spread of investments  offered by unit-linked and the portability of 
the FSAVC.
It also recorded:
 Client prefers  to proceed with FSAVC  charges  are understood but potential  performance of 
the unit linking outweighs the with-profits contact.  
It also said that Client is aware of choice of options ...
So overall, I am satisfied  on balance that Mrs B had discussed the options offered by her 
occupational pension scheme  with a scheme  representative  before she even met with 
Phoenix. 
Ref: DRN15477284I note the CMC has said Phoenix  didnt collect information about  Mrs Bs circumstances 
properly. It also said as she hadnt started her new position at that point, she wasnt able to 
research the alternatives.  But I take into account that Mrs B signed the analysis report  which 
indicates she agreed with what had been recorded  and confirmed it was complete.  This 
included the discussions  that had taken  place around the in-house AVC option.
I appreciate there is no specific  reference  to added years in the point of sale documentation 
but given what  it recorded I consider it is likely to have been discussed as one of the options 
available. I note it was recorded that Mrs B was aware of the choice of options which  I think 
supports that conclusion  and Mrs B had already met with a representative of the Teachers 
pension scheme  to discuss her options  before meeting with Phoenix.  
In any event I dont  think  it likely  that Mrs B would  have  pursued that option. I agree with the 
investigator that Mrs B wouldnt have  been able to buy many added years  and the cost of the 
added years would've been  expected  to increase  in line with salary increases. I note there is 
reference to Mrs B restructuring her finances with her bank. I also take into account  that the 
FSAVC was more flexible, whereas with added years,  it probably  wouldnt have been 
possible to miss contributions. 
Mrs B also seems to have been relatively new to teaching so there  was more likelihood that 
she might  change careers. Consequently, the portability of a FSAVC  could have been a 
useful feature.
The CMC has said if the benefits of the added years  had been explained to Mrs B, she 
would have chosen that option as she was a conservative investor. 
In the event that Phoenix didnt do all it should have  to explain Mrs Bs options, I am not 
persuaded Mrs B would have opted for the in-house AVC or added years.
At the relevant time Mrs B was recorded  as having  a balanced  attitude  to risk which  was set 
out in the recommendations section  that was provided to her and signed by Mrs B. 
I take into account Mrs B already had a final salary occupational pension plan which 
represented a stable and more secure option  for retirement income. I think  she was looking 
to add to that pension  pot by using her disposable income. 
I note her representative disagrees and says there was no disposable income and the 
premium wasnt  affordable at the point of sale. I can see it was recorded in the financial 
analysis that income  and expenditure appeared to be tight. But it was also recorded that Mrs 
B and her husband  were in the process  of restructuring their finances and because     Mrs  B 
was expecting a salary increase, she was confident to proceed. 
Mrs B had expressed she wanted  the policy to start once she had received the salary rise, 
which was due in September  1996. This was also repeated in the application  form. So, I am 
satisfied that at the time Mrs B was confident of receiving this increase and that she felt she 
would be able to afford  the £30 monthly  premium. 
I note Mrs B was provided with a personal  illustration which showed what might  be achieved  
with the FSAVC plan depending on investment  performance. I agree the added years option  
would have in all likelihood provided greater certainty. But I think it is likely to have seemed 
less attractive to Mrs B than the FSAVC  plan, which the illustration showed had the potential  
to provide a good return on the premiums  paid. 
Ref: DRN15477285I note at that time investment  returns were expected to be good. So, I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to now judge  the situation based on knowledge of what  happened 
with investment returns over those  20 years or so. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to take out a FSAVC  plan was 
unsuitable taking  into account Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives at the time.  
Mrs Bs FSVAC  plan was invested  in the High Growth Fund which  was the highest  risk out of 
the five fund options available  for this plan- the lowest risk being cash. But the fact it was the 
highest risk fund available doesnt  necessarily mean it was high risk. 
Phoenix has explained that the High Growth Fund  was renamed the Managed Growth Fund 
in 1999. 
In 1996 there were  four unit linked fund options listed  in the plan literature and one unitised 
with-profits option. The unit linked funds were the High Growth  Fund,  the Balanced Growth  
Fund, the Pension  Protector Fund and the Cash Fund. In the post 1999 literature the same 
three funds  were listed but the High Growth Fund had been replaced by the Managed 
Growth Fund which carried  the most risk out of the four. So, I am satisfied on balance that 
the fund was renamed. 
The investment objective  for the High Growth Fund is described as follows:
This Fund aims to maximise long-term  growth. Whilst it avoids unduly speculative  
investments, limiting short term falls in value will be secondary to the long-term growth 
objective.
The Managed Growth Fund is described  in the post 1999 plan literature as follows:
The Managed Growth fund aims  to achieve  medium to long term capital growth through 
investing in some or all of UK equities and other related instruments, overseas equities and 
other related instruments,  fixed interest stocks,  index linked stocks, property and cash 
deposits either indirectly and/or via a number of other  funds and/or via unit trusts. The Fund 
will be actively managed with the constituents regularly reviewed and changed when 
deemed necessary,  although the majority of the Fund is normally in equities. 
So, I also take into account that the fund objective as described appears to be focused on 
longer term growth.  
I have to consider  whether this fund posed more risk than Mrs B was willing to take and 
whether she was able to take that level of risk. 
The fund fact sheet  provided by Phoenix,  although  much more recent and not from the point 
of sale, has similar characteristics to the Managed  Growth  Fund in the 1999 literature. It sets 
out the fund objectives  and how the fund is made  up. 
The objectives are described as:
To achieve medium to long term growth capital through  investing  in some or all of UK 
equities and other related instruments, overseas equities and other related instruments, fixed  
interest stocks, index linked stocks,  property and cash deposits.  
Ref: DRN15477286This managed fund could be made  up of between 40 to 85 percent  equities. This meant the 
level of equities  would  fluctuate  depending  on the performance of the markets  and the 
performance of other assets, such as bonds. The main asset type for this fund appears to be 
UK equities which would have been viewed as less risky than international equities.  In 
addition, it is also comprised of some lower risk assets such  as fixed interest stocks  and 
cash deposits. 
While I consider the fund invested Mrs Bs plan was invested in carried  more  than a low risk, 
I take into account this was a long-term  investment and longer-term growth was the objective 
of the fund. Mrs B was intending to retire  at 60 and she paid these premiums for 20 years.  I 
consider the money for the premiums was sourced from her disposable  income. Also, this 
was a top-up  pension  and Mrs B had another larger main pension  plan which provided more  
stability.
The recommendations report said:
High Growth Fund  was recommended by fund advice module. This reflected the overall 
profile of the client. The client  is aware the value  of units may fall as well as rise. 
I note Mrs Bs attitude to risk was recorded as balanced. While there is no record  that this 
was specifically defined, it doesnt appear  to be out of kilter  with her circumstances, 
particularly as this was a long-term investment.
I also note the High Growth Fund  was described  as a fund to be considered if you were 
unlikely to take retirement benefits within 5 years . This was a top-up plan for Mrs B, and she 
wasnt intending to retire for many more years. 
Overall, I think Mrs B was willing to take the level of risk posed by this fund and able to do 
so, with an affordable  amount of disposable income, in order to try and achieve a better 
return. 
And Im not persuaded that the recommendation to take out a FSAVC plan was unsuitable 
taking into account  Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives  at the time. 
From around 2013 the fund breakdown for Mrs Bs plan changed from year to year as lower 
risk funds were substituted for an increasing  proportion of the value of her plan under the 
lifestyle option. I note that in 2018 Phoenix asked Mrs B whether she wanted the lifestyle  
option to continue on her plan.  This would continue to switch funds in her plan to lower risk 
funds. 
She wrote back to Phoenix to say, having taken advice, the lifestyle switching option was not 
suitable for her needs and she didnt want her funds to be switched. So, it seems  at that 
point Mrs B didnt want to reduce her risk level, albeit the level of risk had reduced  from her 
initial position when  she first took out the plan.
I note as part of the complaint the CMC acting for Mrs B has said that the adviser acted  
incorrectly because Mrs B hadnt yet started her new position when the recommendation to 
take out a FSAVC plan was made. It seems from what is recorded at the time that Mrs B 
was confident of receiving  her salary increase in September 1996. But, even  if that was not 
the case, I dont  think there was any causative  effect. Because Mrs B paid the premiums  for 
20 years  which would strongly suggest the plan was affordable. 
Ref: DRN15477287I also note as part of the complaint it has been  suggested the fact that her husbands 
complaint was settled  indicates Mrs Bs complaint should also be upheld. I think each case 
has to be determined on its own particular  circumstances  something that may be suitable 
for one consumer with their financial circumstances and objectives  may not be suitable for 
another. So, Im not persuaded that factor  demonstrates  the advice given to Mrs B was 
unsuitable in the circumstances.
Overall I m not persuaded on balance that Phoenixs recommendation was unsuitable taking 
into account Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Bs complaint against  Phoenix  Life Limited is not upheld  for the 
reasons outlined in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1547728