K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by Marks  & Spencer. But Allianz has taken  responsibility  for the sale 
and by extension  this complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mrs K bought the PPI policy at the same time she took out a personal reserve  account by 
post in 1998. It gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment protection  and some  life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Mrs K disagreed with this
view so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz needed to make  sure it gave Mrs K an option to purchase  the PPI and Mrs K had to 
agree to buy it. Mrs K says the PPI box on the application form is only partially completed 
and had she agreed to have  the insurance  she would have completed it in full. 
Ive looked carefully  at the form. I think it made clear PPI was optional. I say this as Mrs K 
had to select it. The form shows that Mrs K ticked a box indicating that she wanted  to take 
out PPI and added her name. Mrs K says she would have written out her name in full, and 
Ive considered that carefully, but I also have to take into account how long the sale was, and 
how that might affect what she recalls.  And whilst I am not a handwriting  expert, it seems to 
me the way the PPI section is completed  is consistent with the rest of the form.
  
As she says,  she didnt tick main applicant  or complete  the date of birth field. I cant  know 
why, perhaps this was because  she had already given that information on the left had side of 
the form, or because she thought that only applied if the insured person wasnt  the main  
applicant  as I think the form intended. But regardless, as the sale was by post  so she 
was sent the application  form to her home address and then completed and returned it, I 
think its most likely  she selected PPI. I do understand  she might not remember  this given 
the time since the sale. 
I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mrs K. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it still needed to give Mrs K enough clear  information so that she could 
decide for herself whether  or not she wanted the policy.
Its possible that the information Allianz  gave Mrs K wasnt  as clear as it should have been. 
But even with better information I still think Mrs K would have taken out the PPI.
Ref: DRN15500372I say this because  Mrs K was eligible for the policy - and would  have been  until she 
completely retired 8 years after the sale as shes told us she was still working  over 16 hours 
a week. And she doesnt seem to be affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover and which might have made it more difficult to make a successful  claim,  such  as 
unusual employment  circumstances  or a pre-existing medical condition. I think  the policy  
was affordable and theres nothing to make  me think she had a particular need to keep her 
costs down.
Mrs K told us she would  have received three  months  full pay and three months half pay if 
she was sick from her employers. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this, 
covering 15% of the outstanding monthly balance on the account,  until Mrs K returned to 
work, or the outstanding balance was cleared. So I think the PPI would have been useful if 
Mrs K couldnt work or lost her job. 
So overall, I dont  think better information  would have changed Mrs Ks mind about  the PPI.
It follows I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz  did wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1550037