K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs K (the estate)  complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (the bank) 
maladministered various issues around the executors bank account and an associated  
insurance policy. 
The estate  says this maladministration caused serious harm to the executor and the 
executors children which the bank hasnt offered to compensate adequately.
background
The estate  complained in particular that:
The bank  set up an executors bank account incompletely (without a card and PIN) 
which meant it couldnt be operated properly.
The bank  wrongly refused  to allow certain important money  transfers to be made 
from the account.
The bank  wrongly wouldnt accept various forms of identification the executor offered 
to facilitate the transfers, leaving the executor feeling she didnt exist.
The bank  failed  to authenticate the executors signature when it had the means to do 
so.
It appeared to the executor that the bank locked her in a room  once when she visited  
the bank.
The bank  failed  to close the executors account  promptly when instructed.
The bank  asked  a very insensitive security question.
The bank  failed  to cancel an insurance  policy for the estate properly.
The banks actions  have caused  really serious  psychological harm  to the executor. 
The bank has admitted serious  failings in its dealings with the estate  and has offered a total 
of £650 compensation. The estate hasnt accepted this, saying its too little and doesnt 
acknowledge the full extent of the harm caused  by the bank.
Our adjudicator concluded the banks  offer of compensation was enough. She said the 
ombudsman service had no power to require a financial business to compensate third 
parties including the executor and her children.  We could only look into the banks actions 
towards the estate.  
The estate  hasnt accepted the adjudicators  conclusions. In particular, the executor has 
asked to be compensated for the grave  psychological harm  she says the banks actions 
have caused her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the estate, but Ive 
come to similar conclusions to the adjudicator.
Psychological harm
Ive felt a lot of sympathy for the executor. Her distress is considerable, and nothing I say 
should be taken  as minimising the strength of her feelings. But I need to explain  further  why 
Ref: DRN17131602the ombudsman  service cant require the bank to compensate  her in her capacity  as an 
executor, or her children.  
In law there are certain artificial persons which arent flesh and blood  individuals but are 
legal entities, like limited  companies, charities, trusts  and such  like. They are inanimate and 
can only act via living individuals,  for example via directors. 
The estate  of a deceased person is one such legal entity. It has legal  rights  and 
responsibilities, and in most cases it can only act via living individuals,  who are called 
executors or personal representatives.
Apart from certain exceptions that arent  relevant here, the ombudsman service  can only 
investigate complaints that are made  by customers of financial  businesses, and any 
compensation must be due to the customer,  not to the customers representatives. In the 
case of an estate, the estate is the customer,  not the executors or the beneficiaries.  
As Ive said,  an estate can only act via the executors. So if for example a bank causes 
executors to suffer inconvenience  when  theyre carrying out their duties as executors, that 
may amount to inconvenience suffered by the estate, for which the estate can be 
compensated. 
But clearly  the estate can only be compensated for things that an estate, as an inanimate 
entity, can suffer. Inconvenience is one such thing; financial loss is another.  But an estate 
cant suffer  psychological harm or distress. 
So Im afraid  the ombudsman service cant require the executor to be compensated for her 
psychological harm,  or the executors children.  They arent customers  of the bank, in their 
capacities as executor  and beneficiaries of the estate. 
I should add that, as I have no power  to investigate the question of possible psychological  
harm to the executor, I havent concluded  the bank  is responsible for the harm the executor 
says the bank has caused her. 
Has the bank offered enough compensation?
I too have concluded, like the adjudicator  and to be fair I think  the bank has concluded it as 
well  that the bank made  several  serious errors when dealing  with the estate, both in regard 
to the executors account and the insurance  policy. Ive reached the same conclusions  as 
the adjudicator  in these respects.  The fundamental point is that, if the bank had set up and 
the account correctly with a card and PIN (once the grant of probate  had been  registered), 
then in all likelihood  the later difficulties wouldnt have arisen.  
The confusion over the cancellation of the insurance policy then added to the sense of an 
ongoing lack of care. 
Ive concluded  £650 is a fair and reasonable sum to compensate the estate for the banks  
failings. 
Ref: DRN17131603my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already offered to pay the estate £650. If the estate now wishes  to 
accept that amount in full and final settlement of its complaint,  it should  kindly  confirm  this in 
writing, either to us or to the bank. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before  20 December 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1713160