K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background 
Mr A first took out car insurance with Ageas through a broker  in January 2014. He renewed  
his policy  with Ageas every year, the last being  in January 2018.
On 22 September  2018, Mr A was involved in an accident. It didnt involve his insured car 
but another one that wasnt  insured under his policy. Mr A claimed for the damage to that car 
in October 2018.  He said that car was covered by his policy because he was driving it under 
the driving of other  cars extension allowed  by his policy. Around a week  after the accident  
Mr A asked for his policy to be amended to substitute the original  car with the one that was 
involved in the accident.
After Mr As claim, Ageas  did some validation  checks. They said they discovered that when 
Mr A took out his policy in 2014, and during  each  of the subsequent renewals, he made  
misrepresentations. Ageas said if Mr A had given the correct information,  they would never 
have offered him cover. So, Ageas  said they were voiding (treating as though they never  
existed) his policies from the date the first policy began in 2014.  Ageas also didnt deal with 
Mr As claim. Ageas said they voided  the policies because  Mr A had made the following 
misrepresentations in relation to the policies:
He said the car wasnt modified but it was because  it had a vinyl wrap advertising  a 
business.
He said he was both the owner and registered  keeper  of the car. But he wasnt the 
owner, only the registered keeper.
Mr A complained. But Ageas rejected his complaint. They said that during their investigation 
Mr A told them the insured car was owned  by a company  and he was the registered keeper. 
However, Ageas said when Mr A took out the policy in 2014, he was asked to declare who 
the owner of the car was and who the registered  keeper was. They said the owner  and 
registered keeper  could  be the same person or entity, or the owner  could be a separate 
person or entity to the registered  keeper. But Mr A had told them he was both the owner and 
registered keeper.  Whereas in fact he wasnt the owner but only the registered  keeper. 
Likewise, Ageas said when Mr A took out the policy he was asked if the car had any 
modifications but he said it didnt. Ageas said the vinyl wrap  amounted  to a modification 
which should have  been declared.
Mr A felt Ageas decision was unfair,  so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He felt that Ageas acted fairly in voiding the policy.  As Mr A didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued two provisional decisions in this complaint, the first on 27 May 2020, and the
second on 9 July 2020. My provisional findings from both provisional decisions are 
appended to this final decision.
The parties were invited to comment on my second provisional decision dated  9 July 2020.  
Mr A accepted my provisional decision. Ageas made the following comments:
Ref: DRN12899742They have prepared  a letter  as requested detailing the premium refunds that have 
been made to Mr A.
They have corrected  all records to remove the voidance marker in relation to the 
2018 policy. The voidance  isnt recorded  on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  
(CUE).
The 22 September 2018 accident is showing as a non-fault  claim and Mr As no 
claims bonus wasnt affected. But if Ageas pay a claim  to be made by the other driver 
at a future date,  the claim will be changed to fault and the no claims bonus will be 
impacted.
In relation to the 22 September 2018 accident, a claims management company 
(CMC) contacted Ageas in October 2018.  The CMC said they were acting on behalf 
of the other driver involved in the accident.  Ageas told them that Mr A wasnt covered 
by the policy,  so they didnt deal with the claim.  Following my second provisional 
decision, Ageas contacted the other  drivers insurer at the time of the accident.  The 
insurer told Ageas that at the time they referred  the other  driver to the CMC. The 
matter was never referred back to the insurer, so they dont know how it was dealt 
with. Ageas said that if Mr A paid to have the other drivers car repaired and he asks 
Ageas to reimburse him, he will have to provide full receipts. And if Ageas does 
reimburse him his no claims bonus will be affected and CUE  will be amended to 
show the claim as fault.
They dont agree with my provisional finding on the issue of the modification.
In response to my comment  that a new contract  of insurance came into effect with 
each policy renewal, Ageas said they would  not have offered any cover to a 
customer had any single policy been  declared void previously.  And given Mr A had 
four previous policies that had been  voided  Ageas wouldnt have offered him cover.
Mr A tried to claim for the damage  to the car he was driving  on 22 September  2018 
which wasnt covered  under  his policy. When Ageas told him he wasnt covered  
under his policy he tried to claim under the driving other cars (DOC)  extension. In 
relation to DOC Mr As policy  certificate  said: "The  policyholder may also drive any 
motor car not belonging to him (her) and not hired to him (her) under a hire purchase 
agreement. The V5C (logbook)  for that car stated  that Mr A acquired the car on 
7 September 2018. Ageas said this suggests  that Mr A believed that he owned  the 
car on the date he acquired it, therefore  he wasnt covered  under the DOC extension. 
In response to my decision that Ageas should pay Mr A £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Ageas said if they have to pay for the other  drivers 
damage resulting  from the 22 September 2018  accident, in accordance with my 
provisional decision, Mr A will be liable for the time on risk charge for the period 
10 January to 25 October 2018.  The time on risk charge is £276.78.  Ageas propose  
that amount  be deducted from the £300 compensation and the balance together  with 
8% interest be paid to Mr A. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  
unchanged. But I would like to respond  to Ageas further comments  as follows:
The 22 September 2018 accident is currently showing as a non-fault  claim and 
Mr As no claims  bonus wasnt affected.  I agree with Ageas that if they make  a 
payment in relation to that accident, whether thats  in response to a future claim to be 
made by the other driver  or to reimburse Mr A if hes already paid to repair  the other 
Ref: DRN12899743drivers car, it will be reasonable  for Ageas to amend  the claim to fault  and to 
correct his no claims bonus history.
Im aware that Ageas dont agree  with my provisional decision on the issue  of the 
modification. Ive dealt with that issue fully in my provisional decisions, so I wont 
repeat what Ive said. Ageas havent provided any further information  that convinces  
me to change my decision.
In response to my comment  that a new contract  of insurance came into effect with 
each policy renewal, Ageas said they would  not have offered any cover to a 
customer had any single policy been  declared void previously.  And given Mr A had 
four previous policies that had been  voided  Ageas wouldnt have offered him cover. I 
acknowledge Ageas position  on this point but I dont think I have to comment other 
than to say Ive agreed that Ageas were reasonable in voiding the four policies in 
2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. However,  at the time that Mr A took out his policy in 
2018, Ageas  hadn't, at that stage,  voided any earlier policies. So, it couldn't have 
refused cover on the basis of previously voided  policies  as that hadn't happened.
Ageas  said that because the V5C (logbook) for the car that was involved in the 
accident stated  Mr A acquired it on 7 September 2018, it meant that Mr A believed 
he owned the car from that date. Therefore, he wasnt covered under  the DOC 
extension because  the policy says DOC only applies to cars not owned  by Mr A. I 
dont agree with Ageas. The V5C only contains the details of the registered keeper of 
the car not its owner.  Mr A has never  said he owned the car, he said it was owned by 
a company. Mr A has no influence over the wording  used  on the V5C.  The form is 
pre-populated with wording including acquired vehicle on. In that section  Mr A was 
required to specify the date he became the registered keeper. He said that happened 
on 7 September  2018. It doesnt mean he owned  the car from that date nor does it 
mean he believed  that to be the case.  For the reasons given  in my provisional 
decisions, Im satisfied Mr A was covered by the DOC extension  when he had the 
accident.
Ageas  said if they are required  to pay for the other drivers damage  resulting from the 
22 September 2018 accident, Mr A will have to pay the time on risk charge for the 
period 10 January  to 25 October 2018.  The time on risk charge is £276.78.  Ageas 
suggested that amount be deducted from the £300 compensation and the balance  
together with 8% interest be paid to Mr A. In response to my provisional decisions 
Mr A didnt  confirm whether or not he did pay to repair the other drivers car nor did 
he say he would  be asking Ageas  for any reimbursement. If Mr A did pay to repair  
the other drivers car and intends to ask Ageas for reimbursement, he should be 
aware that: he must provide receipts and proof to satisfy Ageas that he incurred  
those costs; he is also aware that if he asks for reimbursement, or if the other driver 
makes a claim which Ageas pay, he will have  to pay Ageas the time on risk charge of 
£276.78; the claim will be changed  to fault on CUE; and that his no claims bonus  
will be impacted. As Mr A hasnt said he intends  to ask Ageas for any 
reimbursement, Ageas  should  go ahead and pay the £300 compensation in full.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance  
Limited to:
Provide Mr A with a letter setting out the premium refunds they made to him for each 
of the five policy years between 2014 and 2018.
Correct all internal and external records to remove the voidance marker from Mr As 
driving record in relation  to the 2018 policy.
Ref: DRN12899744Deal with the claim  arising  from the 22 September 2018 accident,  as described 
above, under the terms of the policy if Mr A asks Ageas to do so.
Pay Mr A £300 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. This should  be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr A has accepted my final decision. If 
they pay later than this, they must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept
or reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
1 If Ageas consider that they are required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr A how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN12899745Appended
Provisional decision dated 9 July 2020 which incorporates the provisional decision of 
27 May 2020.
My first provisional  decision was issued  on 27 May 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
Ageas have said that what  Mr A did by declaring  the car had no modifications and 
that he was the owner amounted to, what is known in the insurance industry,  a 
careless misrepresentation.  And theres specific legislation - the Consumer  Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers 
may do in such a situation. It says that an insurer may void the policy  and refuse all 
claims if they wouldnt have provided cover  had the correct information been  given by 
the policyholder  when  applying for the policy. Where that happens the insurer must 
return the premium. 
Under CIDRA, Mr A had a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. To assess  whether  or not Mr A took reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation  I have to look to see if Ageas questions were  clear. Ageas have 
said that given  the policy was taken  out in 2014, the call recording is no longer  
available. I have to therefore look at what other evidence there is.
Ageas have provided a document that is known as a new  business proposal form. 
That was completed  by the broker  who sold the policy over the phone  in 2014. It has 
a number of questions that the broker would have asked Mr A to get all the relevant  
information before the broker arranged the policy with Ageas. There is a box with 
Modified that is ticked No. Mr A has accepted that at the time he took out the 
policy his car was wrapped  in vinyl advertising.  Ageas have  said that meant  the car 
was modified so Mr A should have declared it. But Mr A said his understanding  of a 
modification to a car was mechanical alterations which  would enhance a vehicles 
performance and thus make it more of a risk to insure. He also pointed out that the 
examples of modifications contained  in a document Ageas later sent him were 
spoilers, alloy wheels etc. So, his understanding of a modification  was something 
that may have enhanced his car's  performance. But there isnt any evidence  to show 
what was discussed  on this issue when Mr A applied for the policy.  And I agree with 
Mr A in that many people  wouldnt  consider  advertisement  or vinyl wrapping to be a 
modification to a car. And when Mr A was questioned by Ageas  during the validation  
process, he immediately  said his car had been  wrapped in vinyl advertising since he 
took out the policy in 2014.  If the extent of the question to him in 2014  was something 
like does  your car have  any modifications?  then I dont think that was clear enough. 
And if, as appears he did, Mr A said his car wasnt modified I dont think he has made 
a misrepresentation  because  I think  he answered the question to the best of his 
ability at the time.
When Mr As policy renewed every January in 2015, 2016, 2017  and 2018 Ageas 
sent him a document called Private Car Proposal  Form. That document  included 
the information Ageas relied on in providing insurance to Mr A. It confirmed his car 
had no modifications.  It also said that if there was any incorrect  information  or if he 
Ref: DRN12899746had any doubts  about the accuracy of the information he should  raise that with 
Ageas. But Mr A didnt  do that and by accepting  the renewal every year he was 
effectively reconfirming his declaration that his car didnt have any modifications.  
Every time his policy renewed  a new insurance contract came  into existence  and 
Mr A had to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. But the examples 
of modifications given on the Proposal Forms were  spoilers and alloy wheels. And as 
I've said above,  given  I think  many people wouldnt consider vinyl wrap advertising 
around a car to be a modification, I dont think Mr A made a misrepresentation at 
each renewal about that. That would  mean  Ageas didnt have any of the remedies 
available to them under  CIDRA  and couldnt void the policy for that reason.
But aside from the issue of the modification to the car, Ageas said Mr A made  a 
second misrepresentation that allowed them to void the policy. They  said he told 
them that he both owned the car being insured and that he was its registered keeper. 
Mr A accepts that when  he took out the policy in 2014 and during all subsequent 
renewals he didnt own the car. It was owned  by a company that let him use it. But he 
was the registered keeper. Ageas said had they known  he wasnt  the owner they 
wouldnt have insured him.
As the call recording is no longer in existence  I dont  know  what  was discussed in 
2014. But the brokers new business form I mentioned  earlier contains a box that 
says Registered Owner  which is ticked yes. Mr A has said that he never told the 
broker that he owned the car and that the broker must have just assumed he did. 
And I note from the form that the combination  of the words Registered Owner is 
somewhat unusual. A car will have an owner and a registered keeper. They can both 
be the same  person or entity or different people  or entities. And from my experience  
questions asked to establish this information  distinguish owner and registered 
keeper. But the brokers form seems to combine the two which  I think is confusing.  I 
would have expected two separate parts  asking  who the owner is and who the 
registered keeper  is. So I cant be sure whether  Mr A was asked clearly  whether he 
was the owner  and/or  the registered keeper.
But as Ive mentioned above, when Mr A first took out the policy  and during the 
subsequent renewals, Ageas sent him a Proposal Form confirming the details of his 
cover. Those forms had the following information:
Registered keeper  of vehicle  Proposer
Owner of Vehicle   Proposer
The proposer was Mr A. The expectation  was that Mr A would have carefully 
checked those  forms and told Ageas if any of the information was incorrect.  But he 
didnt do that.
Ive said above  that I cant  be sure if Mr A was asked a clear question as to who the 
owner of the car was. And our service  expects to see that a clear question was asked 
where misrepresentation is alleged. But CIDRA specifically says that: a failure by the 
consumer to comply with the insurers request  to confirm or amend particulars 
previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for the purposes of this Act. 
So, in Mr As case, Ageas sent him a Proposal Form in which they told him to read all 
the information carefully as he had a duty to provide accurate information. It went on 
to say that Ageas based the policy on the information he had given, as contained in 
Ref: DRN12899747the form, and if its later found that there is inaccurate information, the policy  may be 
invalid. And in the policy terms and conditions a similar warning was given.
I have seen Ageas  underwriting  criteria.  Each  insurer sets their own underwriting 
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide 
someone with cover.  Ageas  rules that applied  to Mr As policies between 2014 and 
2017 said that they wouldnt  insure anyone where the car was owned  by someone 
other than the policyholder. And as the car insured by Mr A was owned by a 
company Im satisfied  Ageas wouldnt have offered cover had they known that. And 
when Ageas sent Mr A the Proposal  Form when  he took out the policy  in 2014, and 
during the renewals in 2015,  2016  and 2017,  that was Ageas request to Mr A to 
confirm or amend the details on which his policy was based,  including  that he was 
the owner of the car. But Mr A didnt tell Ageas that he wasnt the owner. I therefore 
think he made a careless misrepresentation.
Ageas were  therefore  entitled to void the policies where Mr A had made a careless 
misrepresentation that he was the owner of the car and during which time Ageas 
underwriting rules said they wouldnt insure him if he wasnt  the owner  of the car. 
Those policy years were 2014, 2015,  2016  and 2017. So I think  it was reasonable for 
Ageas to void those  policies. But under CIDRA,  where a policy  is voided under  these  
circumstances the insurer must  refund the premium. But Ageas didnt do that. I 
therefore intend to require  them to refund  Mr As premiums in full for the four policy 
years between 2014 and 2017. Ageas should  also add simple interest at a rate of 8% 
a year to the total refund from the date they voided those policies on 
25 October 2018 until the refund is made.
Ageas underwriting rules  changed on 1 January 2018. Their new rules said they 
would provide insurance cover to someone where the owner  of the car was a 
company other than the proposer and the registered keeper was the 
proposer/policyholder. When Mr As policy renewed on 10 January 2018 he, as the 
proposer and policyholder, was the registered keeper. And the owner  of the car was 
a company. So, according to Ageas rules Mr A met the criteria to be given cover.  But 
Ageas also voided  that policy. Although I note they also said they voided it on the 
basis that the car was modified. But for the reasons Ive given  above,  I disagree with 
Ageas and I intend to find that Mr A didnt misrepresent the position  in relation to the 
cars modification. Therefore Ageas shouldnt have voided his 2018 policy.
This brings  me onto the issue of Mr As accident  while driving a different car to the 
one that was properly insured under his policy. Mr A has explained that on 
7 September 2018, he was supplied a new car. It was a car owned  by the company 
that owned and supplied  the first car he insured with Ageas since  2014. Mr A said as 
the new car was to replace the old one he knew he had to apply to the DVLA to 
record himself  as being the registered  keeper. He said there was a delay in the 
owner of the car sending him the documentation.  So, when he had the accident  with 
the new car on 22 September 2018, he hadnt yet asked Ageas to amend the policy 
to cover it. But Mr A said he was aware that his policy allowed him to drive  other  cars 
so he was covered  when  he had the accident.
Ageas said that as Mr A owned the new car that was involved in the accident  his 
policy didnt cover him under the driving of other  cars extension.  But I think Ageas 
are mistaken. The policy says: The policyholder may also drive  any motor car not 
belonging to him (her) and not hired to him (her)  under a hire purchase agreement.  
Ref: DRN12899748[My emphasis]. And Ageas have accepted that the new car that was involved in the 
accident was owned by a company,  not Mr A. That means at the time of the accident 
Mr A wasnt  driving a car that he owned, so his driving of other cars extension 
covered him. And Ive already explained why I think Ageas were  wrong to void that 
policy which  means Mr As policy was valid at the time. I therefore  think it wasnt  
reasonable for Ageas to refuse  to deal with the claim.
Most policies  that provide a driving of other  cars extension cover  third party  risks 
only. That means if Mr As accident caused damage  to the other car and it was 
Mr As fault, Ageas would only have to pay to have the other  car fixed but they 
wouldnt have to pay to have Mr As car fixed or replaced. But I havent  been 
provided with the details  of the cover  Ageas offered  Mr A under the driving other cars 
term. Ageas  should therefore deal with that claim under the policy terms if they 
havent already  done so.
I also intend to require Ageas to correct all internal and external records,  including  
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE),  to remove the voidance marker from 
Mr As driving record for the 2018 policy.
When the 2018 policy was voided  on 25 October  2018, there  was still around 
10 weeks remaining before the policys end date.  I understand Mr A wasnt  given a 
premium refund. If thats the case,  Ageas should make a pro-rata  refund to Mr A from 
the date of the voidance  until the end date of his policy. Ageas should  also pay 
simple interest at a rate of 8% a year on that amount from the date of the voidance 
until the refund is made.
Im aware that this matter has been a source of distress  and inconvenience  for Mr A 
and it has been  ongoing for over a year and a half. To address the impact of that I 
intend to require Ageas to pay Mr A £300  compensation.
To summarise, I intend to find that:
Mr A didnt  make any qualifying misrepresentations in relation to the cars 
modifications. So, Ageas werent  entitled to void any of his policies for that 
reason.
At the time that Mr A had his accident he did meet Ageas criteria for them to 
insure him as the registered  keeper of the car, so I don't think it was fair for 
Ageas to void the policy  which  began on 10 January  2018.
Mr A did make qualifying misrepresentations in relation to his 2014,  2015, 2016 
and 2017 policies. Ageas were therefore  entitled to void those policies.
Ageas  should  have  dealt with Mr As claim resulting  from the accident in 
September 2018 because he was covered under the driving other  cars 
extension.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr A accepted  my provisional decision.  
Ageas didnt and said:
Our service had in a past complaint found in Ageas favour  where the circumstances 
were similar in relation to modifications to a car.
After the voidance, all premium refunds were made to Mr A in November 2018.
If my provisional decision stands and the voidance is overturned, Mr A must  pay the 
full premium of £1,586.99 minus the £300  compensation  plus 8% interest. 
Ref: DRN12899749Only once Mr A pays the premium  will Ageas deal with the third-partyc  claim (if there 
is one) arising from the accident  on 22 September 2018. Mr A cant claim for the 
damage to the car he was driving given the driving  other cars extension  only covers  
third party  risks.
If Ageas pay the claim the incident  will be recorded as a fault  claim against Mr As 
record. And if there is a fault claim no premium refund will be due.
Once Mr A has paid the premium the voidance  will be changed to a cancellation. 
my provisional findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and having considered 
Ageas further  points,  my provisional findings are as follows:
Its correct  that a fellow ombudsman issued a final decision in June  2018  in which 
she didnt uphold  a consumers complaint against  Ageas.  The issue  in that case 
involved Ageas  voiding the consumers policy because a number of his vehicles were 
modified because they had signage on them. The consumer hadnt disclosed the 
modifications to Ageas.  But the circumstances of that case  are different to Mr As. 
And we consider each case on its individual merits. Ill explain. In the past case when 
the consumer  bought  the policy online he was asked  if any of his vehicles had been  
modified. He answered no. To help the consumer answer  that question  there  was a 
help note beside the question that said the following:
Please ensure you disclose all modifications. If you have more  than 5 
modifications please call us for a quotation.  Modifications would  include  
changes to the bodywork such as spoilers or body kits, changes  to 
suspension or brakes, cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels, changes 
affecting performance such as changes to the engine management system or 
exhaust system. Please be aware  that this is not a full list of all possible 
changes. [The underlined text is my emphasis]
The consumer argued in that case that most people would  consider a modification to 
be something unusual  or mechanical. The ombudsman  found against the consumer 
in that case because information  was provided to the consumer to help him answer 
the question correctly. That information  explained that a modification also included 
cosmetic  changes.
But in Mr As case, he took out the policy over the phone through  a broker. And as 
explained in my first provisional decision,  the call recording is no longer in existence. 
So, I dont know exactly what he was asked  and what information he was given. 
Whereas in the past case, as Ive quoted above, I know  that the consumer was 
assisted in answering the question online with the aid of a help note. So, while the 
two cases are similar to the extent that they involve a modification not being 
disclosed by a consumer,  I think the circumstances are very different. Im therefore 
not persuaded to change my decision as I still believe  Mr A didnt  make  a qualifying  
misrepresentation by not disclosing to Ageas the vinyl wrap  advertising.
I said in my provisional decision that it was reasonable for Ageas to void the policies 
in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017.  I said because  Ageas had voided those policies they 
should have refunded  Mr As premiums but they hadnt. But Ageas have confirmed 
that they did refund the premiums  for those  four policy years  and also the 2018 policy 
Ref: DRN128997410year in November 2018. Ageas said the total refund they made  to Mr A for those five 
policy years  was £1,586.99. I think it would be helpful if Ageas provide Mr A with a 
letter with a breakdown showing the refunds  made for each of the five policy years 
between 2014  and 2018.
Ageas  said that if my provisional  decision stands and the voidance is overturned, 
then Mr A must pay the full premium of £1,586.99 minus the £300  compensation plus 
8% interest. I dont agree with Ageas. In my provisional decision I said that Ageas 
were reasonable in voiding the four policies between  2014  and 2017, so I didnt 
suggest they be overturned. I only said that the voidance of the 2018 policy was 
unreasonable. And according to the policy schedule  for that year the total premium  
(including Insurance Premium Tax) was £318.80. A new contract  of insurance came 
into effect with each policy renewal. So, each policy has to be looked  at separately 
rather than collectively.  Therefore  my decision that the voidance of the 2018 policy 
should be overturned  doesnt have a bearing on the previous four policies. Its 
therefore not reasonable for Ageas to ask Mr A to pay for those policies where  I have 
said they were properly voided.
For the reasons  given  in my first provisional decision, Im still of the opinion  that 
Ageas voidance of the 2018 policy was unreasonable.  Ageas should  therefore 
correct all internal and external databases,  including CUE, to remove  the voidance 
marker. I had also said that at the time Ageas voided the 2018 policy,  on 
25 October 2018, there was still around 10 weeks remaining before the policy  was 
due to end. My understanding at the time was that Ageas hadnt refunded the 
premium. I therefore  said Ageas should  make a pro-rata refund for the period 
between the date of cancellation until the intended end date of the policy which  was 
10 January 2019. But Ageas have confirmed that they refunded  the full premium  for 
the 2018 policy.
I explained in my first provisional decision that Ageas shouldnt have voided the 2018 
policy and that Mr A was properly covered  under the driving other cars extension at 
the time he had the accident  in September 2018.  I therefore  said Ageas should  now 
deal with any claim (if any) that arose  from that accident under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Ageas have confirmed that under the driving of other  cars 
extension only third party risks were covered. That means Mr A wasnt  entitled to 
claim for any damage to the car he was driving under his policy.  And Ageas  were 
only responsible  to deal with a claim from the other driver.  The accident  was almost 
two years ago. I dont know how that matter was resolved between Mr A and the 
other driver. I dont know if the other  driver claimed against Mr A directly or whether 
Mr A dealt  with the other drivers claim himself. But, given  my view that Mr A was 
properly covered under his policy at the time of the accident, Ageas should have 
dealt with any claim from the other driver. If say the other driver did claim against    
Mr A directly and Mr A paid for the other  cars damage to be repaired, Ageas should 
now, if Mr A wants them to, look to cover that claim by reimbursing Mr As reasonable 
costs he paid to repair the other car. But if that happens and Ageas does end up with 
an outlay (paying for the claim), then I think its reasonable for Ageas to record the 
accident as a fault claim against Mr As driving  history. So, its a matter for Mr A to 
decide whether  or not he wants Ageas to deal with the claim (if any) from the other  
driver. And if its the case that the other driver did claim against Mr A and that Mr A 
paid for the damage which Mr A wants Ageas to reimburse, then I think it would be 
reasonable for Ageas to ask Mr A to pay for the premium before they deal with any 
claim. But the premium Mr A should pay for should be pro-rata for the period from the 
Ref: DRN128997411policys commencement on 10 January 2018 until the cancellation on 25 October 
2018. Mr A shouldnt be expected to pay for the full 2018 policy year given Ageas 
cancellation was unreasonable.  Thats because by voiding the policy  when they did, 
Ageas deprived  Mr A of the benefit  of having cover for the remainder of the policy 
term which is why I dont  think  it would  be fair for Ageas to ask him to pay for the 
period he didnt have cover. And if that does  happen and Mr A pays  the premium as 
Ive explained,  I think Ageas  suggestion  that the voidance be changed to a 
cancellation is unreasonable.  Thats because, as explained in my first provisional 
decision, the 2018 policy was valid. 
But if Ageas do, on Mr As request, deal with the claim and make a payment to settle  
it then I think it would be reasonable for Ageas to ask him to pay the premium for the 
2018 policy up to the date it was voided. Thats because if Ageas pay a claim Mr A 
would have benefitted from the policy. But if Mr A decides he doesnt want Ageas to 
deal with any claim Mr A may have paid himself, even though  my provisional decision 
is that the voidance for the 2018 policy should be overturned, and the policy  treated 
as though it was in force  and valid, I dont think it would be reasonable for Ageas to 
ask Mr A to pay the premium for that policy year. Thats because Ageas didnt 
provide Mr A with a full years cover  and he was deprived of the opportunity  of 
earning a years no claims bonus.
Given Ageas havent dealt with Mr A fairly, in particular wrongly voiding the 2018 
policy, I intend to require Ageas to pay Mr A £300 compensation to address the 
impact of the distress  and inconvenience he experienced.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold  this complaint in part. I intend to require
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Provide Mr A with a letter setting out the premium refunds they made to him for each 
of the five policy years between 2014 and 2018.
Correct all internal and external records, including CUE, to remove the voidance  
marker from Mr As driving  record in relation to the 2018 policy.
Deal with the claim  arising  from the 22 September 2018 accident,  as described 
above, under the terms of the policy if Mr A asks Ageas to do so. 
Pay Mr A £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1289974