K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the actions that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) took both before and after 
hed been the victim of a scam. He believes HSBC misled him by giving him incorrect  
information  which resulted in him sending  payments to a scammer. 
background
On 17 January 2019 Mr R called HSBC. He had some questions about a £50 deposit 
payment he was looking to make  for a car he saw advertised for sale online.  Subsequently 
Mr R made  five faster payments between  18 January and 20 January 2019, totalling £310,  
from his account  to the sellers bank, which Ill refer to as bank  N.
Mr R became concerned  with the lack of responses  from the seller and contacted HSBC on 
29 January 2019  to ask for a refund for the full amount he had sent. He told HSBC hed been 
assured prior to making the payments that he would be insured,  the matter  would  be 
treated as fraud  and the money would be returned to him within  20 days.
HSBC wrote to Mr R the next day to say it appears  he had been the victim of an authorised  
push payment (APP) scam. However, it was unable to agree to a refund as Mr R had 
willingly made the payments. HSBC  concluded it had made no error in processing the 
payments. It had followed its legal obligation  and processed the payments in accordance to 
his instructions. HSBC  said it had taken the step to contact bank N, to advise it of the 
allegations against its customer and that Mr R was free to raise a dispute with bank N 
directly but there was no further action it could  take. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr R brought  his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She thought HSBC didnt make any errors in 
allowing the payments to leave Mr Rs account. She also said she had listened to the 
relevant calls between  Mr R and HSBC. She was satisfied that HSBC  provided Mr R with 
adequate advice  in that there was a possibility of recovering his money, but this was not 
a definite assurance. She also found  that HSBC  did contact bank N in an attempt to recover  
the funds  which is as shed expect  in these circumstances. Based on this she concluded 
that she didnt  think HSBC needed to make a refund.   
Mr R disagreed and questioned  whether the investigator had listened to the initial  call. He 
believed had she done, she wouldve heard that HSBC had provided misleading and 
incorrect information. He felt strongly that had HSBC  not misinformed him he wouldnt have 
sent the payments. Mr R claimed multiple  discussions  took place and asked for a copy  of the 
call recording  to ensure  the right call was put forward as evidence before the case was 
reviewed by an ombudsman. The investigator confirmed to Mr R that shed  listened  to the 
call recording  and asked HSBC for its consent to share. 
HSBC didnt agree for our service  to share  the call recording with Mr R. But said,  he can, 
however, request this directly. 
As Mr R didnt  agree with the investigators findings  and had requested his complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
 
Ref: DRN19684252After reviewing the case I felt it would  be helpful  for Mr R to hear the call recording  so I 
asked HSBC for its permission to share  this information. HSBC made an exception and 
agreed that we could  share the call recording of 17 January 2019 with Mr R. 
I spoke to Mr R to explain wed been given consent to share  the call recording from 
17 January 2019.  Mr R was grateful, however, he said hed made several  calls and is 
concerned HSBC hasnt  shared everything with our service. He also feels that HSBC  telling 
him it possibly could recover his money was misleading and what  HSBC  shouldve said is 
that it possibly wont be able to recover his money - creating reasonable doubt. Had HSBC 
done this he wouldnt  have sent the payments. He believes by responding in the way it did, 
HSBC misled him, giving  him confidence, his money would be refunded. I asked Mr R to let 
me know once hed listened to the call whether he accepts the investigators findings  or 
would still like me to review his complaint. If the latter, I invited Mr R to make any 
submissions and/or submit any further  evidence hed like me to consider before I issue my 
decision. 
Mr R didnt respond with anything further,  and the time for doing  so expired. So, Ive gone on 
to issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, Mr R doesnt dispute authorising the payments in the first instance and HSBC  had an 
obligation to follow his instructions in line with the mandate it held on the account. Having 
considered the circumstances of the payments Im persuaded HSBC  acted  correctly  in 
executing Mr Rs payments as he had instructed. I dont think there was anything  unusual 
which shouldve aroused HSBCs suspicions or caused it to stop the payments after hed 
authorised them. 
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that he would never have  made  the payments, if HSBC, 
when asked, had correctly informed him that it may not be able to recover his money. 
Mr R claims that he spoke  to HSBC on more than one occasion before making the payments 
and was reassured that if he sent the money he would be protected and that he would be 
refunded if anything went wrong. However, Mr R hasnt been  able to provide specific details  
or evidence  of the calls he claims to have made  but he is of the belief that HSBC  hasnt 
provided this service with all the relevant  call recordings. 
HSBC has said the only discussion  it had with Mr R in relation to this matter prior to the 
payments being  made was on 17 January 2019 and it has provided the related call 
recording. I have  no reason  to think that HSBC  has only sent selected  calls. So whilst I 
accept what Mr R has told me is his honest recollection, I think  its possible given the time 
that has passed since the events, he might not remember exactly what  happened at the time 
 and its plausible that he may be confusing conversations  which  occurred after or 
elsewhere with those that happened prior to the payments being made. 
Ref: DRN19684253Similarly, I think if Mr R had been told that he had protection for the payments he was 
intending to make by HSBC over several  conversations, I wouldve expected him to have 
shared that with HSBC when he reported the scam on 29 January 2019.  Having  listened  to 
the conversation  the inference  is that he only had one conversation. So, I think  on balance 
its more likely than not Mr R only held one conversation with HSBC in relation to this matter, 
prior to making the payments, that being on 17 January 2019.
So, Ive gone  on to consider the content of the discussion Mr R held with HSBC  on 
17 January 2019.  Having  listened to the call carefully Im afraid I cant agree with Mr R that 
he was advised  his payments were protected and that he would  receive a full refund.  
Having spoken  to Mr R I appreciate  how strongly he feels about HSBCs actions. I 
understand he feels let down  by HSBC, and I can see why. He believes HSBC shouldve 
been proactive  in educating him and warning him about scams. It shouldve explained more  
clearly that sending a payment in the way he was intending didnt offer any form of 
protection. And rather than tell him it possibly could  recover his money it shouldve  told him 
there was a possibility  he wouldnt get his money  back. Mr R says if he had known this, he 
would never  have made these payments.
Whilst I can see with the benefit  of hindsight why Mr R might feel HSBC shouldve  warned 
him. Im not persuaded this wouldve made  a difference. I say this because  Im satisfied  Mr R 
already had an awareness  and concerns about the authenticity of the third party.  I 
understand this to be the catalyst  for his call to HSBC on 17 January 2019. Mr R was looking  
for answers  and to get some reassurance from HSBC about the recovery of his money if the 
third party turned out to be fraudulent. 
Ive taken on board and carefully considered everything Mr R has told me about how he 
interpreted what was said to him when he called  HSBC prior to making  the payments. But 
Im sorry  to say that whether HSBC  said; 
-we possibly could  recover  your money;  or 
-we possibly wont be able to recover your money
Ultimately the message  is the same, that there  is no certainty or guarantee of recovery   so 
Im unable to agree  with Mr R that HSBC has provided him with incorrect  information. And I 
cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for how Mr R interpreted the information  nor can I 
reasonably have expected it to have known this.
Overall, I think that HSBC clearly explained to Mr R the process if he became the victim of a 
scam. It did not tell him his payment would be protected nor did it offer any guarantee of a 
refund. Ultimately the decision about  whether to go ahead and make the payments was 
Mr Rs and he chose to make the payments knowing the risks involved. I can accept there  
may have  been  a misunderstanding on Mr Rs part. But I cant say that he was misled by 
HSBC. So, in the circumstances I dont think that I would be able to fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for Mr Rs losses. 
And taking  all of the circumstances  of the complaint into account,  Im satisfied that HSBC 
has acted reasonably in taking the necessary steps to notify and try to recover  Mr Rs funds 
from the beneficiary bank.
Ref: DRN19684254Im very sorry as I know this will be disappointing news for Mr R and while I understand 
Mr Rs strength of feeling about his complaint, I dont consider HSBC to have treated him 
unfairly. Ultimately, Mr Rs loss is the result  of a third parties actions and I dont think it 
would be fair to ask HSBC to make good  the loss when theres  no evidence its done  
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1968425