K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs G and Mr G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1983. 
The information available says there  was also a PPI policy  sold in 1995,  but that was a 
different policy  which  will have had a different sales process, and Im not looking at that here.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  37 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I have no evidence that the PPI was added to the account without Mrs G and Mr Gs active 
consent  nor that they were unfairly  pressurised into taking the PPI.
Its likely  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs G and Mr G, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mrs G and Mr Gs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  And it looks  to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs G and Mr Gs situation at 
the time.  Lloyds say that only Mrs G was covered by the policy.  Mrs G says Mr G was also 
covered by the policy and in fact made a claim. This question doesnt, however,  make a 
difference to my view of the case,  because I think a recommendation would have been 
suitable for either of them:
Its likely  Mrs G and Mr G were eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mrs G and/or  Mr G received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have  paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs G and Mr G would need  to fall back on any savings or other  means they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other  living  costs. This all would have put 
Ref: DRN17338322Mrs G and Mr G in a more  secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover. But its unlikely Mrs G and Mr G would 
have been affected  by any of these. Mrs G has said she became self-employed  
about three years after the PPI was sold and so needed to know  about terms that 
affected self-employed people.  But I dont think it would be reasonable to say any 
failure on information, three years earlier, could be seen as having an unfair effect. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and a recommendation would have 
been suitable. It would then be up to Mrs G and Mr G to decide whether they wanted to 
accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mrs G and Mr G took the PPI, in their circumstances at the time, given their likely sick pay 
entitlement and the importance  of paying a mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1733832