K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Canada Square Operations  Limited mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr W took out the card and PPI in March 2000 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W has said that he didnt know he had the PPI and that he would  never have agreed to 
take it out. So he thinks that any form he filled in must have been unclear to the point that it 
was possible to accidently apply for PPI without really knowing you were  doing so. So he 
thinks it might have  been something like having  to de-select a box in order to decline PPI, 
which he could easily have missed  or misunderstood.
Canada Square  has provided screen shots of the web pages  that Mr W would have seen  
during the application  process.  Under the heading  of Payment Protection, Mr W would have 
needed to select  yes or no options to either  request or decline PPI. These options have 
equal prominence  and neither had been pre-selected. I think Mr W would have understood 
from the wording and layout of the page  that the PPI was optional.
The sale was a long time ago and Mr W has no recollection of applying for the card and PPI, 
which is not at all surprising. It seems to me that he decided to take out the policy,  knowing 
that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square  didnt advise Mr W to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
his needs. But it did need to provide him with enough information to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not it was right for him.
Mr W has recently said that he had only been working for his employer for a short  time at 
that point and was still on probation. However,  Canada Square has provided an application  
report containing the information  that Mr W provided  at the point of sale.  Mr W said that he 
had been in his job since 28 February 1999.  Again I think Mr Ws recollection of events has 
probably faded and Im satisfied that the application  details are likely to be an accurate 
record of Mr Ws employment at that time.
Mr W doesnt know for sure what sick pay hed have received. Regardless  of this, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr W would 
have received full pay for. And Mr W has recently confirmed that he had no savings to fall 
back on. Mr W didnt have  any other insurance  that would have covered him for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. He had a life policy, but that only pays out upon  death, so its 
Ref: DRN17595342covering a different risk that the PPI. Overall I think that Mr W had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Canada  Square didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr W wasnt  affected  by 
any of those things.  As I think  that he had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, he 
isnt any worse off as a result of anything Canada Square may have done wrong. So there  is 
nothing that Canada Square needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1759534