K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the amount of money  Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
(Gresham) paid in settlement of a claim under  their home insurance  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs S hold a home  insurance  policy provided by Gresham and they made  a claim for
damage to their conservatory.
Gresham arranged for the conservatory to be inspected and initially said the claim wasnt
covered under the policy. A second inspection was arranged and Mr and Mrs S were  told
their conservatory couldnt be repaired as it was structurally  unsafe. At this point Mr and
Mrs S indicated to Gresham that they wanted a cash settlement in order to replace the
conservatory. Gresham said it would  pay £6,969.12  towards damage to the conservatory
roof as well as £500 compensation  because it didnt think it had handled the claim well.
However after the conservatory  was inspected for a third time, Gresham again said the claim
wasnt covered.
Following further communications between Mr and Mrs S and Gresham,  Gresham  offered
£17,000 towards the damage at their property. This was later increased to £20,000, which
Gresham said was a claim payment  for the conservatory, blinds, canopy and decking.
Mr and Mrs S said this would still leave them with a shortfall of £8,000 as a basic
conservatory was £28,000 and this was without the blinds,  canopy or decking. After  further
consideration Gresham increased  their offer again and paid Mr and Mrs S a total of £24,000
in settlement of their claim.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Gresham, seeking  payment  of an additional £4,000.
Gresham didnt increase the settlement  offer any further. It said it had agreed  to pay the cost
of Mr and Mrs Ss conservatory in full but the new conservatory was of a higher specification
than the original so it wouldnt be making up the difference. Gresham  also said it had paid Mr
and Mrs Ss claim for blinds  despite the originals not being  damaged,  and it hadnt applied
an excess to the claim as it would have  been  entitled to do under the terms and conditions  of
the policy.
Unhappy, Mrs S brought a complaint to our service  on behalf of herself and Mr S. Our
investigator recommended that Gresham should  pay Mr and Mrs S an additional  £4,020 on
top of the £24,000 already  paid, making  a total of £28,020.
Gresham didnt accept  our investigators opinion so the case  was passed  to me. I made a 
provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in January 2020.  In it, I said:
Mr and Mrs S brought  a separate complaint to us about the seller  of their home insurance
policy. I wont be commenting on the merits of that complaint here as, when making this
decision, Ive only considered Greshams actions  as the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Ss
policy.
Its not in dispute  that Gresham made  errors when dealing with this claim. I think its clear
Gresham didnt handle  things well and Im pleased to see it has acknowledged  this. I
Ref: DRN10128832understand these  events  happened during an already difficult time for Mr and Mrs S and I
have sympathy for the situation they found themselves in as a result of this claim, through no
fault of their own.
However, although the original mistakes here were Greshams, that doesnt necessarily
mean Gresham is responsible for paying  for everything Mr and Mrs S have spent in having
their conservatory replaced.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ss policy cover damage  to their property up to the
cost of repairing  or rebuilding to the same specifications as the original  building.  Their policy
doesnt cover them  to repair or rebuild their property to a better standard  than the original.
Policies like this are designed  to put the policyholder  back into the position they were in
before any damage  occurred; they arent intended to allow the policyholder  to benefit from
having an improved  standard of structure after a claim.
Mr and Mrs S said their original conservatory  was in very good  condition  and they wanted to
have it repaired but were told it needed  to be replaced, and they opted for the cheapest
quote they could find. Gresham seems to be suggesting the conservatory could have been
repaired but Im not persuaded,  based  on the evidence Ive seen,  that a repair  would have
been possible. The reports provided by Gresham indicate the roof was distorted beyond
repair and the conservatory walls needed  to be dismantled. Mr and Mrs S told us when they
obtained quotes themselves, all three contractors said the whole conservatory would need to
be taken down. Given the age of Mr and Mrs Ss original conservatory, I dont see any
reason to doubt what theyve said about this.
If Gresham hadnt made mistakes in this case,  I think  what  should  have  happened  is that it
should have paid for Mr and Mrs Ss conservatory to be rebuilt  to the same  specifications  as
the original. And Ive seen evidence that this would have cost Gresham  £13,973.90.
But because of Greshams mistakes, Mr and Mrs S paid for the conservatory to be rebuilt
themselves. So Gresham  needs to reimburse  Mr and Mrs S for what  theyve spent  but only
up to the cost of the specifications of the original conservatory, which  is what  Mr and Mrs Ss
policy covers them  for.
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs S wanted a light-weight tiled roof on the new conservatory
rather than the glass roof which  was on the original.  I understand Gresham  said it had
agreed to pay for the new conservatory in full and I think it would have been helpful if
Gresham had been clearer about  exactly what was and wasnt  covered under the policy at
an earlier point. But, based  on what  Mr and Mrs S have told us, I think  its likely theyd have
opted for an alternative to a glass roof regardless.
Mr and Mrs S now have  a new conservatory with higher specifications than the one they
originally had. The cost difference between rebuilding to the old specifications and rebuilding
to the new specifications isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Ss policy  and I dont think it would
be fair or reasonable  to ask Gresham to pay for this.
I understand Mr and Mrs S feel, out of the total payment of £24,000, they have  only been
paid £14,000 towards the conservatory.  But I dont think Gresham  has calculated  this
correctly or explained its calculations  to Mr and Mrs S in a clear  way. I think its irrelevant in
this case what it would  have cost Gresham to replace the conservatory  on a like for like
basis. What Gresham must do to put things right is to pay Mr and Mrs S what  they actually
spent on having  the conservatory  replaced on a like for like basis. And its up to Mr and
Mrs S to provide reasonable evidence in support of the amount theyre claiming for.
Ref: DRN10128833Mr and Mrs S have  provided a number  of documents  relating to the replacement
conservatory. Ive seen an undated contract  for a total of £19,000 and a variation order for
£10,350. There is another undated  contract showing a total sum of £26,700 and an invoice
for £1,320  for the removal of the original  conservatory. Both the variation order  and the
contract for £26,700  have updated  figures written over the original numbers in various
places.
Gresham had what I think were valid and reasonable questions  about the specifications of
the new conservatory and the exact costs  involved.  It contacted the conservatory supplier to
clarify these  issues but the conservatory  supplier  said Mr and Mrs S had asked for no further
information to be passed on to Gresham.
Our investigator recommended that Gresham  should  pay Mr and Mrs S a further  £4,020 on
the basis that the overall cost for the new conservatory  was the amount set out in the
undated contract of £26,700 plus £1,320  for removing the original  conservatory.
However I wasnt satisfied Id seen reasonable evidence to show  that this was the total
amount paid for the new conservatory  or what the costs associated  with the new, higher
specifications were, so I asked Mr and Mrs S for further evidence  from the conservatory
supplier. Mr and Mrs S replied with an explanation  of what  they paid together with copies of
a number of documents, which Ive reviewed. But they didnt provide the further evidence
from the conservatory supplier which Id asked  for.
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant say with any certainty  exactly how much  Mr and
Mrs S paid for the new conservatory or how much of this amount relates to rebuilding the
conservatory to its original specifications. It therefore wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask
Gresham to pay Mr and Mrs S anything more than it already has.
Greshams payment of £24,000  included £6,000  for blinds which  wouldnt fit in Mr and
Mrs Ss new conservatory. As the original blinds werent damaged, I think Gresham  is
correct in saying  the cost of replacing  these  wouldnt  have been covered  under  Mr and
Mrs Ss policy. I also note Gresham says it didnt apply an excess  to the claim,  which  it
would have been entitled to do. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel they have lost out
financially, I think the overall payment from Gresham included items that I wouldnt have
expected it to have paid for.
This means,  based  on the evidence I have,  I think the payment of £24,000 which Gresham
has made in settlement of Mr and Mrs Ss claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Gresham responded to my provisional decision saying it doesnt accept that a full rebuild of 
the conservatory was required.  Mr and Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision and 
responded with their comments, as well as additional evidence.  
my findings
Ive considered all the comments  and new evidence  which both parties  have provided in 
response to my provisional  decision, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10128834Gresham has pointed to evidence which it says supports its view that the conservatory could 
have been repaired. However some of Greshams communications with Mr and Mrs S seem  
to acknowledge  that one of Greshams contractors  said the conservatory was structurally  
unsafe and may come  down completely if the roof was removed. Gresham  appears to have 
had a quotation of £17,000 from this contractor to carry out repairs  to the conservatory - but 
its noted this would still have left issues with the door and walls. 
Given the age of Mr and Mrs Ss conservatory, and the price of the quotes Gresham 
obtained for replacing the conservatory on a like-for-like basis,  if the claim had proceeded as 
it should have  then I think its likely the conservatory  would always have been replaced  
rather than being  repaired. 
But, deciding whether the conservatory could be repaired isnt the key issue here. Mr and 
Mrs S have brought their complaint to us to determine whether we think the total of £24,000  
which Gresham has paid to them is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs S have  repeatedly referred  to being paid £14,000 for their conservatory.  This 
isnt correct. Mr and Mrs S have been paid a total settlement of £24,000  and the fairness of 
this total settlement is what  Im assessing here, taking into account what is covered by Mr 
and Mrs Ss policy and the evidence they have provided about what  they spent. 
I note what Mr and Mrs S have said about  some  of the details in the background section of 
my provisional decision. But I dont think  these  clarifications have any bearing  on the 
outcome of the complaint.  Ive addressed many of Mr and Mrs Ss other comments  already  
but Ill restate what I think are some  of the key points here. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S found  themselves in a situation of needing to replace their 
conservatory through no fault of their own. I dont think Gresham communicated with Mr and 
Mrs S in a clear way about the offers  it was making, how these offers had been calculated or 
under what  terms the offers were  being  made. But, regardless of this, Gresham  isnt 
responsible for all of Mr and Mrs Ss costs  its only responsible  for what  Mr and Mrs Ss 
policy covers them  for, and then only for the amount of money which  Mr and Mrs S can 
reasonably evidence they spent. 
The payment of £24,000 included a settlement towards the blinds. But, as the blinds werent 
damaged, I dont think the cost of replacing  them is covered under Mr and Mrs Ss policy.  
While it was up to Gresham to deduct  an excess from any settlement paid to Mr and Mrs S, 
this is still money which Mr and Mrs S have had the benefit of, over and above  what  
Gresham was obliged  to pay to them. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs S said the price of the new conservatory 
was initially going  to be £26,700 subject  to survey. However, because  of the situation they 
were in, the same supplier agreed to supply the structure for £19,000. Together with the cost 
of the ground  works (£10,350) and removal (£1,320), Mr and Mrs S now say this makes a 
total of £30,670.
Mr and Mrs S have  also provided a quotation for carrying out additional  groundworks  at a 
cost of £4,925  plus VAT, as well as confirmation from the conservatory supplier that a 
conventional glass conservatory roof would have represented a saving of £1,400  plus VAT.
I still dont think its clear  exactly how much  Mr and Mrs S paid in total for their new 
conservatory. The amount they say theyve paid has differed during their course  of their 
Ref: DRN10128835complaint with Gresham and with this service, and Gresham  had what I think were  legitimate 
concerns when it tried to speak to the conservatory supplier about how much Mr and Mrs S 
had paid. I dont  think Mr and Mrs S have provided  sufficient evidence  to show how much  
they have spent so I dont  think  it would be fair or reasonable to ask Gresham  to pay Mr and 
Mrs S anything more. 
In any event, if I were to accept that the total amount Mr and Mrs S paid was £28,000 - or 
even £30,670  - after deducting the saving for the conventional roof and taking into account  
the payments  Gresham made which I dont think it needed to, Id still think  Greshams offer 
was fair. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.  
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1012883