K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Exeter Friendly Society  Limited removed a 10% discount on his 
premium for his private  medical  insurance  policy without informing him.
background
In 1986, Mr J took out a private medical  insurance  policy with Exeter  Friendly.  He received a 
10% discount on his premium by virtue of belonging  to a particular society.
In 2000, Exeter  Friendly  switched Mr J to a new policy. When it did so, his entitlement  to the 
10% premium discount was removed.
In 2018, Mr J discovered he was no longer receiving the 10% discount.  He complained to 
Exeter Friendly.
Exeter Friendly provided a copy of a letter which it said was sent to all policyholders at the 
time of the change  to the new policy but it acknowledged this letter didnt make clear that the 
societal discount  was being removed.  It pointed out that the policy terms enabled it to 
remove discounts at any time and that Mr J had been content to pay his full premium for the 
past 18 years. Nonetheless, in view of its apparent oversight in notifying him at the time of 
the removal of the discount, it agreed as a goodwill gesture to waive his premium for two 
months, equating to compensation of £763.  
Mr J was unhappy at this. He referred  his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that, while I was satisfied the complaint was in 
jurisdiction, I considered it should  not be upheld. My findings were  as follows:
I do not have a free hand  to consider all complaints  that are referred to this service.  The 
rules governing time limits for referring complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service are 
set out in Financial  Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules.
Rule 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
been received.
unless:
Ref: DRN17464762(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP  2.8.2  R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
Mr J is complaining about Exeter Friendlys  failure  to inform him in 2000 that it was removing 
the 10% discount from his policy. This was clearly more than six years ago. I therefore have 
to consider when  Mr J became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he 
had cause for complaint.
Mr J says he became aware  in 2018 after asking Exeter Friendly  to confirm that the discount 
was still in place.  I see no reason  to dispute  this. And given this was less than three years 
ago, it would mean I could  consider his complaint unless I thought  he ought reasonably to 
have become aware more than three years earlier.
The investigator said Mr J should have become aware in 2000.  He refers to a letter which  
Exeter Friendly sent to policyholders at that time drawing attention to the revised policy  
terms and the removal  of the discount.  However, leaving aside that Mr J says he didnt 
receive that letter, Exeter Friendly  has acknowledged that the letter  was referring to a 
different discount  and didnt explain that Mr Js societal discount  was also being removed.
In view of the above, I dont agree  that Mr J ought  reasonably to have become aware in 
2000 that his 10% discount  was being removed and that he had cause for complaint. And I 
cant see any other point  at which he ought reasonably  to have realised this until 2018  when 
he received confirmation from Exeter  Friendly that the discount no longer applied.
Im therefore  satisfied that this complaint has been made within  our specified  time limit and I 
can consider it.
Ive therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, having done so, I consider this 
complaint should  not be upheld. I shall explain why.
The policy is an annual contract  between Exeter Friendly  and Mr J. Exeter Friendly  is 
allowed to vary that contract each year and to determine the cost of the premium. I have 
seen no evidence that Mr J was promised that the 10% societal discount would last for the 
lifetime of the policy. Im therefore satisfied that Exeter Friendly was entitled  to end that 
discount in 2000 so long as it did so for all policyholders who benefitted from the discount.  
This is what  Exeter Friendly says it did.
I would have expected Exeter Friendly to have informed Mr J of this action at the time. 
Exeter Friendly has been unable to show that it did so. This isnt to say it didnt inform him; it 
may be that it did so but the passage  of time has left it unable to prove this. However, let me 
assume that it failed  to do so. I must then ask myself to what  extent was Mr J disadvantaged 
by this failure.
The fact is that Mr J agreed to pay the required premium for his policy in 2000 and at every  
renewal since then.  He may have  thought  he was paying 90% of the full price. But even  if he 
had been made aware that he was in fact paying the full price,  I consider it unlikely that he 
would have acted  differently.  The knowledge that he was paying full price  wouldnt have 
affected the actual  amount of his premium  an amount he was apparently  happy  to pay for 
the cover  his policy provided.
Ref: DRN17464763If Mr J had been at all unhappy with the cost of his policy between 2000 and 2018,  I would  
have expected him to have shopped around for a more competitive policy from another  
provider. The fact that he has remained with Exeter  Friendly indicates  to me either that he 
saw no need to shop around, or that he did so but concluded that the Exeter Friendly  policy 
represented the best value to him. Either way, I consider that it made no difference  that he 
was no longer entitled to the 10% discount;  he was still happy to continue with the Exeter 
Friendly policy for the offered premium. So Exeter  Friendlys failure to inform  him the 
discount had been removed caused  him no disadvantage.
Exeter Friendly nonetheless agreed  to waive two months premiums in recognition of its 
administrative failure. This represents compensation of £763. In the circumstances, I 
consider this to be fair.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr J didnt accept my provisional decision.  While  he was happy that I had decided his 
complaint was within my jurisdiction, he disagreed  with my conclusion that he hadnt suffered 
any disadvantage in this matter. He said that hed taken out the policy  on the understanding 
that the 10% discount would continue indefinitely. He said that without being told so by 
Exeter Friendly, he had no way of knowing the discount had been removed. Because he 
believed the discount was still in place, he hadnt bothered  shopping around for another  
policy. He said that if he were to change insurer now he would lose cover for medical 
conditions which had developed since 2000. He therefore felt he had been disadvantaged by 
Exeter Friendlys failure to notify him of the removal of the discount and that the waiving of 
two months premium was inadequate compensation for this.
Exeter Friendly accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
Both parties  accepted that the complaint is within my jurisdiction. Im therefore satisfied that I 
am able to consider the complaint.
I recognise that Mr J thought the discount would continue  indefinitely  but, as explained in my 
provisional decision, Ive seen no evidence  that he was promised this would be the case.  Im 
therefore satisfied  that Exeter Friendly was entitled to remove the discount  in 2000.
Exeter Friendly has been unable to show that it informed Mr J of the discounts removal  at 
this time. However, this doesnt alter the fact that it was allowed to remove  the discount and 
that Mr J has since  been charged the correct amount for his policy.
I accept that Mr J wouldnt know what the full price  of the premium would be and therefore  
wouldnt know that the discount  had been  removed. However, he did know  each  year how 
much he was being charged  by Exeter Friendly.
The issue  is therefore  whether the knowledge that he was paying 100% of the full premium  
rather than 90% would have affected his decision to continue with the policy rather than 
move to another provider. Mr J implies that it would have  done. However,  Mr J had 
Ref: DRN17464764knowledge of the actual  amount he was paying for the policy  and I think  that would  be more 
important to his decision-making.  Given that Mr J was content to renew his policy on the 
terms offered each year from 2000  until 2018,  I dont  think it matters that he was under a 
misapprehension that this was a discounted price since it was a price he was prepared to 
pay in any case.
I recognise that Mr J would now lose cover for certain conditions if he were to change  
insurance provider.  But for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded he would have 
changed his provider at an earlier stage even  if he had known the price  he was paying  for 
his policy  no longer incorporated  a discount.
Exeter Friendly has given  Mr J the equivalent of £763 compensation for its oversight in not 
informing him of the withdrawal of the discount.  Im satisfied that this is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im satisfied  that this complaint is within  my jurisdiction but my 
final decision  is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1746476