K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account,  called  an Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
Mr G paid a monthly fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return.
After Bank of Scotlands own investigation into Mr Gs complaint, it refunded him some of the 
fees he had paid, plus interest. Mr G doesnt think the partial refund was fair, he thinks  that 
Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, with interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Gs complaint and thought that Bank of 
Scotland had treated him fairly.  The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank  of Scotland 
should give Mr G any more money back.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Gs case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr G and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mr G was a customer of Bank of Scotland before it sold him the URCA. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us information  from its records about his account history,  which I 
believe to be reliable,  and have taken to be accurate.  
The records  show that:
In March 2007, Mr G opened  a fee-free  account.
In February 2009, Bank of Scotland sold him the URCA.
In February 2011, he went  back to a fee-free account, which  he closed in September 
2011. 
Bank of Scotland has also sent us copies of some  of Mr Gs bank statement which show  that 
he stopped using the URCA for day-to-day banking during March 2010, and that the last fee 
he paid was in January  2011. 
Mr Gs complaint is in two main parts.
Firstly, he believes  that Bank of Scotland mis-sold him the URCA in 2009. Hes told us that 
he went into one of Bank of Scotlands branches  to get an overdraft and Bank  of Scotland 
told him that he could not have the overdraft unless (he) paid for it by buying  the URCA.  
Ref: DRN15461062Hes also said that Bank  of Scotland didnt tell him he could have had an alternative account 
without a fee. 
Secondly, hes not confident that Bank  of Scotland worked out the partial  refund  it gave  him 
fairly. Hes told us that it sent him a payment  of about £150, but didnt explain how it had 
arrived at that figure. Hes said that he feels like Bank of Scotland threw  money  at him and 
told him to shut up. Hes asked us to look into this to see if Bank of Scotland worked  things 
out properly. 
I have considered the two parts of Mr Gs complaint separately.
Did Bank  of Scotland mis-sell the URCA? 
Firstly, with respect to Mr Gs point that Bank of Scotland never  told him there was a fee-free 
alternative to the URCA, his account history shows that he had held such an account for 
around two years, so it seems to me that Bank  of Scotland must have told him that such  
accounts were available to him. And I havent  seen anything to make  me think  that Bank of 
Scotland intended to withdraw  Mr Gs fee-free account, or led him to believe that it was. So I 
dont think that Bank  of Scotland  denied Mr G a choice to have an alternative account 
without a monthly fee.
Turning now to Mr Gs second  point, about Bank of Scotland telling him that he had to have 
the URCA in order to get an overdraft.
I understand that at that time Bank of Scotlands policy was that the type of account a 
customer held would  not affect its decisions about arranging (or refusing) an overdraft. 
Indeed, Bank of Scotland has told us that it arranged  an overdraft for Mr G while  he had the 
fee-free account,  and that he used  it from time-to-time.  So I doubt it told him that he had to 
buy an URCA to get an overdraft, as this would have contradicted his actual experience.
However, one of the benefits of the URCA was that depending on how often and by how 
much a customer overdrew an account, it could provide cheaper overdrafts than Bank of 
Scotland usually  offered to customers with fee-free accounts. It seems highly likely that Bank 
of Scotland told Mr G about these cheaper  overdrafts, but this would not have been the 
same as telling  Mr G that he had to have the URCA to get an overdraft. And as it was true, it 
would have been a fair thing for Bank  of Scotland to say. I dont think Bank of Scotland 
misled Mr G over this.
So I think its likely that Bank of Scotland told Mr G he could have an alternative  fee-free  
account and that he could  have  an overdraft with such  an account. But in fairness to Mr G, 
Ive also looked  to see if there were any other  ways  in which Bank  of Scotland  may have 
mis-sold the URCA  to him. 
 
Bank of Scotland has told us that it sold the URCA to Mr G on an information only basis, 
without making a personal recommendation. I understand that this was its usual  practice in 
its branches is 2009. 
On our questionnaire,  Mr G told us that Bank of Scotland did recommend the account to him, 
but apart from his comments  about  the overdraft,  he hasnt given  us much more  information. 
So I think its likely that Bank of Scotland followed its usual practices with Mr G, and I have 
considered this complaint as an information only sale. This meant that Bank of Scotland 
had to tell Mr G clearly and fairly about the URCAs cost and benefits, and give him a choice 
Ref: DRN15461063to buy it or keep his fee-fee account,  but it didnt have to check if the URCA was right for his 
personal circumstances. 
When Bank of Scotland sold the URCA  to Mr G, amongst other things, its potential benefits  
included car breakdown cover, travel  insurance  and mobile phone insurance.  I cant  tell for 
sure what  Bank of Scotland said, or didnt say, to Mr G, but I think its highly likely  that it 
described these benefits  to him. After all, it was trying to sell the URCA to him and it was in 
its own best interest to tell him what he could gain from buying it. I dont know how well Bank 
of Scotland explained the terms  of the insurance  policies  to Mr G, but I havent  seen  
anything to make me doubt that Mr G could have  claimed successfully if a need had arisen.
Similarly, I think its likely that Bank of Scotland told Mr G about the monthly fees for the 
account. He seems to have known about  them from the start, and as they would appear on 
his statements, I doubt that Bank of Scotland would have tried to hide them from him during 
the discussion. 
I dont think that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA  to Mr G.
Was the partial refund Bank of Scotland gave to Mr G fair?
I have seen a letter which Bank of Scotland  wrote to Mr G in August 2018.  This letter  
explained that Bank of Scotland did not think the URCA  was appropriate for Mr G from April 
2010 onwards  and that it would compensate him from that time.  It seems to have reached 
this decision as Mr G had stopped using the account for day-to-day banking  but still had a 
large overdraft. 
As Bank of Scotland has accepted the URCA was not appropriate  for Mr G from April 2010  
onwards, I have not considered whether its decision was right or wrong from that time. I 
have simply accepted its findings. I have, however, looked to see if there were any grounds  
to show that the URCA stopped being appropriate for Mr G before April 2010. I havent  seen  
any; so I have only considered whether Bank  of Scotland worked  out the compensation from 
April 2010 onwards fairly. 
If we had upheld  a complaint that Bank of Scotland should have closed  Mr Gs URCA in April 
2010, but didnt do so and kept charging  him monthly fees until January 2011, we would 
have told it to put things right for him by: 
refunding him all the monthly fees he paid from April 2010 until January  2011 
inclusive (ten individual monthly  fees in total),  
and 
adding 8% per year simple interest  to each  of these refunds from the date Mr G paid 
the fee until it paid the refund. 
Bank of Scotland would then have  been  obliged by HMRC to deduct  income  tax from the 
interest, at the rate of 20%. 
Throughout the time in question, the monthly fee was £12.50, and Bank  of Scotlands letter 
sets out that it refunded £125.00 in fees,  added  £80.04 in interest  and deducted £16.01 in 
tax. This worked out at total net compensation of £189.03, which  I understand it has paid. 
Ref: DRN15461064This seems to be in line with the approach we would have taken, and I consider it to have 
been fair and correct.  
I understand that Bank of Scotland may not have sent the letter from which I have  quoted to 
Mr G until after it had paid him the compensation, so he didnt have its calculation at the time 
he received the money. I appreciate that this may have been frustrating for Mr G, but I dont 
think he lost out financially, or suffered significant  distress or inconvenience,  as a result. So I 
am not going  to tell Bank of Scotland to pay Mr G any compensation for this delay. 
my final decision
For the reasons I have  set out above, I am not upholding  Mr Gs complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any more money  back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1546106