K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a van he was financing through an agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers)  was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used van in November 2018. He financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the van was already 
about ten years old and had completed about 123,000 miles.
Mr B had problems with the Diesel Particulate  Filter (DPF) in December  2018.  He arranged 
repairs through a third party  garage. But when he got the van back he still had problems  with 
the DPF. The dealership repaired this for him but he subsequently complained that the repair 
had been unsuccessful and there was a warning light on the dashboard.  He said a number 
plate light had also failed  and the fog lights didnt work. Close  Brothers asked him to provide 
a diagnostic to demonstrate the DPF was still faulty  but the diagnostic  didnt  demonstrate 
that.
The dealership allowed  Mr B to return his van and they unwound the finance agreement. But 
Mr B didnt think they went far enough.  He wanted the repair,  diagnostic  and recovery  costs 
refunding but Close Brothers would not agree  to that. They said it was the dealerships  
decision to take the van back and they would not have agreed to that action as the 
diagnostic didnt provide evidence that the repair, they were entitled to complete,  had failed.
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. She 
thought Close Brothers  were entitled  to repair the van but she didnt think  there had been 
evidence that the repair had been  unsuccessful. So she didnt think  Close  Brothers needed 
to take any further  action.  And, as Mr B had now accepted the dealerships  offer to unwind 
the agreement  and to take the van back, she didnt think there was now an opportunity to 
assess the adequacy of the repairs any further. She understood that Mr B was upset about  
the agreement  he said he had with the dealership  to refund the costs  hed incurred. But 
without further  evidence of that arrangement she thought this could only be an issue  Mr B 
could resolve with the dealership.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN11798732board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the van, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr B. The van here 
was around ten years  old and had completed about  123,000 miles. So I think some  of the 
components would have been  reaching the end of their serviceable life and Mr B could 
expect some wear and tear to be present.
The relevant  legislation  allowed Close Brothers  one opportunity to fix a fault that was present 
when the van was supplied to Mr B. I dont think it would be fair to say that first repair was 
completed by the garage Mr B referred his van to who appear not to have repaired the DPF 
correctly. The supplying  dealership agreed to take the van back themselves and to affect a 
repair. I think that is the point at which  it would be reasonable  to say that the first repair  
attempt occurred. Ive not been provided  with evidence that repair  failed as the diagnostic  
didnt suggest  that. I dont  think  it would now be feasible to clarify that the repair was 
unsuccessful as the van was returned  to the dealership  some  time ago. So in those 
circumstances I dont  think  there is sufficient evidence to suggest the repair  failed and Close  
Brothers need to take any further  action.
Ive considered the other issues Mr B says were wrong with the van and which  Ive 
highlighted in the background to this complaint. I think  a van of this age and mileage would  
be showing  signs of wear  and tear and Im persuaded, on the evidence  provided, that the 
other issues i.e. the fog lights, are most likely to be examples of this wear and tear and that it 
would not be fair to hold Close Brothers accountable for them either.
I dont therefore  think Close  Brothers need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179873