K822xcomplaint
Mrs E complains about information Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) recorded on her credit  
file which  impacted her ability to obtain  credit and financial  products. 
background
In 2016 Barclays  made  the decision to close Mrs Es accounts  in line with their Terms and 
Conditions. They then applied  a marker on the Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance  System
(CIFAS) against Mrs E. 
Mrs E said shes  made many applications  to banks which  were  declined over the past three 
years. For example,  Mrs E made an application  to one lender which  was initially  accepted 
and then declined  after fraud and credit  checks were completed. Mrs E queried this with the 
lender and they told her to contact CIFAS.
Mrs E received information from CIFAS  which showed the marker applied by Barclays.  She 
complained to Barclays who investigated the matter. They  concluded that the decision to 
close her accounts was correct but the CIFAS marker had been applied incorrectly.  Barclays 
apologised for their error, removed the marker  and offered  £450  as compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience she had suffered.
Mrs E didnt believe the compensation was sufficient. She said shed been barred from 
obtaining credit  for three years and her credit file had been significantly impacted.  She felt 
Barclays had been negligent in applying the marker. She believed they should have 
investigated the reasons behind her account  closure  in greater detail  before  applying the 
CIFAS marker.
One of our investigators  considered what Mrs E had said.  He thought there was no evidence 
of any direct financial losses and the compensation offered  by Barclays  was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs E didnt accept our investigators assessment, and asked that an ombudsman  review 
things. Shes  said a minimum of £1,200 would be more appropriate compensation for the 
impact of Barclays error. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this is likely to come  as a 
disappointment to Mrs E but having  considered this matter carefully,  Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as our investigator.
Barclays accepts they shouldnt have applied the marker so Id expect  it to take appropriate 
steps to put things right. I can see Barclays have  apologised, arranged for the incorrect 
information it recorded to be removed and offered  compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience she experienced. The compensation is also reflective of the length of time it 
took Barclays to investigate Mrs Es complaint.
I understand Mrs E doesnt think the compensation  offered is sufficient. I appreciate Mrs E 
has been through a distressing experience.  And I think its understandable shes frustrated 
and disappointed with not being able to access credit or financial products for three years.  
Ref: DRN14928982Mrs E has said she was unable to open any UK bank accounts  despite making numerous 
applications. Mrs E has also said her business has been impacted by the decision and shes  
had to turn business away as she hasnt got a business account.
In order for me to consider increasing the compensation offered by Barclays,  Id need to see 
evidence of the impact  the error  has had on Mrs E. Weve given Mrs E the opportunity to 
provide any further  evidence  to back up what shes said.  Mrs E has provided us with a copy 
of her credit file showing a number  of rejected applications for credit over the last twelve  
months.
Taking into account the evidence Ive seen, I think the £450 offered by Barclays  is 
reasonable. The marker has clearly impacted her ability to get credit,  as shown  by several 
rejected applications for credit cards  and current accounts. However, Im not persuaded 
shes been unable  to access any banking facilities at all. I havent  seen  any evidence of Mrs 
E being rejected for a basic bank account  or that shes had to turn business away. I 
therefore cant fairly ask Barclays to pay Mrs E additional compensation  or do anything  
further in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should settle this complaint as they have 
already proposed to do, by paying  Mrs E £450  compensation  for the impact  of their error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1492898