K820x#14Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that the hire purchase agreement he entered into with Secure Trust Bank 
Plc, trading as Moneyway, contained  add-ons  that he said inflated  the cost of the credit.  He 
also complained  that commission  was paid to a broker and the interest  rate was 
manipulated.
Background
In June 2014 Mr M took out a hire purchase  agreement for the purchase of a used car. He 
said the dealer  who supplied  the car added on other  items which he said inflated the overall  
cost of the credit and the total amount repayable.  He said he thought the credit was only for 
the purchase price  of the car.
The total amount  of credit provided  was £7,497,  and the total amount repayable  was 
£13,565. The agreement  was for 60 months,  with a first instalment of £220,  followed by 59 
payments of £220,  and a final payment of £325.
The car sales invoice  showed the price of the car was £6,549. The invoice also showed that 
the sale included  GAP insurance  - £349,  Paint Protection - £199, and a 12 month warranty - 
£399@ a total of £7,497.
He says the broker who arranged the finance was paid an acceptance fee and commission.  
He says the interest rate he was charged was manipulated.
Moneyway didnt uphold his complaint. They said the invoice provided by the supplying car 
dealer detailed the cash price of the vehicle, and the requested  extras which  were  added to 
the agreement. They  added that they were  not involved in the sale of these items and had 
no information about these products.
They also said a fee had been paid to the finance broker but this had no impact on the costs 
set out in the hire purchase agreement.
Mr M also said that he was confused about the duration of the agreement. He said the Hire 
Purchase  Agreement lasted for longer than the 60 months hed been told. Moneyway said 
the agreement  stated a minimum duration  of agreement 60 months . They said he agreed 
to pay a first instalment  of £220.66,  followed  by 59 monthly instalments of £220.66, and a 
final monthly instalment  of £325.66  (which included  a Document Fee of £95.00).
Mr M also complained that it was irresponsible for Moneyway  to have granted  him the 
lending. He said he was dependent  on three  separate  payday  loan firms,  along with other 
credit commitments.  He said this would have been obvious on his credit  file. He said he was 
told by Moneyway that he wasnt  eligible  for a lower  interest rate because of his 
creditworthiness.
Moneyway said they had checked whether or not the lending  was affordable. Theyd  looked  
at his income and would have conducted a credit  check. They said they didnt hold the 
records due to the time that had passed.  They said theyd  looked at the information that was 
detailed on his application and considered how hed met his various  credit  repayments 
together with the level of credit that he had. They said that the credit  reference agency they 
used at the time he applied for the credit wouldnt have shown any payday loans. They  said 
it would  have shown  up any defaults, and suggested  that because  they granted  the credit 
Ref: DRN10196582that no defaults would have been  present. They said that the lending  policy  at the time was 
that the hire purchase payments not  be more  than 25% of  a customers  net monthly 
income. In Mr Ms case his payments represented  about  13.2% of his net income so he was 
well under that limit.
He also said he was told not to make  any applications for credit.  He feels if hed done so he 
could have saved  money.
In March 2021 our investigator issued her view:
She felt the checks werent proportionate because  of the amount of credit, the total 
amount repayable and the monthly payment. She felt Moneyway shouldve  asked Mr 
M about  his living expenses and financial commitments.
She considered  the detailed living expenses provided by Mr M. She said this showed 
a disposable income after expenses of more than £70 above  the monthly payment. 
So she didnt think Moneyway had done  anything wrong when approving  the 
agreement.
The commission fee paid to the broker had no impact on the interest rate or loan 
amount, and was set at a pre-agreed rate.
The other fees were  clearly set out on the agreement.
She didnt think the credit broker had forced  Mr M not to search for other  credit  
options. She felt she had only told him that further  credit  searches may jeopardise 
the approval, and as this is something we know can happen, it was reasonable for 
them to say that.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He says his future need for 
payday loans  demonstrated this loan was unaffordable.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain  
why.
Additional items on credit  agreement
Mr M says he thought the credit agreement was only for the purchase of the car. He said 
they added  the extra products to the credit agreement to increase costs. The sale took place 
in June 2014 so we dont  have evidence of any conversations that took place at the time 
between Mr M and the supplying car dealer. Mr M says he was aware he was purchasing 
these items  but feels Moneyway shouldve explained to him the impact of having these 
included in the borrowing. Ive been provided  with copies of the sales  invoice, and the 
consumer credit agreement. The consumer credit  agreement shows both the cash price of 
the vehicle and the amount of credit as £7,497. The sales invoice shows the vehicle price as 
£6,995 and lists the additional items, and the cost of each,  before  giving  a total price of 
£7,497. Hes signed the credit agreement on the day of the sale so Im satisfied that this 
information was presented  to him, and he had the opportunity  to question why there  was a 
difference between  the cash price on the agreement, and the price of the car on the sales 
invoice.
Ref: DRN10196583Im satisfied the information  was presented to him at the time,  and I dont agree that 
Moneyway shouldve done more  to explain again the information that was already presented 
to him in line with requirements at the time.
Interest rate manipulated
Mr M said Moneyway paid a commission fee to the finance broker.  He suggested that this 
meant the broker was able to charge a higher interest rate to boost their commission.
In March 2019, the FCA, the industry regulator,  published the findings of its review of the 
motor finance  sector. The report highlighted the FCAs concerns about potential  conflict  of 
interest arising from commission arrangements between lenders and supplying dealerships. 
They were  concerned that the commission arrangements in place could provide incentives  
for dealers to increase  the rate of interest on agreements.
The report  explained  the types  of commission arrangement where this risk was most likely. It 
said this risk wasnt apparent in flat fee commission arrangements  the type of arrangement  
that Moneyway  told me applied in this case.  They said theyd paid the broker a flat fee of 
£200 for arranging  the finance. They said the fee was pre-agreed  and wasnt  connected to 
the amount of credit, or the rate charged.
So Im satisfied the rate wasnt manipulated by the dealer or the broker,  nor has Mr M 
suffered any detriment because of the relationship between the broker and the lender.
Irresponsible and unaffordable lending
Mr M said he shouldnt have been granted the credit as he was reliant on payday loans. The 
rules that were in place  at the time he entered into the agreement  required Moneyway to 
undertake reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy themselves that he would be able 
to repay  the agreement  in a sustainable way. Our investigator felt that Moneyway shouldve 
asked Mr M about his living expenses and other financial commitments because of the 
amount of credit, the total amount repayable, and the monthly  repayment.
She then considered whether or not they wouldve found the agreement to be affordable if 
they had conducted sufficient checks. Its this part of the check that Ill focus on, because 
this is where Mr M thinks Moneyway shouldve been aware of his financial position  and 
known he couldnt  afford the repayments  without further borrowing.
He said he was in debt to a number  of payday  lenders,  and this is why they shouldnt have 
approved the hire purchase agreement. Before I address  that issue,  I agree with our 
investigators assessment  that if Moneyway had carried out further checks they wouldve 
found the monthly repayments were affordable. Mr M supplied  our investigator with a 
detailed breakdown of all his living expenses and outgoings,  and his income.  This showed 
that he had a disposable income of almost  £300, enough to cover the monthly payments of 
£220.
But Mr M said this ignored the point  that he was reliant on payday loans. I agree with our 
investigator  it was reasonable for her to assess the information that wouldve been 
available to Moneyway at the time. And the information provided by Mr M showed that he 
had one payday loan active at the time. All other payday loans had been settled. I accept 
that any credit check carried out at the time may not have shown payday  loans   as many  
payday lenders  didnt  share data with credit reference agencies at that time. And I havent 
Ref: DRN10196584seen any evidence to show  that the payday  loans were present on the credit file, and visible  
to Moneyway.
So it wouldve  been reasonable for Moneyway to rely on information Mr M wouldve provided 
at the time. And as this shows only one payday loan, and sufficient disposable  income to 
cover the monthly  payments, I think it would  have entered into this agreement  with Mr M.
I dont think that Moneyway acted unfairly when  entering into this hire purchase agreement  
with Mr M.
They couldnt predict his future reliability  on payday loans. And I cant see any evidence  that 
shows that it was this agreement that led to what Mr M describes as his reliance on payday 
loans.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for the credit broker to warn  Mr M of the risk of carrying out 
further credit  applications or searches. We know that credit  applications  can impact on 
lenders decisions to approve applications,  and I think it was fair of them  to tell Mr M of the 
risk of doing  this. I cant say they did this to stop him shopping  around.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr M. Hes provided a lot of information,  and I 
can see that hes taken  significant steps to improve his financial status, including using the 
services of a debt help organisation. I know he thinks that the lender knew  he was a higher 
risk borrower because they charged him a higher rate, but that in itself doesnt  mean  the 
lending was unaffordable .
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019658