K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva  Health UK Limited  declined a claim she made  on her private 
medical insurance policy for lower back pain. Mrs P says the lower  back  pain she 
experienced before she took this policy out was unrelated to her current  pain and that a 
letter from her GP supports this. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 November  2018,  an extract of which 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  not be upheld, and I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision. 
Aviva did not respond with anything further.  Mrs P expressed her disappointment with my 
provisional decision but, didnt provide anything else for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I appreciate that this will come as further  
disappointment for Mrs P but, in the absence of any new arguments, Ive reached  the same  
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for the same  reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.  
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14629992Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva Health UK Limited  declined a claim she made  on her private  
medical insurance policy for lower back pain. Mrs P says the lower back pain she experienced 
before she took this policy  out was unrelated to her current pain and that a letter  from her GP 
supports this.
background
In January 2017, Mrs P took out a private  medical  insurance policy with Aviva.  Later that year,  she 
was diagnosed with facet joint arthrosis in her lower back. Mrs P made a claim on her policy to 
receive treatment  for the lower back pain she was experiencing, but Aviva  declined it.
Aviva explained that Mrs P had moratorium underwriting on her policy. It said this meant Mrs P 
wasnt covered for any illness or injury shed had symptoms of, treatment for, or sought medical 
advice about in the five years before shed taken the policy out. Aviva said the evidence it had seen 
showed shed sought medical advice  for lower back pain in 2015,  a symptom of her current 
condition, and because of this cover was not available.
Our investigator looked into what  had happened. She initially thought  the medical evidence that 
Aviva had referred to showed  Mrs P did have symptoms of her current  condition in
2015. Because of this, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to have declined the claim. 
But Mrs P then provided a letter from her GP to support her position  that her previous pain was 
unrelated to her current pain.
Aviva said this letter didnt change things  because it was the symptom  they were  looking at and 
the medical evidence showed Mrs P had a history of lower back  pain. But our investigator felt the 
letter was enough  to show the previous pain was unrelated, and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. The complaint  has now been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The moratorium  clause  in Mrs Ps policy  says:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing  condition, or any related  condition, if you had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition in the five years  before  you joined  the policy. However, 
we will cover a pre-existing  condition if you do not have:
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
Ref: DRN14629993that condition during a continuous two year period  after you join the policy.  The 
policy defines  pre-existing as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, diagnostic  tests,  advice or treatment, or
you have experienced  symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed  or not before  you joined the policy.
With this in mind, the issue I need to determine is whether Mrs Ps previous lower back  pain was 
related to her current condition  or not.
The letter Mrs P provided from her GP is dated June 2018 and says it was based on a review of 
her notes. Mrs Ps patient record shows she had 17 appointments, spanning May 2012 to 
August 2017,  four of which were with GP that wrote  this letter. One was in May 2012 to discuss 
Mrs Ps elbow, one in April 2014 to discuss  pain in her lower  leg and
lower back,  one in August  2016 to discuss the results of her pre-op blood  tests and whether 
planned surgery  was likely to go ahead, and one in November 2016 to discuss her left hip pain.
In her letter,  the GP says that after reviewing Mrs Ps notes she feels Mrs Ps previous  pain was 
related to the osteoarthritis in her hips. She says Mrs P had one hip replaced in September  2016 
and the other  in February 2017, and didnt have any pain following this until August 2017  when she 
complained further of lower  back pain.
The notes on Mrs Ps patient  record which make reference to her lower back  pain are:
mild lower back pain in April 2014
lower back pain as an intermittent problem  over the past several years and 
chiropractor visits  every  6 weeks to control this recorded in September  2015
lower back pain as present for the past 8 days in October 2015
occasional lower back  pain in December  2015
right lower back pain onset in May 2017
lower back pain for several months, at least since February but before that too, 
reported in August 2017
In addition,  I have seen  a physiotherapy letter dated December 2014 which  details the reason for 
Mrs Ps referral  as lower back pain and right leg pain, and an Orthopaedic  Triage Service Referral 
form dated  August 2017. This referral also details Mrs Ps symptoms as lower  back  pain for several 
months  at least since February 2017, but she thinks before that too.
So its clear from the evidence available that Mrs P experienced lower back pain in the five years  
before she took out her private medical  insurance  policy. Although her GP has written a letter to 
say Mrs P was pain free following her hip replacements, the wider evidence  available does not 
support this.
In my view, information recorded at the time of an event  so here, the appointment notes  in May 
and August 2017 and the subsequent referral in August 2017  generally carries more weight  than 
an opinion at a later date,  based on a retrospective review of notes. So, after careful consideration, 
Im unable to accept  that the GPs  letter  is, in isolation, enough to establish that Mrs Ps previous 
pain was unrelated to her current pain.
Ref: DRN14629994There is another letter  within the available medical evidence, dated February  2018. It appears to 
follow Mrs Ps referral to the Orthopaedic Triage Service in August 2017  for treatment of her lower 
back pain  and is from an Extended Scope Practitioner (ESP). In his letter,  the ESP says Mrs Ps 
back pain had worsened over several  months,  and was unrelated  to her hip operations. But I dont 
think this is enough to establish that Mrs Ps earlier pain was unrelated to her current  condition 
either, because all it talks about is Mrs Ps current pain.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im currently of the opinion that the available medical evidence 
shows Mrs P did suffer from lower back pain in the five years before she took out her policy. And 
Ive not seen  enough to establish this pain was not related to her current condition.
I appreciate this is a difficult time for Mrs P, and I understand that my findings  are likely to come 
as a disappointment to her. But on balance,  I dont currently consider Aviva acted unreasonably 
in declining her claim. So Im not planning  to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
If either Mrs P or Aviva have anything further to add, they should do so by
11 December 2018. I will then reconsider  the complaint  before reaching my final decision.
Ref: DRN1462999