K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold  him a legal expenses 
insurance policy. He wants  matters put right.
background
In 2012, Mr W took out a motorcycle insurance  policy with Hastings. He opted to take out the 
extra legal expenses  insurance policy, which provided cover  for uninsured  losses and motor 
prosecution defence. This insurance  was insured with another company, but sold through 
Hastings. Mr W renewed  his policy  on broadly the same terms each year afterwards.
In 2018, Mr W was involved  in an accident  and charged with a driving offence. He made  a 
claim on his legal expenses insurance  to cover  his legal costs  of defending the action being 
pursued against him. This claim was initially  accepted and he was given access to a law firm 
and barrister to represent him. But cover was later withdrawn as the insurers said the policy 
didnt provide cover if Mr W was entitled to legal aid.
Mr W said that he wasnt made aware of the policy condition when he took out the cover.  He 
said that he was told hed be covered for motor  prosecution defence but the limitations were 
only available in the small print. He felt that the policy  was mis-sold to him by Hastings who 
shouldve done  more to highlight the full terms and conditions of the policy.  
Mr W complained  to Hastings. It said that in 2016 when he renewed  Mr W told it that he was 
happy with the explanation of the legal expenses insurance and was given the information 
he needed to understand it. It denied that it mis-sold  the insurance.
Mr W complained  to us and the investigator  didnt uphold the complaint.  He said Mr W took 
the policy out online and that the online process gave him access  to the full policy 
documentation which  set out what the policy  did and didnt cover. As this would be 
considered a non-advised sale, and Hastings didnt  provide any advice or guidance on the 
policy sale, it was for Mr W to ensure  he had read all the policy information to ensure  it was 
suitable for his needs. The investigator was satisfied that Hastings had done enough to 
ensure Mr W had access to the information at both the sale of the policy  and at each 
renewal.
Mr W didnt agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only dealing  with the mis-selling 
complaint as there was a separate complaint about  the handling of Mr Ws claim and the 
decision to withdraw  cover by the insurer.
Mr W took out the policy online and renewed it himself each year. He wasnt  advised by 
Hastings about  the suitability of the legal expenses  insurance policy to meet his needs;  it 
was his choice  to take out the policy. This means  that I can only find that the policy has been  
mis-sold if I think  the information  provided didnt properly set out the terms and conditions  of 
the policy, particularly  the point about there  being no cover if legal aid or other funding  is 
available.
Ref: DRN13721812The terms and conditions  of the policy do say that theres no cover  if legal aid or other 
fundings available. The wording of the policy was made available to Mr W when taking it 
out. And the screenshots available to me show that the full terms and conditions were  
available if Mr W clicked on the link. It was for Mr W to read this information. Hastings did 
provide the information to enable Mr W to decide if the policy met his needs. I note that the 
exclusion is set out clearly under the heading What is not insured, so it wasnt hidden.
Mr W says that its unfair and unreasonable to expect members of the public to know  that 
this term is likely to apply  if the case is sent to the Crown Court, where  the legal aid rules are 
different to magistrate cases. He also says that theres no mention of legal aid thresholds 
and eligibility, and without  this information, members of the public dont know  if they might  be 
affected. But it isnt reasonable to expect insurers to provide  such  detailed information.  Legal 
aid rules change whenever the government decides to make  changes,  and apply at the time 
of any prosecution, not when insurance  is taken  out - the information  could easily  be out of 
date if provided. Insurers arent  there to give legal advice about funding options   its up to 
the Legal Aid Agency to make decision about  legal aid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
30 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1372181