K822xcomplaint
Mr I has complained NewDay  Limited, trading as Aqua,  is holding  him liable for a credit card 
and the spending on it. He didnt  apply for this card in 2015.
background 
After being rejected for a loan, Mr I checked his credit record.  He noticed a default on his 
record for a credit card with Aqua. As hed never  taken out this card,  he complained to 
NewDay.
He could see this card had been  taken out in May 2015 and was linked to an address he 
moved out of around that time. Thered then been £2,970 worth of spend  which  was no 
longer being repaid and had been  defaulted.  NewDay didnt think thered been  anything 
wrong with their account opening procedures so didnt agree the debt wasnt his.
Mr I brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator was able to verify  
Mr I no longer lived at the address where  the account was opened. He had changed his 
address with his bank  from the time he said hed moved out to his current address. From the 
account-opening detail  provided by NewDay he could see it wasnt  Mr Is email address ever 
used either.  In fact the email address more than likely belonged to someone  related to Mr Is 
previous landlord.  The address for the credit  card had been  changed  in 2016 to an address 
Mr I had no link with.
Our investigator told NewDay the evidence showed Mr I had never applied  for this card so 
they had to stop pursuing him for a debt that wasnt his, and amend his credit record to show  
hed never  taken out this card. He also asked NewDay to pay Mr I £200 compensation.
NewDay accepted  this outcome. After consideration Mr I felt he should  be paid more 
compensation. Hed first raised this theft of his identity to NewDay  in early 2017,  hed been  
refused loans and a default was registered incorrectly on his credit record.
Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive written  to both NewDay  and Mr I to 
confirm Ive reached a different conclusion about what compensation should be paid. Ill 
explain my thinking.
Firstly I should confirm  that I agree with the outcome our investigator reached on whether 
Mr I applied for the credit card. All the application  data suggests  this wasnt taken  out by 
Mr I. In fact it looks as if someone whod known  Mr I had used his name and some details to 
take out a credit card. Initial payments  had been  made towards the debt but then they failed 
to keep up with this. A debt accrued which was then defaulted. Im satisfied Mr I didnt apply 
for this credit  card nor used it for the spending that took place.
Incorrect late payment  markers have been  showing on Mr Is credit record since  August 
2016. The default was put onto his record in February 2017.
Ref: DRN15045912It was around this time that Mr I tried to get a loan and was unsuccessful. He raised his 
concerns about  this credit card with NewDay  straightaway. I cant see they ever fully 
investigated what had happened.   
In August  2017  and August 2018 Mr I did take out loans. But theres no doubt from the 
evidence Ive seen,  Mr I paid a much higher level of interest than hed have been able to do 
if hed not had a default on his record. I dont think theres any dispute that this was caused 
by the default  that had been placed  incorrectly.
I was surprised NewDay said it was waiting to amend Mr Is credit record until theyd 
received an ombudsmans final decision. Theyd  admitted this information had been 
incorrectly put on his record  so Id have thought  for data protection  reasons alone  theyd  
be trying  to get this sorted as quickly as possible.  Ive since suggested they do this but 
received no response  from them.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Ive told both Mr I and NewDay  that I would be increasing 
the compensation to £1,000 in total. Thats £750  for the errors and impact on his credit 
record resulting in Mr I having to pay more for his loans.  Ive also said £250 should  be paid 
for NewDay not dealing with his fraud-related complaint properly.
Neither party responded to me. Having  considered  everything Im satisfied £1,000 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  NewDay  Limited to:
Stop pursuing  Mr I for this credit  card debt when  he didnt apply for or use the card;
Remove any data about  this credit card from Mr Is credit record; and
Pay Mr I £1,000 for the impact caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1504591