K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC introduced changes to daily overdraft fees without 
making him aware. He says the changes caused him financial difficulty and Lloyds didnt do 
enough to help him. Mr H also complains  that after the new charges were introduced Lloyds 
charged him both the new daily charge and the old monthly account fee.  
background
Mr H has had an overdraft with Lloyds.  He has a £3,000 limit and has used a substantial part 
of this for some time. In November 2017 Lloyds changed the way it charged for current  
account overdrafts.  It now charges 1p a day for every £7 borrowed each day. This replaced 
the interest,  monthly  fees and returned item fees for unplanned overdrafts which used to be 
charged all in one at the end of each month.  This resulted in Mr H paying  much more for his 
overdraft than he had before.
Mr H said he did not receive  a letter from Lloyds outlining its new overdraft charges. He said 
this meant  he had no opportunity to pay off, or transfer his overdraft to avoid paying 
significant fees. Mr H says when he contacted Lloyds on 4 December 2017, and spoke to an 
advisor, he was told Lloyds customer service unit (CSU) could offer him a reduced tariff at a 
rate that was lower than the new overdraft charges. 
On 7 December  2017, Mr H contacted Lloyds CSU. But it told him he needed to complete an 
income and expenditure assessment before any options  could be offered to him. Mr H 
wasnt happy with this response. He says Lloyds gave  him misleading information about 
reducing the charges when he first contacted them  by telling him it would reduce the tariff. 
And that Lloyds didnt  make it clear to him hed have  to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment before anything could be considered. He wants  Lloyds to compensate  him for 
the trouble and upset this caused.  
Mr H complained to Lloyds. He told Lloyds that its new overdraft  fees were causing  him 
financial hardship. Lloyds  said it wouldnt revert to their older charging  system, but if he was 
experiencing financial difficulty he could contact another team at Lloyds to see if they could 
help. This would involve Mr H completing  an income and expenditure assessment. Mr H 
didnt pursue this option. He subsequently returned  his account to credit  in January 2018 
and moved to another bank in February  2018.
In November and December 2017,  in addition to the daily fee, Mr H was charged  account 
interest and usage  fees. Hes asked us to consider this as part of his complaint.
Lloyds system notes show it wrote to Mr H on 13 August 2017 to notify him about  the 
changes, it also shows it sent other letters to Mr Hs online mailbox  regarding  bank fees.  
These mention  the changes to the fee structure  and fee capping.
Lloyds said its member  of staff did not say that the bank would be able to put Mr H onto a 
reduced overdraft tariff. However, Lloyds acknowledged poor communications  and repaid 
Mr H the interest and fees it charged him in November 2017.  It also paid Mr H £50 
compensation and £18 to cover the cost of calls he made to Lloyds trying to sort things out. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint  to our service, saying he wants Lloyds to 
offer a reasonable amount of compensation for its poor service.
Ref: DRN16960942The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  in part. He said it was unclear 
from listening to the call recordings  as to whether any agreement was made for a reduced 
overdraft tariff, but he felt Mr H may have been  advised about this. So he recommended 
Lloyds pay Mr H a further £100 compensation. Lloyds agreed.  Mr H disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked closely  at Lloyds handling of 
Mr Hs account and its communications with him, to see if it has acted in accordance with the 
terms of the account  and treated him fairly.
Its important first to clarify Im not making  a general finding on whether the term Lloyds 
relied on is or isnt fair. A finding like this would impact on people who dont have  complaints 
with us, some of whom  may be happy  with what has happened.  What I need to decide is 
whether Lloyds have  treated Mr H fairly  and reasonably. And this does mean considering the 
fairness of the term in so far as it affects him personally, taking into account the law.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Lloyds  to impose new charges onto Mr Hs overdraft. 
The bank says its terms allow it to change the interest rate on overdrafts  and other charges 
connected with overdrafts. And I can see that those terms,  on the face of it, do appear to 
give it a very wide discretion to do that. They also say that the bank will give customers  
notice of any changes, and that they are free to close  their account if they dont want to 
accept those changes. Customers (such  as Mr H) dont however have the option of 
continuing under  the old terms. 
That, however,  doesnt  fully answer the question whether Lloyds could change the terms  
and indeed the structure of its charges  in the way it did. The law places some  restrictions  
on the terms that banks  and other  businesses can rely on when dealing with consumers 
such as Mr H. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a term that is unfair wont be 
binding on a consumer.  And it gives examples of terms that are likely to be unfair. 
An example  it gives of a term thats  likely  to be unfair, is one that allows  a business to 
change its terms unilaterally  without giving a valid reason  in the contract.  But it also provides  
several exclusions. One of these is a term allowing a change in charges, providing the 
consumer is told about it at the earliest  opportunity, and can exit the contract.  And another is 
a term in a contract  - such as a current account  - where the consumer must be told of the 
change and can exit the contract.
Ive already said that Lloyds is entitled, under the terms  and conditions of the account, to 
change the way it charges for overdrafts.  The terms also set out that Lloyds  must  give at 
least 30 days notice of the change. Lloyds records show it wrote to Mr H on 
13 August 2017,  to let him know about  the changes, this was more than the usual notice.  Mr 
H says he never received  this letter. Because we can never be certain a letter has been  
received our service is guided by proof of dispatch. From Lloyds records  I can see that it 
made reasonable attempts to make Mr H aware  of the new overdraft charges. Based on the 
information I have,  Im satisfied it did done  enough  to highlight the changes. Im sorry for
Mr H that he didnt see this letter. But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this.
Ref: DRN16960943The terms of Mr Hs account allowed Mr H to exit his contract  at any time. But whether he 
could exit his contract  before the change is also a practical consideration. Its clear from 
looking at Mr Hs account statements he made considerable use of his overdraft for some 
time. So I can understand why no longer being  able to benefit from his overdraft as hed 
done in the past wouldve  been concerning for him. The change wasnt positive for him as it 
made his overdraft much more expensive. 
But I dont think this meant Mr H had no choice but to continue with his Lloyds account. For 
example, I havent  seen  he couldnt find a reasonable way to pay back what he owed in 
order to more easily exit his contract. In fact Mr H was able to obtain  a balance transfer and 
exit the contract  in February 2018. So he has shown that he was able to dissolve the 
contract  in the sense that, legally  at least, he was able to close  his account.
But even if I thought Mr H had no practical choice  but to accept a change that made him 
worse off, Id be unlikely to direct  Lloyds to go back to their older charging structure. I think 
this wouldnt be a pragmatic or appropriate solution,  given his overdraft could  be revoked at 
any time and the previous charging  structure  had been revoked.
Its not for this service to say generally  whether a term is or isnt unfair  within the meaning of 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015. But, having  regard to what  that Act says about  unfair  terms 
and Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think the changes that Lloyds made  were  unfair  for him.     
 
should Lloyds  have done more to help?
Mr H says he experienced financial problems because of the change Lloyds made, which  Im 
sorry to hear about. Overall, its reasonable to suggest the cost of Mr Hs overdraft wouldve 
had a substantial  impact on his financial situation. And Ive no doubt this caused  him a fair 
amount of stress and worry.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint, is that he says Lloyds told him during a phone  call on 
4 December 2017, that it would put him on a reduced overdraft tariff to help him. And that 
Lloyds didnt explain to him hed need  to complete and income and expenditure assessment  
from the outset  before a reduced  tariff could  be considered. He says when  he tried to 
follow up with Lloyds  about the reduced  tariff he was told that this wasnt  possible. So he 
says Lloyds gave  him misleading information.
Lloyds has provided  us with recordings of the calls it had with Mr H. Ive listened to the 
recordings. And I do not share Mr Hs recollections on how these conversations  went. During 
the first call Mr H spoke  to a female  advisor  regarding the daily usage and interest fees 
which hed been  recently charged. The advisor had trouble accessing information  and told 
Mr H she would put him through to a colleague. Unfortunately,  the call cut out before Mr H 
was able to speak to anyone else. 
Mr H called back and on this occasion spoke to a male advisor. During  the call the advisor 
told Mr H he would refund  the charges, costs for calls hed made trying to sort things  out and 
make a compensation payment for providing him incorrect information about how fees and 
interest would  be applied to his account  in November and December 2017. At no point  in 
either of these two conversations did Lloyds specifically tell Mr H it would put him on a 
reduced overdraft tariff.
At the end of the second call Mr H told the advisor he was supposed to speak to a specialist  
team to talk about a reduced overdraft tariff. And he asked the advisor for the CSU phone 
Ref: DRN16960944number. At the conclusion  of the call the advisor gave Mr H the Freephone number for him 
to contact the CSU. The advisor told Mr H that the CSU would go through an income  and 
expenditure assessment with him and would look at the reduced tariff.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of its case report notes. I can see that the notes refer to the two 
calls Lloyds had with Mr H on 4 December  2018, which Ive detailed. The notes state  the 
system crashed and Mr H was put through to another advisor. So Im satisfied that the notes  
are referring to the two calls Ive heard. 
The notes also refer to a chain of calls and in particular  a call at 9.32am. The notes state that 
during this call the advisor told Mr H they are in a position to look at a reduced tariff possibly 
for you and went onto to tell Mr H they may be able to look at something different for you. 
Ive no reason to doubt that this isnt an accurate reflection of the conversation  which took 
place between Lloyds  and Mr H. I havent been provided with a recording of this call. But 
based on the case notes and content of the two calls Ive already mentioned, Im satisfied  at 
the time of the second call on 4 December  2017,  Mr H had already had a conversation with 
Lloyds about reducing his overdraft tariff.   
I understand that Lloyds provided Mr H with a recording of a call he had on 4 December 
2017. Mr H says that hes listened to this recording and says Lloyds told him it would reduce 
his tariff. Unfortunately,  Mr H no longer has this recording.  
Ive no doubt Mr H has provided his best and honest recollections of his conversations  with 
Lloyds. But having  listened to all the call recordings that Ive been provided, I simply dont 
have enough evidence to conclude Lloyds explicitly told Mr H it would lower  his overdraft 
tariff. On balance, having listened to all the recordings and looked at the case  notes,  I think  
Lloyds led Mr H to believe this was a possibility once an income and expenditure 
assessment had been completed with him. This is quite different to being told this would 
definitely happen. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds  told Mr H he needed to complete an income  and expenditure 
assessment so that it could look at options to assist him. And that it did so on more than one 
occasion. I think this shows  it was trying to better  understand what  was going  on so it could 
offer Mr H a tailored  level of support. I understand Mr H didnt end up completing  an 
assessment and instead chose to move his account  elsewhere. But Im satisfied that Lloyds 
offered to explore potential solutions with Mr H and did enough  to try and help Mr H.
I can see that Mr H made a number of calls to Lloyds to try and get things clarified  and to 
find out what he needed to do to explore the possibility of a reduced tariff. I agree with the 
investigator that Lloyds  couldve been clearer from the outset about  exactly what  Mr H had to 
do in order for this to be considered. If it had been  clearer I dont think Mr H wouldve had to 
make several phone calls to Lloyds. And I can certainly appreciate  that Mr H has 
experienced some worry and inconvenience  trying to sort things out with Lloyds. So I agree 
with the investigator  that Mr H is entitled to some  additional compensation.   
Lloyds has refunded two months interest and overdraft  charges to Mr H as a gesture of 
goodwill. And I think that given he didnt receive the banks  letter  about the new charges, this 
was fair. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything  more.  
Its not the role of this service to punish  banks for their mistakes.  Our role is to award whats  
fair and reasonable. And I do think  Mr H should  be properly compensated for the poor 
service he received on certain occasions.  He had to make a number of phone calls to Lloyds 
Ref: DRN16960945to try and speak to its CSU department. And this caused Mr H some inconvenience  and 
stress. And Lloyds failed  to make call-backs to Mr H which added to his stress while  trying  to 
resolve the matter.  
I can see Mr H has already  been  paid £18 to cover the cost of his telephone calls. He has 
also received £50 compensation for his trouble and upset. But I agree with our investigator 
that the additional amount  Lloyds  are offering isnt quite enough for the time, effort  and 
inconvenience involved. Lloyds has agreed to further compensation of £100 for Mr Hs 
trouble and upset.  Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  our service 
makes, I think thats a fair and reasonable response.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr H £100  compensation for the uncertain  and poor 
communications he received about  the new overdraft charge.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1696094