K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) were  wrong  to 
report adverse information to his credit file. He says this couldve had a significant impact on 
his career and that hes lost trust in the business. Hed therefore  like them  to allow  him to 
cancel his new, current finance agreement with them.
background 
Mr S had a contract hire agreement with VWFS  and terminated it early in July 2018. He paid 
all outstanding amounts but in mid July he received an arrears  letter  from them saying he 
still owed £405.62.
He complained to VWFS  and told them that this could have serious consequences for his 
career as he had to report any adverse  records on his credit file to his employer. VWFS 
agreed that theyd  made a mistake  and that there were no arrears  on his account. The 
request had been made automatically, and before the system had been updated, to show  
the account was settled.  They promised  to rectify Mr Ss credit file and remove any adverse 
data and they offered Mr S £50 to compensate him for the inconvenience  hed experienced. 
He didnt accept  this and instead  he referred his complaint  to this service. Subsequently  he 
discovered that one of the credit reference  agencies was still reporting  adverse and 
inaccurate information about payment history  on this account.
Our investigator looked into the issue for Mr S and VWFS explained that they had written  to 
each of the credit reference agencies in September to ensure any adverse entries were 
removed. They couldnt be sure why, but it appeared that the credit reference  agency in 
question hadnt  received  their message and had reported some  delinquency. They  
understood the impact that this would have had on Mr S and they therefore offered to 
increase the compensation to £250.  
The investigator thought that this was a reasonable offer. He understood that Mr Ss 
circumstances were  a little different and that the consequences were graver  for him, but he 
didnt think it would  be fair to take those circumstances into account,  he could only consider 
what went wrong. 
He understood  that Mr S had lost confidence in the business but he didnt  think  it would be 
fair to tell VWFS to cancel his current agreement as nothing had gone wrong with that and 
the two agreements were  unrelated.
But Mr S didnt think VWFSs offer was sufficient and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN14785252Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
This was an unfortunate incident  and I can understand  Mr Ss frustration as its clear the 
impact on his career could be significant  if his credit  file was unduly impacted. But it would 
be unreasonable to ask VWFS to provide disproportionate compensation because  Mr Ss 
circumstances are different than the circumstances other customers may find themselves in.
I think its unlikely that VWFS knew the impact adverse credit reporting would have had on 
Mr S so I think  it wouldnt be fair for me to expect them to take additional  or unusual 
measures to remedy the situation.
VWFS have  accepted they made  a mistake because they failed  to update  their systems 
before an arrears letter was dispatched.  Theyve  also provided evidence  that they told the 
credit reference agencies to amend their files. Its not clear why this didnt happen but they 
have responded  positively;  appreciated  Mr Ss situation and offered, what I think  in the 
circumstances is, a fair level of compensation.
Mr S has asked  to cancel the new finance agreement he took out with the business.  I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  of me to insist that was the case. Nothing appears  to 
have gone wrong  with that agreement and its not part of this dispute.  
So whilst Im asking VWFS  to pay £250  in compensation,  I dont think  it would be reasonable 
to ask them to pay any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1478525