K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs G say Northern Bank  Limited mis-sold them the MPPI.  
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr G.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G, 
especially as theyve  waited so long for their complaint to be resolved, so Ill explain the 
reasons for this below.
Northern Bank has provided  a copy of a mortgage application Mr and Mrs G completed 
when they took out their mortgage.  I can see that the mortgage application form presents the 
policy as an optional product  giving  the option to say yes or no to taking out the cover  - 
and asks for some choices to be made about  who will be covered, and for how much. This 
part of the form has been completed  to request cover for Mr G with a benefit of £150 per 
month. And Mr and Mrs G have signed  the application form to confirm they agree with what  
it says.
Mr and Mrs G have said they may have assumed that any mention of insurance was about 
home insurance rather than PPI. But I think the form clearly  explained what  the cover they 
were requesting was for. So with everything  in mind, I think Northern Bank  made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out to cover  Mr G. 
But I can understand why they may not remember that now,  given that this policy  was sold 
nearly 25 years ago.
As Northern  Bank says it recommended  the MPPI, it had to check  that the MPPI was right 
for Mr G  as the sole policy holder. And based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the MPPI  cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. 
Mr G has told us he was entitled to 6 months  full pay followed  by 6 months half pay if he 
had been too ill to work, and was in a very secure  job. But the mortgage was a significant 
financial commitment secured against  Mr and Mrs Gs home, and the MPPI could have 
helped cover their repayments  for up to 12 months  if Mr G had been too ill to work,  longer 
than hes said his full sick pay would have lasted. And while  I dont doubt that Mr G felt very 
secure in his employment, the whole purpose  of insurance like this is to cover against  the 
unexpected.
It is possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs G about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But as mentioned above, I think they chose to take it out  so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN11325362Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their MPPI  and whether 
Northern Bank treated  them  unfairly. 
Northern Bank has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Gs MPPI was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked  at how Northern Bank has been working 
this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission 
was less than half the cost of the MPPI. As thats  the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  
about the commission  so I dont think Northern Bank treated them unfairly. This means  it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs G back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1132536