K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) withdrew her cover for a 
diamond ring under  her home insurance and wont pay her claim except as an item under 
the personal possessions cover  with a limit of £1,045.
background
Mrs F took out her policy through RSA in November 2016. She had obtained  a quotation and 
spoke to RSA on the telephone to put cover in place. She advised  RSA that she had a 
diamond ring worth  £22,000  and she was told this would be specified on the policy. But in 
order to retain cover  for the ring, she would need to send in an original valuation within 30 
days. She says she sent in a copy of a valuation but RSA didnt  receive it. She further said 
she didnt receive  the letter RSA says it sent advising that cover for the ring would be 
withdrawn. The policy renewed in 2017, without the ring being specified.
In September  2018 Mrs F made a claim to RSA as she had lost the ring. It explained that 
cover had been removed for the ring but that she wouldnt  have been covered for the loss as 
RSA considered it to have  been  mislaid rather than lost. It was prepared to deal with the 
claim under the personal possessions cover as an unspecified item but this would be subject 
to the single item limit of £1,045.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that RSA had acted reasonably  and that 
Mrs F didnt  have cover for her loss. He also said that she wouldnt have been covered for 
this loss in any event, as the item was lost in the house.
Mrs F replied that she hadnt received the letter from RSA.  She thought that as the ring was 
on the policy schedule,  it was covered. And she said she didnt lose the ring in the house,  
but outside in the dustbin.  She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the valuation
I have listened  to the lengthy telephone call setting  up the policy,  between  RSA, Mrs F and 
her husband. In that call it was clearly explained, and Mrs Fs husbands replies show that he 
understood, that an original valuation, less than three years  old, should  be sent, together  
with a photo of the ring. It was also clearly  explained  that if the valuation wasnt received 
within 30 days, the ring would  no longer be covered under the policy. Mrs F was keen to 
have the policy in place so RSA agreed  to set it up rather than wait for the valuation  before 
doing so. She wasnt specifically  told that it had to be sent by recorded delivery, but it was 
repeated in the middle and at the end of the call, that if it was sent recorded delivery it would  
be sent back the same way. Mrs F gave authority for her husband to speak to RSA so I think 
it fair to say that the information was given to both of them
Mrs F asserts that she sent a copy of the valuation but not by recorded delivery. She didnt 
send a photo as she is self-conscious  about her hand being  photographed. But I think the 
requirement that it be the original valuation was clear, and the photo didnt necessarily need 
Ref: DRN12410092to be of her wearing the ring. It was also a requirement that the valuation  be less than three  
years old  the valuation she has produced is from 2011. RSA didnt receive  any copy  
valuation and whilst I appreciate that letters can go astray, I have seen no evidence  that it 
was sent eg copy  letter or certificate  of posting. Even if RSA had received it, RSA would  
have been entitled to withdraw cover because  Mrs F hadnt complied with its requirements.
Mrs F has told us that when she spoke to the claims handler about claiming for the ring 
under the personal possessions cover, she was told that a copy of the valuation  would  be 
sufficient. Handling  of a claim may be different   the phone call setting up the policy  and the 
subsequent letter made it clear  that the original document  was needed.
RSA has shown us the letter it sent to Mrs F in mid-November 2016. It said it hadnt received 
the valuation but that she had until the end of November to supply it or it would be removed 
from cover. Mrs F says she didnt receive  the letter. But I think  that RSA sent it and clearly  
warned her. Also when  the renewed policy schedule was sent to Mrs F in November 2017, 
the specified ring was no longer listed. So I think that RSA acted reasonably  when it 
removed the ring from cover.
The ring was specified under the contents  cover in the policy. This covers things like theft, 
fire and flood, but not accidental loss. Arguably  it should have been specified under the 
personal possessions  cover which would have covered  the ring whether  it was in or out of 
the house. Indeed  by accepting the claim as a non-specified item under the personal 
possessions cover, RSA is agreeing that it would be covered. But, in view of my findings  
concerning the provision  of a valuation, the ring isnt covered except as a non-specified item.
Overall I can understand Mrs Fs distress at her loss. But I think that RSA had made  clear  to 
her what  its terms  were,  and Mrs F didnt comply  with those terms. So I think  it acted fairly in 
withdrawing cover for the specified item.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1241009