K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says Cambria Automobiles (South East)  Limited (Cambria) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she arranged financing to buy a car in 2006. 
background
The PPI policy was paid for by a monthly  premium  and provided accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. It also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator considered Mrs Gs complaint and recommended it be upheld.  Cambria 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to me to review  afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Cambrias told us that its representative would have  recommended the policy to Mrs G. That 
means Cambria needed to take steps to ensure  it was right for her. I dont think it was right 
for her and Ill explain why.
The policy sold to cover Mrs G excluded accident  and sickness  claims due to, or arising 
from, any pre-existing medical  condition.
Mrs G initially  said that, when the policy was sold to her, shed already been  diagnosed with 
two medical conditions. More recently,  Mrs G told us about complications  shed  suffered  as a 
result of taking medication for one of those conditions.  I think  Mrs G would probably have 
considered that one or more of these medical conditions were  the most likely  reason for her 
to have time off work in the future. But Mrs G wouldnt have been able to claim for any time 
off that was related to them. So I think the policy  recommended to Mrs G wasnt right for her.
Cambria argues the policy  exclusions would have  been pointed out to Mrs G but Im not 
persuaded of that. And, in any event, Ive already explained that the PPI was recommended 
to Mrs G, meaning Cambria  had to do more than just highlight  the exclusion clause. Mrs G 
was entitled to rely on its professional advice  to take out the policy.  And I dont think  shed 
have done so if this issue had been  discussed with her.
Cambrias also said Mrs G could still have benefitted from other  aspects of the policy,  
including unemployment  cover, and that meant the average customer would  nevertheless 
have opted to buy it. But, while I recognise  Mrs G could still have claimed  on the policy  for 
other things,  I dont think shed have gone ahead and bought it on that basis alone. The 
accident and sickness part of the policy was a significant element of the cover and I think its 
more likely she wouldnt have taken the policy at all had she been properly advised and 
informed at the time.  
Ref: DRN18490712putting things right
Cambria should put Mrs G in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Cambria  should:
Pay Mrs G the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Cambria can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Cambria to take off tax from this interest.  Cambria  must 
give Mrs G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Cambria  Automobiles  
(South East) Limited to put things right for Mrs G as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1849071