K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains about the customer service she received from Barclays Bank  UK Plc when 
she wanted to remove herself from the signing mandate  of a charity  account.
background
Ms R is a long standing personal  customer of Barclays. She was also a signatory to two 
accounts held by a charity  she volunteered for. Charity accounts are treated as business  
accounts. At the relevant  time there were two other signatories to the account, and the 
mandate required any two to sign.  In May 2018 Ms R urgently wanted to remove herself 
from the charitys signing mandate which didnt happen until the end of June 2018. So she 
complained about that, and the customer service she received when she phoned the bank  
about it.
Barclays treated these as two separate issues, but as they are so closely  linked theyve 
been dealt with together when Ms R complained  to us. Barclays paid Ms R £75 for the way it 
handled the mandate change, and offered a further  £50 for the phone  call. Ms R didnt think  
this was enough for such appalling service. So she complained to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint as hed misunderstood the compensation. He thought  
Barclays had initially offered £50, then increased it to £75. So he suggested Barclays  pay an 
extra £25 to make  £100. Both parties disagreed with him. Ms R didnt think  that was enough 
 she wanted  at least £200.  And Barclays didnt think it should pay more. So its come to me 
to make a decision. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019 as Id come to a different 
outcome to the investigator.  I thought total compensation of £125  was fair, but I wanted both 
parties to have the opportunity to respond. Barclays accepted my conclusion and had 
nothing further  to add. Ms R provided  some points  of clarification about what  happened.  But 
she still wanted £200, to include the damage  to her reputation as a civil servant.
Im grateful  to both parties for their comments. Im now able to issue my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  .Ive reflected the clarification of some  
details provided  by Ms R in this decision.  But having taken that into consideration, and 
looking at everything  again, I still think the redress offered by Barclays is fair. Let me explain 
why.
There are two aspects to this complaint  the mandate change  and the phone  call. One 
flows from the other.
the mandate change 
On 17 April 2018 Ms R rang Barclays to request  a statement for one of the charity  accounts. 
In that call she mentioned  one of the ladies  was moving away,  so asked how a signatory 
could be removed from the mandate. She was told two signatories  would need to authorise 
the change by completing mandate change forms. Forms cant  be emailed out blank as 
theyre pre-populated. But they can be downloaded  from the Barclays website and then 
Ref: DRN11734552printed off and signed by the authorised  signatories.  At the end of this call Ms R requested 
and was given  the direct number for the mandate team. 
In response to the provisional decision, Ms R clarified the older lady on whose behalf shed 
enquired, had changed her mind about leaving.  Ms R then decided  shed  resign from the 
charity, so the mandate  required updating to remove her. Ms R didnt download the mandate 
change forms for the other signatories to complete. Instead, at the end of May 2018  she 
wrote to Barclays under her sole signature. As well as removing herself from the mandate,  
this letter  said any statements, cheque-books or other charity correspondence  should be 
sent to the charitys county treasurer rather than to her. But anything about her removal from 
the mandate should be sent to her personally,  not the charity.  Having received no response 
to her letter, Ms R chased Barclays by email, and then on 19 June 2018 she rang Barclays  
which led to her second complaint. 
In the meantime, on 7 June  2018 Barclays had written to the charity explaining the mandate 
forms needed to be downloaded and signed by two officials. Ms R was finally  removed from 
the mandate at the end of June 2018,  but she had to explain herself to the charitys local 
officials. As well as being embarrassing,  Ms R thinks Barclays letter  to the charity  was a data 
protection breach. Barclays paid Ms R £75 to acknowledge the delay in removing her from 
the mandate, and for not following her instructions. 
Its for a court or the Information  Commissioner rather  than this service to decide  on data 
protection matters.  But Im not sure theres been any wrongful disclosure. Id expect Barclays 
to only act on instructions  signed in accordance with the mandate,  which  required two 
signatories. So until it received properly authorised instructions Ms R remained an official of 
the charity and a signatory on the accounts. She already knew she couldnt remove  herself  
from the mandate without another authorised signatory agreeing the change.  Ms R might 
have preferred to choose her moment to tell the charity of her intention to leave. But I dont 
think Barclays was necessarily wrong to write to the charity explaining how to update  the 
mandate.
Ms R initially  wanted £500  to reflect  the damage to her good  name.  I take Ms Rs point about 
the importance of integrity to someone  in her line of work. And that she wanted  a clean 
break from the charity  and its finances once shed  decided to resign. But Ive seen no 
evidence of any actual  damage to Ms Rs reputation in her employers eyes. And because  I 
dont think it was wrong to write to the charity in the way it did, it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Barclays to pay compensation for that. 
I understand Ms R received a further letter about the charity  account in November 2018  
while her complaints been with this service. She thinks  this is a further data breach. 
Although unfortunate, I think the risk to the charity was minimal;  given  Ms R was, until 
recently, an official. And I think the impact on Ms R was also minimal. It would be different if 
Ms Rs personal finances had been  disclosed to the charity. But the letter Ms R refers to is 
clearly addressed to the charity. She didnt  need  to open it - she could have ignored it, or 
forwarded it to the charitys county office.  So with the impact in mind, I still think  the £75 
Barclays has paid is fair. 
the phone  call 
The 19 June 2018 call was clearly a frustrating experience for Ms R. Having received no 
reply, she phoned  the personal banking number to check if her recorded delivery letter had 
been received.  The agent was polite, but kept Ms R waiting  for 20 minutes as he tried to put 
Ref: DRN11734553the call through  to the business  mandate team. Unhappy at being  kept waiting, Ms R asked 
to log a complaint,  and was kept on hold again. The agents system had crashed so he 
couldnt log the complaint himself. And the complaints  team wouldnt take the call unless the 
complaint was logged first. I fully understand why after being on hold so long Ms R decided 
to hang up. 
The call clearly could have gone better  and Ms R could have been  given  the direct number 
for the mandate  team  earlier in the call. But as shed previously been given it in the April call 
I think she could have  rung them direct. And if shed  got through, its likely  shed  have been  
told again she needed signed  mandate forms.
Barclays apologised for the poor experience and offered £50 including £20 to cover  her call 
costs. I think this is fair and what Id usually recommend in similar  circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint in the sense the redress proposed by 
Barclays Bank UK Plc is enough  to resolve  this complaint. 
So Barclays  Bank UK Plc should now pay Ms R the £50 it offered, in addition  to the £75 
already paid
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1173455