K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I asked everyone  to send me any further  comments and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs L or Santander responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.  
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12110172copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain  that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a home improvement loan in October 2003 with a PPI policy  alongside  it. They 
paid a monthly amount  for the policy.
Even though  this was a joint loan,  the policy  only covered  Mr L for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. In the event of him making a successful claim it would have paid out the monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint as Mr L told us he had a pre-existing medical  condition at the 
time of the sale. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  and so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree the sale took place  in a branch meeting. And from looking at the paperwork Ive 
been given, I think it is most likely the policy was sold during a meeting. Santander had to make it 
clear that the PPI was optional  and Mr and Mrs L had to agree  to take it out. Mr and Mrs L have said 
the cover was added without their knowledge and consent.
Although there  is some documentation, Santander does not have all of the documentation  from the 
time of sale which is understandable considering how long ago the sale was. But it has been  able to 
provide a sample of the separate PPI application form that would have been completed at the time of 
sale. This would have  been  completed  and signed separately from the credit. So I think Mr and Mrs L 
would have known that they didnt  need to take out the cover  and they chose to take it.
Ive also seen  that the PPI cover was only taken  out by Mr L. This would  appear to suggest  that there 
was a conversation about the cover and, following  that discussion,  a choice was made  to only cover 
Mr L.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome  letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs L after the policy  
was arranged. It refers  to Mr L choosing  to take out the cover and refers to the direct debit payments 
that would be taken and from what date.  If Mr and Mrs L didnt know about this cover or hadnt agreed 
to take out the policy, I think they would have questioned this with Santander when they received this 
documentation or when these payments started to be deducted from their bank account.
So based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Santander made it clear the policy was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs L agreed to take it out, knowing they could  refuse it if they didnt want  it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for them   
and based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ls circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was.
Ref: DRN12110173Mr L told us that he was suffering from a pre-existing  medical condition at the time of the sale. Our 
adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis Mr L wouldnt have been able to make a claim for this 
condition as pre-existing medical  conditions were excluded from the policy.
Santander has said that pre-existing conditions  would have been discussed at the time of sale as it 
would have formed part of the suitability  check on the policy at the point of sale.  Santander did ask for 
evidence and further information  about  the pre-existing  medical condition when it was looking at Mr 
and Mrs Ls complaint but they did not revert to them.
I asked Mr and Mrs Ls representatives for further  information  about  the condition but at the point of 
writing, I have not heard  back  with any information.
The medical  condition Mr L had occurred 22 years  before the sale of the PPI. At the time,
Mr L took two months off work. Mr L has not told us of any other times  the medical condition occurred  
 specifically, not in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy. The terms of the policy  state 
that the monthly benefit will not be paid for any condition  for which you had received treatment or 
advice during  the 12 months  before the start date.
So based on everything Ive seem, it appears that Mr L may not have needed to see a doctor for the 
condition in the 12 months prior to taking out the cover and therefore  he may not have been affected 
by this restriction.
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Ls repayments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr L 
became too ill to work, or if he became  unemployed. As there couldve been serious  consequences of 
not keeping up repayments  on a debt secured  against their home, if Mr L couldnt work or lost his job 
then the PPI meant their monthly repayments wouldve been met. So I think  the PPI policy  couldve 
been helpful to them.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1211017