K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains about the advice she received from Phoenix Life Limited in 1991  to transfer 
her occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a new Personal Pension Policy  (PPP). She also 
complains that in 1996 she was advised  to keep  her pension with Phoenix rather than 
transfer it to her new employers scheme.  
background
Phoenix advised Ms L to transfer her OPS to a PPP in 1991.
In 1996 Ms L joined a new OPS and wrote to Phoenix to confirm  that she wished to cease 
regular contributions into her PPP. 
Phoenix wrote to Ms L in 1999  as part of the industry wide pension review,  to confirm that it 
believed she had been incorrectly advised to transfer out of her OPS.  And it offered  her the 
sum of £14,683 in redress, which she accepted.  
Phoenix wrote to Ms L again  in 2002. It said it had conducted a further  review  of her policy in 
line with updated  guidance from the regulator.  As a result, it added a further £4,355 to her 
PPP.
Ms L complained to Phoenix in August 2017. She said she had been financially 
disadvantaged by the advice to transfer out of her OPS  in 1991. And she also said that she 
had been advised by Phoenix in 1996  to retain her PPP rather than transfer it into her new 
employers OPS. But Phoenix didnt uphold her complaint so she brought  it to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  believe  the complaint should be upheld.  In relation to the advice given 
in 1991, she felt that Phoenix had demonstrated that it had carried  out the pension review in 
1999 and again in 2002 as required by the regulator. While it was unfortunate that the 
assumptions used at the time have proven to be inaccurate,  that wasnt Phoenixs fault. 
The adjudicator also didnt think that Ms Ls complaint about events in 1996 should be 
upheld. This was because there was no evidence to demonstrate that Phoenix had provided 
any advice to Ms L, as unfortunately  telephone calls were not recorded at the time. The only 
evidence available  demonstrated that Ms L had instructed  Phoenix  to stop taking regular 
contributions to her policy, and Phoenix had acted  on this instruction.
Ms L didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion on either of these points. She said in 
particular:
The wording of the letter offering redress in 1999  stated that the fund should match  
or exceed the benefits from her scheme;
There was no mention of time limits to refer the case to the ombudsman;
The risks associated  with the plan had not been  explained to her. 
The adjudicator considered Ms Ls comments but was not persuaded to change her mind.  
She said that Phoenix had carried out the review in line with the guidance from the regulator 
who didnt require it to be repeated. And she said that the unsuitability of the plan, including 
the fact that risks werent  explained to Ms L, had been addressed  by the redress  paid. The 
ombudsman had confirmed that despite the time which had passed this service  is able to 
Ref: DRN14275192consider the complaint and so she didnt think Ms Ls comment about time limits to refer the 
case to the ombudsman was relevant. 
Because the parties have  been unable to agree the case has now come  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Ms Ls complaint should not be upheld.  I realise  this will come  as a 
disappointment to Ms L, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As our adjudicator has explained,  the advice Ms L was given in 1991 was reviewed  as part 
of the regulators  industry  wide pension review.  This was initiated by the regulator because  it 
feared that consumers  had been given advice which didnt meet the required standards at 
the time.
Where it was determined that unsuitable  advice had been given, firms  had to calculate  
whether this had caused a financial loss. Phoenix  accepted that Ms L had received 
unsuitable advice  so it carried out one of these calculations and found that Ms L had lost out 
financially as a result.
Unfortunately, Ms Ls former OPS would  not reinstate her benefits.  So the aim of the 
calculation and compensation  was to make a payment that was thought to be enough to 
increase the value of Ms Ls PPP to provide  about  the same  level of benefits  as the OPS 
would have done.
The problem was that for many people there was a long period left until their retirement date. 
So the calculations  were based  on a number of assumptions that were  necessary because 
of this. The then regulator set down  how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms  had to use to assess the potential  loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent  mirrored reality  and annuity  rates  have also 
fallen significantly.  Both of these factors have had a big impact,  meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal  pensions  are lower than might  reasonably have been anticipated. So 
although Ms Ls personal pension was increased with the intention  for it to match the 
benefits she would have received from her OPS at retirement, circumstances have meant 
that this hasnt been the case.  
The aim of the pensions  review was effectively to draw  a line under  any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
Phoenix carried out the review as it was required to. And Ms L accepted  Phoenixs offer of 
redress in full and final settlement
I do understand why Ms L is unhappy with the methodology used and feels  the 
compensation she received was insufficient. But it was the then regulators decision on how 
to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this service  can now 
challenge or ignore.
Ms L has also complained  that she was advised  over the telephone in 1996  to leave her 
pension with Phoenix for at least 10 years. Unfortunately,  telephone calls were not recorded 
Ref: DRN14275193at the time so there  is no evidence  of what was said and I must reach my decision on the 
basis of what I think is more likely to have  happened. 
The key evidence we do have from the time is an exchange of correspondence between 
Ms L and Phoenix, in which Ms L said that she wanted to stop contributing  to her PPP, and 
Phoenix confirmed  it had actioned that request. There  is no mention in that correspondence  
that Ms L was considering transferring her pension  into her new employers scheme, or that 
she had been  advised by Phoenix not to do so.
Ive carefully considered  what Ms L has to say on this issue. But, having done so, Im not 
persuaded on balance that Phoenix advised her not to transfer  out. So I dont  find that 
Phoenix made an error.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427519