K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Mobile Money Limited  lent to him irresponsibly when it gave  him a 
logbook loan. He also thinks  that Mobile Money treated him unfairly when it took funds from 
his account and when it repossessed his car.  
background
Mr E was given a loan by Mobile Money in September 2011 for £1,000. I understand the 
loan was secured  against a vehicle that he owned.  
Mr Es loan was to be repaid in 12 monthly  instalments. It appears,  from the limited 
information provided, that the monthly  repayments were likely to be around  £205. Mr E had 
difficulties repaying  the loan and his car was repossessed and sold by Mobile Money.  I 
understand that the loan was eventually written off in June 2012.
Mobile Money initially said that as Mr E took his loan more  than six years ago, his complaint 
couldnt be investigated by this Service as it was outside the time limits. But it then accepted 
the adjudicators  view that we were able to look into Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E's complaint was then assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He didnt  think  hed seen 
enough evidence  for him to uphold the complaint. Mr E didnt accept the adjudicators 
assessment. As the complaint hasnt been resolved,  it has been passed to me to make  a 
final decision  on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable  and irresponsible  lending  on our website and 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Es complaint.
Mobile Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend to Mr E 
irresponsibly.
Mobile Money was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.   Mobile Money had to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E would be able repay 
the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Mobile Money had to do, but it 
could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount,  the length  of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN13981802the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for any particular application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
There is very limited information  about  what happened when Mr E applied  for his loan. This 
is understandable given  the amount of time that has passed. 
Mobile Money has told us that its approach at the time Mr Es loan was written  off in 2012 
was to take the consumer through an income and expenditure assessment and that on 
occasion, bank  statements  were also requested. Mobile Money hasnt been able to provide  
any of the information it gathered at the time from Mr E as it no longer  holds the lending  
documents and it says it cannot confirm if it asked  for his bank statements at the time. Given 
the limited information,  I cant fairly say whether any checks  that Mobile Money may have 
carried out at the time were reasonable or proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, even if Mobile Money didnt carry out reasonable  or proportionate checks at the 
time, this doesnt mean that it would be fair for me to automatically uphold Mr Es complaint. 
This is because, from the limited evidence available,  its not clear  to me whether better 
checks by Mobile Money would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr E 
might have difficulty repaying his loan in a sustainable manner. Without  additional 
information, I cannot say what  better checks by Mobile Money  would have shown at the 
time.
Mr E has told us that he was struggling financially when he took the loan. But he hasnt been 
able to provide  bank  statements or any other evidence from around the time Mobile Money 
provided him with the loan. This is understandable as so many  years have since passed.  But 
Mr E hasnt been able to provide sufficient  evidence about his financial circumstances which 
I think ought reasonably  to have led Mobile Money  to decline his application. So I cant  fairly 
say that Mobile  Money shouldnt have lent to Mr E or that it lent to him irresponsibly.  
Mr E has also complained that Mobile Money  didnt treat him fairly when he found it difficult 
to repay  his loan.  He has complained that Mobile  Money took multiple  payments  from his 
account all on one day which left him stranded. I can see from Mr Es loan account annual 
statement that several payments of £80 were  charged to his payment card on one day in 
February 2012. It appears from the statement that Mr Es account  was likely to have been in 
arrears at that point.  Mr E had apparently made  one full payment in October and a part 
payment in December,  so it seems likely that Mobile  Money  then debited  an amount in 
February in response  to the arrears  that were building up on the account.  
I dont know why Mobile Money debited these payments all on one day  it may well have 
been partly  an error, but I think businesses do sometimes make mistakes. However, it 
doesnt look to me as though Mr E was charged  anything in excess of what he owed for his 
loan in total, and I cant  say that hes lost out overall from these multiple  debits, even though 
I recognise it may have  been very inconvenient  for him at the time.  But on the whole, there 
isnt enough information about  what happened  at the time or why these payments were  all 
Ref: DRN13981803taken on the same day for me to say that Mobile  Money acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr E.
Mr E is also unhappy that Mobile Money  repossessed his car. He says he was bullied into 
giving up his car and that it was worth £4,000 which was more than the outstanding balance 
on his loan at the time.
It seems  from Mr Es annual loan statement that his car was repossessed and sold in May 
2012 after a period when  arrears were building up on his account. Mr E says that hed 
already repaid an amount  equivalent to the capital hed borrowed when his car was 
repossessed and that it was unfair  to sell the car at what he thinks  was an under value,  just 
to pay off the remaining interest.  But I think  Mr E was likely to have been  aware  that under 
the loan agreement he had to repay the capital he borrowed  plus interest. I dont know how 
Mobile Money came to the decision to repossess Mr Es car, but I think  its likely that it was 
entitled to do so under the terms of its loan agreement with him. 
Mr E says his car was worth around  £4,000  and that he was told he would be refunded the 
difference between  what  he owed and the price  achieved for the car. In the event it seems  
that £820 was applied  to reduce  Mr Es loan balance following the sale of the car. Mr E may 
think his car was worth substantially more, but I think its likely that Mobile  Money incurred 
various costs associated with the repossession and sale which  I think  it was entitled to 
recover from the sale proceeds. In any event, I dont have enough information or 
independent evidence about  the cars  actual  re-sale value  or what  happened  at the time for 
me to say that Mobile  Money acted unfairly  or unreasonably when it repossessed  and sold 
Mr Es car. 
It appears from Mr Es annual statement that following the sale of his car his loan balance 
(including interest due) had been reduced to just under £800. It then seems an interest  
rebate was applied which  further reduced  the amount Mr E owed and then the remainder of 
the debt appears  to have been  written  off. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything that both Mr E and Mobile Money have been able to tell 
us. I know Mr E is unhappy about  what happened  and he feels  he was treated unfairly by 
Mobile Money. But it seems to me that a substantial amount  of what  Mr E owed under the 
loan agreement was written off by the lender. And as Ive explained, there  isnt enough 
evidence available  for me to say that I think Mobile Money lent to Mr E irresponsibly or 
treated him unfairly in some other  way.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr E, but having reviewed the limited evidence available about this 
matter, I am not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint and I am not making any award 
against Mobile Money Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2021.
Ref: DRN13981804Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398180