K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about Southern Rock Insurance  Companys handling of her car 
insurance policy.
background
At the end of November 2017,  Mrs R took out car insurance with Southern Rock. The 
application was completed online by Mrs Rs husband on her behalf. A day after the policy 
started, Mrs Rs car was stolen and she claimed on her policy. During validation  checks  
Southern Rock discovered that Mrs Rs speeding  points hadnt  been disclosed during the 
application. Mrs R said her husband just made a mistake in not disclosing her points.
Southern Rock said that had they known about Mrs Rs points, her premium would have been 
21% higher. They said that meant  they were entitled  to settle Mrs Rs claim proportionately by 
paying 79% of the claim. But Southern Rock had, mistakenly, earlier told Mrs R that they 
would pay 87% of the claim. So Southern Rock said they would honour that amount.
Mrs R felt that settling the claim  proportionately  was unfair, so she complained. But Southern  
Rock didnt uphold  her complaint. Mrs R brought her complaint  to our service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Southern Rock hadnt done  anything wrong. 
As Mrs R didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs R, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mrs Rs points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Southern Rock have dealt with Mrs R in 
a fair and reasonable way.
Southern Rock have said that Mrs R not disclosing her speeding points amounted  to, what is 
known in the insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
that sets out what  insurers may do in such a situation. It says that if an insurer  would have 
charged a higher premium had they known about a fact that hadnt  been disclosed, they may 
reduce proportionately  the amount to be paid on a claim.
During the online application  Mrs R was asked  if she had been convicted of any motoring 
offence, disqualified from driving or had any fixed penalties within the last 5 years?  The 
answer given on her behalf  was no. While I accept that was a mistake and there was no 
dishonest intention, it was nevertheless a careless misrepresentation.
Southern Rock have said that had she disclosed her penalty points her premium  would have 
cost 21% more than what she was charged. As a result, in accordance  with CIDRA, 
Southern Rock were  entitled to reduce the claim by that amount. But what  they actually did 
was reduce the claim by 13% because they had mistakenly told Mrs R they would pay 87% 
of the claim. While I sympathise with Mrs Rs position, I think  Southern Rock have acted 
reasonably. 
Ref: DRN13100562Mrs R said that her speeding points were  for a minor motoring offence and that she doesnt 
consider herself  to be a high risk driver  to merit a higher premium for that reason. She also 
said the speeding points have no relation to the theft, so it shouldnt have had a bearing on 
her claim.
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Mrs Rs premium would have been higher had she disclosed  her speeding points. But just 
because Southern Rock would have  charged  Mrs R more because  of her speeding  points 
doesnt mean that Southern Rock  have treated her unfairly. Southern  Rock  have provided 
me with information to show  how Mrs Rs premium  has been calculated. That information is 
commercially sensitive  so I can't share  it with Mrs R. But having looked at it carefully,  Im 
satisfied that Southern  Rock treated Mrs R in the same way as it would other policyholders 
in similar  circumstances. So I think they calculated her premium reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mrs R thinks it was unfair for Southern Rock to reduce her claim 
because her policy would have cost more had they known about  her points. But each insurer 
will have their own methods of calculating risk. Im aware that most  insurers  think an 
individual who has received penalty points  for speeding presents a higher risk than people 
who havent. As insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres anything 
wrong with insurers considering whether  or not certain individuals fall into higher risk 
groupings. So I cant say Mrs R has been  singled out or treated differently  to others in similar 
circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1310056