K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that MCE Insurance Company  Limited  (MCE) didnt update the necessary 
database after he took out a motor  insurance  policy with it. Mr D also complains that he 
didnt receive a refund due from MCE after he made an amendment  to a previous policy.
background
Mr D amended a motor insurance policy he held with MCE on 2 February 2018. MCE told  
Mr D it refunded £994.30 to his original payment card several days later on 7 February 2018, 
but Mr D says this wasnt received.
Mr D took a further policy with MCE on 17 February 2018 and on 18 February 2018 he was 
pulled over by the police and his car was impounded. The police have written to Mr D to 
explain that his insurance wasnt showing when the police officer made the necessary  
checks. Mr Ds car was later disposed  of as the documentation the police required wasnt 
presented to them.
Our Investigator  considered Mr Ds complaint and thought  MCE had provided  enough  
information that showed Mr D had been refunded by MCE, and it had also updated the 
necessary database,  the Motor Insurance Database (MID). As a result,  our investigator 
didnt think MCE should have to do anything to resolve Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will look at whether or not MCE refunded the amount it said it had to Mr D. MCE has 
shown us evidence  from its system  that a refund was made back  to Mr Ds original  payment  
card on 7 February 2018. MCE has also confirmed that the payment has not been returned 
to it. 
If after checking Mr D finds this payment has not been received to the account his payment 
card is associated with he may wish to take this up with his provider, as it may be able to 
help him further.  But as MCE  has been  able to show it made this payment I dont think it has 
done anything  wrong.
Turning to whether  or not Mr Ds motor insurance  had been  correctly recorded on  MID. 
Its the insurers responsibility to update the MID when it sets up a new policy.  This is one of 
the methods used  by the police to check if a car is insured.
I can see the police have written to Mr D explaining  that on the day he was pulled over and 
his car impounded checks were carried out with  MID that showed his car wasnt showing as 
insured.
Ref: DRN19099182Ive considered the information provided by Mr D which includes the letter  provided by the 
police but I can also see evidence provided by MCE which includes a screenshot of the MID 
showing his car as insured on the date Mr D was pulled over by the police.
With this in mind it is clear there has been some  confusion  as to whether or not Mr Ds car 
was insured at the time he was pulled over, I cant be certain why this confusion happened, 
or which party was at fault.  But as MCE can show Mr Ds car was showing as insured with 
the MID on the date his car was impounded I dont think it failed to update the database  
when it was supposed to, or that it did anything  wrong.
I can see that MCE sent evidence of Mr Ds insurance to him following his request after his 
car was impounded and before it was destroyed. I can also see that Mr D attempted to add a 
third party to his insurance, but the appropriate payment wasnt  made,  so the third party  was 
never added to the policy.
Mr D was unable to provide the necessary proof  of insurance to the police before his car was 
destroyed, but I havent seen anything  to suggest  MCE  did anything wrong, so I dont think it 
should have to do anything to resolve  Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1909918