K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in October 2005  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy during a face to face meeting with a 
representative.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy only provided  cover for Mr G. It 
provided Mr G with cover for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £350 a month towards Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £20.79 a month but 
Mr and Mrs G only had to pay half price for the first six months.
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a paper merchant. He has told us he was not entitled  to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying their mortgage should he be 
unable to work. He has told us he would have been  entitled to redundancy pay and had 
death in service benefit. He has said he had suffered from back pain in around 1993. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in November 
2005.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and     
Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on Mr Gs chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN12452262The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in October 2005  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN12452263In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN12452264-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I have been provided with documents from the time of the sale.  In particular, Ive seen a 
document headed Protecting your loan against accident, sickness, unemployment  or ill
Health. This shows that Mr and Mrs G were  asked about their mortgage repayment  
protection needs. There is nothing in this document to indicate that PPI was compulsory. 
Rather, there were  boxes next to the statement: I would like to protect  my mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. I can 
see that the box for Mr G had a Y entered into it whereas  Mrs G had a N entered  in her 
box. Based  on what Ive seen, I can safely assume that they Y stands for Yes and the N 
is for No.  This selection  was later confirmed  in the document as well as the reasons  for it 
and Mr and Mrs G signed this document.
Further section 9 of the mortgage offer  albeit issued after the sale took place  also sets 
out clearly that Mr and Mrs G did not have to take out any insurance  with HSBC and that PPI 
was optional insurance.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs G knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC says it did provide  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs G cant  remember. Looking  at 
what happened when  HSBC sold Mr and Mrs G the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided  
advice. This is because Ive seen  documents from the time of the sale which  make  it clear 
that HSBC discussed PPI with Mr and Mrs G and then made recommendations as to 
whether or not they should take it out.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN12452265the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs G. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  documentation  was 
completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs G had a need for the policy  by asking 
questions about  their wider circumstances  such  their existing means  I dont think it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because  it didnt  ask the main questions that 
it ought to have, for example, about any health conditions Mr G may have had or other 
information about sickness and unemployment  benefits Mr G may have been entitled to from 
his employer or any savings they may have  had.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy. Mr G would  not have received any sick pay if 
he was unable to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits were  limited and they 
didnt have any savings they could fall back on. The policy would  have helped  Mr and 
Mrs G manage  the consequences if Mr G was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs G.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about Mr Gs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding the pre-existing medical condition Mr G has told 
us about, this was in 1993 and Mr G has told us he had to take a week  off work 
because of it. But it doesnt appear that he has had to take any time off work because 
of it since then.  So I think its unlikely  he would have thought he would need to take 
time off for the same condition again  after some 12 years.  There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN12452266Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description of what the policy was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr G was unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) as well as the cost of the policy. I say 
this because the documentation completed with the representative sets out the cost of the 
PPI and Mr G ticked a box saying I would like to protect my mortgage payments for up to 12 
months in the event  of accident,  sickness and unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the benefits, exclusions or limitations before  Mr and Mrs G agreed to take 
out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and  
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and    
Mrs G. So I have gone on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policy,  had HSBC done things properly. 
Ref: DRN12452267While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event      
Mr G was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  They made that decision based on incomplete information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs G were given about  the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefits, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which occurred  within the 
first 12 months of the policy as a result  of any medical condition  for which  treatment 
had been given, or diagnosis had been made or investigations commenced  during 
the 12 months immediately before the start date;  or due to any chronic  condition  from 
which Mr G knowingly  suffered  on the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN12452268But the evidence  about Mr and Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr G was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr G says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the medical condition 
occurred in 1993. Mr G says he took one week off work because of it at the time but it 
doesnt appear that he has had to take time off work for it since.  And so I think  its unlikely he 
would have thought some 12 years  later that this would be the main  reason  that he may 
need to take time off work  again  in the future.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to he wouldve been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions. So I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Any claim Mr and Mrs G made would be limited  to a 12-month period. But they didnt have 
any other means to fall back on if Mr G was off work sick. And they only had limited benefits  
if Mr G was made redundant.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr G be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr G as made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN12452269presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in October 2005 when providing  information about an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs G and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 November  2020.
Ref: DRN124522610Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245226