K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about late payment fees that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (trading as 
Tesco Bank)  applied to his credit card account.
background 
Mr B had a late payment  fee applied to his account in October 2018. He understood 
Tesco Bank was going  to refund the fee, but this wasnt  the case. Further late payment fees 
were applied and the account  eventually defaulted. Mr B considered  this was unfair.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
October 2018 late payment fee had been  properly applied in line with the accounts terms 
and conditions. The investigator didnt find there was any evidence to suggest Tesco Bank  
had agreed to refund the fee.
The investigator concluded Tesco Bank  had contacted Mr B after each late payment fee was 
applied, and told him that the account  was at risk of default. Mr B had made  Tesco Bank 
aware of his intention  to complain to this service,  but the investigator didnt consider this 
meant Tesco Bank couldnt proceed  with the default. 
The investigator didnt  consider there were issues with Tesco  Banks customer service  that 
meant the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B seems  to accept that the October  2018 late payment  fee was properly applied  to his 
account. But he says hes not willing to pay the additional fees and interest,  because  hed 
had considerable difficulty trying  to speak to Tesco Bank about the issues he was 
experiencing.
Mr B says hed been in touch with Tesco Bank every month  since November 2018, and was 
waiting for a manager to call him back. Ive noted everything Mr B has said, and Ive also 
reviewed Tesco Banks records of the contact it had with him. From what  Ive seen, it seems 
Mr B spoke to Tesco Bank  in October  2018,  and again in January and February 2019. The 
notes suggest  Mr B thought Tesco Bank  had agreed to refund the October 2018 late 
payment fee. 
But having  listened to the call between Mr B and Tesco Bank in October 2018, Im not 
persuaded thats the case. Tesco Bank  agreed  to refund a payment  that wasnt  Mr Bs, but 
there was nothing to suggest that the late payment fee would be refunded.
Ref: DRN11087342Tesco Bank wrote to Mr B after each  late payment  fee was applied. The fees were also 
shown on his monthly statements. So I think Tesco Bank did enough to make  Mr B aware  of 
the position on his account.
I can see that it will have been  frustrating for Mr B when Tesco Bank didnt phone as he 
wanted it to. But as Ive already said, I think the bank  made  Mr B aware of the fees and 
interest that were being applied to his account.  So I think it wouldve  been reasonable for 
him to make  the payments that were required to reduce the risk of further charges and 
interest being applied.
Tesco Bank also wrote to Mr B to warn him that the account was at risk of defaulting. Even  
though Mr B had made a formal complaint, he was still obliged to comply with the terms of 
the account. So Im not persuaded that Tesco Bank acted incorrectly when it defaulted the 
account in line with its terms and conditions.
Overall, there are no reasonable grounds on which I can uphold Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1108734