K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2000.  At the same time, they were 
sold a PPI policy. The benefit included £300  to cover their mortgage  payments and an extra 
£50 to cover  other mortgage-related expenses. The benefit was split equally between them, 
so if either  of them couldnt  work,  theyd receive £150 and £25. If they were both off work  at 
the same  time they would received the full benefit  amount.  
Mr and Mrs H say the PPI was added automatically  with their mortgage.  They  say they didnt 
even receive any information  about  it and didnt know how much  it cost. They say they 
wouldnt have bought it if they had been  given better information about  it.
Nationwide had already offered to pay Mr and Mrs H compensation in relation to undisclosed 
commission before Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service,  but it did not agree 
that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Hs mis-sale complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
H didnt agree, so their complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having done so, I am not upholding their complaint.  Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
Nationwide had to offer Mr and Mrs H a clear choice about taking the PPI  it wasnt a 
compulsory part of their mortgage package. Nationwide has provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs 
Hs mortgage application. Theres a separate section for PPI which  makes  it clear the policy  
is optional. Mr and Mrs H chose to take the PPI and chose the type of cover  they wanted  
(accident, sickness and unemployment) and how much benefit they wanted. They signed 
separately for the PPI and they also signed the completed application form.
The PPI and its cost were confirmed in the mortgage offer that was sent to them later. Mr 
and Mrs H received renewal documents every  year about the PPI. And in 2002 Mr and Mrs 
H wrote  to Nationwide asking it to remove Mrs H from cover as she was no longer in 
permanent employment.
In light of this I cannot be satisfied  that Mr and Mrs H were led to believe incorrectly  that the 
PPI was compulsory  and nor can I be satisfied that Mr and Mrs H didnt ever receive any 
information about it. I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H bought the PPI understanding  they had 
a choice about it. 
Ref: DRN10440792Nationwide didnt provide a personal recommendation for Mr and Mrs H in relation to the 
PPI. So it didnt have  to check that the policy was right for them. But it did have an obligation 
to provide enough clear, fair and not misleading  information to them so that they could make 
their own decision about the policy.
It's possible that Nationwide didnt do this. For example, I havent seen any evidence that 
Nationwide explained  some of the important exclusions and limitations to them.  But Ive 
found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt  fundamentally wrong  for them.  Although Mr H says that he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out, I dont think better  information  about the existing 
medical condition  exclusion wouldve caused  them to change  their minds about  taking out 
the policy. I say this because Mr H says it had never caused him to take time off and it was 
well controlled. And the policy would have only excluded the condition for the first 12 months 
of cover.  There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back  
problems.  
Although Mr H was self-employed and  in some cases  this might  have  made it more  
difficult for him to make a successful claim, the terms of this policy didnt make it more  
onerous than for an employed person. 
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would  have still taken out PPI. The policy  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Hs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have noted that Nationwide  has already paid compensation in relation to undisclosed  
commission (in line with the compensation this service would direct) before the complaint 
was brought to this service. And Mr and Mrs H havent complained that Nationwide did 
anything wrong  there. I have thought  about  the other complaint points and how they might 
apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular case.  But these points dont persuade me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  for 
the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to 
do anything. 
Ref: DRN10440793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2021.
S. Allbeury
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1044079