K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Phoenix Wealth Services Limited pressured her into buying  an Over 
50s insurance plan and then unfairly refused to refund any of the premiums  when  she 
stopped paying them after three years.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said hed seen 
no persuasive evidence  of Phoenix putting pressure on Mrs R to take out the policy; instead, 
she had taken it out via an execution-only sale without advice.
He said the terms  and conditions made clear that it only paid out the sum assured on death  
and that there was no cash-in value. He also addressed Mrs Rs other complaint points 
which he didnt believe warranted  upholding  the complaint.
Mrs R did not agree, and said:
She could no longer  afford the premiums due to changed medical circumstances and 
believes Phoenix should have refunded at least a third of the premiums
The policy should have contained a clear  warning  that there was no possibility of 
premium refunds (a cash-in  value); if so she would not have  gone  ahead with it
Her human  rights have been breached
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I am satisfied that he set 
these out in sufficient detail  in his View on the case and I therefore wont repeat these.
I am also satisfied that the investigator  dealt  with the points Mrs R made  recently as these  
were part of her original complaint. For the reasons he outlined, I do not share Mrs Rs view 
that the documentation was unclear  or about  what Phoenix ought  to do.
I recognise she did not accept the investigators analogy with other  types of insurance  but I 
believe this is the correct way to understand  this policy and explains why Phoenix  is not 
obliged to refund premiums (or a portion of them) if a client  chooses  to cancel a policy.
This plan was only ever designed to guarantee a lump sum on death. If Mrs R had died in 
the early years of the plan Phoenix  would have paid out far more  than she had put in; 
conversely if she lived beyond a certain  point the eventual  pay-out would be less than the 
amount paid in premiums  to that date.  This is the nature of insurance. 
Similarly, Mrs Rs premiums paid for the actual  ongoing cost of that life cover  on a month by 
month basis. If Phoenix now had to refund  some of those premiums it would, in effect, be 
paying for the cost of that cover.  This would not be a sustainable business model.  
Ref: DRN13050982my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1305098