K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Society  of Lloyds (SOL) handled her request for 
assistance under her travel insurance policy  and that it agreed  to pay only part of her claim.
My references to SOL include its underwriter, and the underwriters assistance and claim 
agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint,  and I include an extract  from my 
provisional decision here:
Shortly before Mrs G was due to fly back to the UK from a holiday she injured her back.  She 
and her very young child stayed abroad  with relatives while her husband Mr K returned to 
the UK. 
Mr K asked SOL for help both before  and after Mrs G returned  home.  In brief summary he 
was asked to keep all receipts for medical  expenses  and Mrs Gs flight home  and then 
submit a claim. 
But SOL turned down Mrs Gs claim for various  reasons including lack of medical evidence  
and because shed  stayed abroad  more  than 30 days after the policy  ended, which meant  
she was no longer covered under the policy. After she complained  SOL agreed to reconsider 
the claim in part and to pay £150  compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mrs G didnt 
think this was enough and pointed out shed paid for business class  seats.  
Our investigator recommended SOL pay for a one-way flight  from the destination abroad to 
the UK, but only based on an economy fare (as this was the cover available under the 
policy). He thought  £150 compensation was enough. Mrs G asked for a review, so the 
complaints come to me. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold it.
From the evidence Ive seen I think SOL gave  Mrs G a poor level of service. Mr K was acting 
on her behalf following  her injury. SOLs investigations confirmed that he contacted SOL 
before the date she was due to return.  
Ive listened to the two calls SOL has sent us, one made to SOL shortly after Mrs Gs original 
return date and one around a month after she was due to return. Mr K explained  both in 
those calls and in emails  that he was looking to SOL for help and guidance. Hed had trouble 
getting through to the correct number. He said hed been bounced around between  SOLs  
claim agent and its assistance  agent.  
Mr K explained he wanted  to know  what to do about booking Mrs Gs flight home. Shed 
miss the original flight home and the airline just told him to contact his travel insurer,  which  
he did. He explained  that he was worried about  booking the flights  without checking with the 
insurer first. And he said that based on his research it might be better  to book a return flight  
Ref: DRN15780702which seemed to be cheaper  than a single flight (and Mrs G has given SOL details of the 
difference in cost). It seems to me Mrs G, through Mr K, was acting as if she was uninsured 
and keeping her loss to a minimum.
From the calls and emails Ive seen  it seems to me that SOL offered Mrs G very minimal 
assistance. The tone of the calls Ive listened  to were, in my view,  fairly unhelpful and 
disinterested on SOLs  part  despite Mr K explaining he was so concerned  about  being 
bounced around different companies  and clearly seeking SOLs  help and guidance. 
SOL essentially just told Mr K to keep receipts and to obtain  a medical report. He did that 
from the time of Mrs Gs original injury.  But Ive not seen  anything to warn  him that SOL 
would only cover Mrs G for 30 days, or that it would need further medical  reports  before it 
authorised her return flight to the UK. I appreciate  SOL has since  agreed  to reconsider the 
claim without  reference  to this policy exclusion.  But its not clear to me whether SOL has 
since made any payment  to Mrs G for her claim. The parties might like to comment  on that in 
their responses to this decision. 
I accept the policy says that SOL will pay only for an economy return  flight  unless it is 
medically necessary  for a higher grade flight and authorised by SOL.  Theres no medical 
evidence that business class was necessary. And I can see that Mr K didnt specifically ask 
about business class flights.  
But Ive also taken into account that SOL was fairly  unhelpful to Mr K, and didnt do anything  
to help him arrange for Mrs Gs flight home. It was only on page 28 of the 52 page  policy  that 
SOL said a return economy flight would be covered, unless a higher grade flight  was 
medically necessary.  But SOL didnt explain this important point to Mr K even though hed 
specifically asked it about arranging a flight home. 
Theres no evidence it was medically  necessary for business class flights. But Mrs G had 
suffered a back injury  and was travelling with a young child. The medical report  says she 
needed complete  bed rest during her recovery. It wouldnt be unusual  for a doctor to 
recommend business  class seats  (which have  more leg room and generally recline further) 
for someone  with a back injury. SOLs failure  to explain  the importance  of obtaining medical 
reports meant there was no consideration of this issue. Overall, having  weighed up all the 
evidence in these  specific circumstances, I dont think  its fair for SOL to pay only for an 
economy class flight to the UK. 
Mr K clearly  explained to SOL that a return flight was more  economical than a single flight at 
the time he booked it. And in any event Mr K told SOL that was what  he intended to do, and 
why that was. SOL hasnt shown that a one-way flight would have been  cheaper.  I think Mr K 
booked the most economical flight based  on what hed been  told by SOL.
So I think its fair for SOL to pay Mrs G the sterling cost that she paid for the return flight to 
the UK, on the basis it was a lower price  than a single fare and because Mr K explained 
thats what he intended to do on her behalf.  SOL should also pay the non-sterling  transaction  
fee shown on Mrs Gs credit card statement. It should then add simple  interest at 8% from 
the date of claim to the date it pays Mrs G. 
Mrs G would have been entitled to reasonable additional accommodation costs, but stayed 
with family.  So theres no additional claim there,  as she minimised  her losses.  
Ref: DRN15780703I dont think £150  compensation  goes far enough.  I cant award compensation for Mr Ks 
distress, because hes not covered  under the policy. Hes not what  we call an eligible 
complainant under  our rules. But I think this matter  has had an impact on Mrs G, given the 
poor service she received  both when abroad  and after returning home. Shes not received  
the benefits of the travel  insurance  she paid to receive. She was told her claim wasnt  
covered because shed been  away for more  than 30 days, but SOL didnt explain this 
important exclusion to her or that it would need  to authorise a longer stay. This was despite 
Mr K contacting SOL on several occasions,  the last one being  one month  after his first call to 
explain her situation.
I think a moderate  award  is appropriate  and I am minded to award £300 for distress  and 
inconvenience caused by SOLs overall handling of the assistance request and claim.  Mrs G 
says shes not banked the £150 cheque that SOL sent her, so it might  be sensible for SOL to 
cancel that cheque and (if Mrs G accepts  my final decision) for it to issue a new payment to 
her.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K responded to say that the experience had been extremely difficult  and draining. Theyd 
not known about the small print the insurance companies would hide behind or the poor 
level of service offered.  They had nothing more to add, as theyd done all they could to 
minimise Mrs Gs claim. Mr K had pleaded  with them  for help and guidance but was 
bounced around, which felt like tactics not to deal with his problem. He thanked us for 
understanding the huge financial impact on their young family.
SOL responded to say that the policy term regarding economy travel was in clear language, 
and not hidden in any way. It was on page  28 only because thats where  it outlined  the cover  
for this type of loss. Its not reasonable to expect the insured person to read the section of 
the policy they are claiming under. As a counter  proposal SOL said it would pay the business 
class flight in full. But it didnt consider it reasonable to increase  the compensation and pay 
simple interest, given the time it had taken this service to deal with the complaint. SOL didnt 
accept this claim was covered, but thought its proposal was the fairest solution given the 
points made  in the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about the points raised  in response to my provisional decision.  But 
having done so Im still of the view that the findings  I reached in that decision were fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr K telephoned SOL specifically to ask about  the cover available under the policy. He 
wasnt an insurance expert, and I remain of the view that it was reasonable of SOL to explain 
the cover  available to him so he could make  an informed  decision. So I dont agree with SOL 
the flight costs shouldnt be covered. 
That said,  I do appreciate  SOL has now offered  to pay the return business class  flight,  with 
£150 compensation. But it doesnt think it should have to increase the compensation or pay 
simple interest because of the time the case has been with this service.
Ref: DRN15780704The compensation award was specifically for SOLs  failings in dealing with the assistance 
request and in handling  the claim. I consider £300  is fair for the reasons  Ive already given. 
I see the point  SOL is making about  the interest award. But the fact remains that SOL could 
have paid Mrs Gs claim at the time it was made, and I think  it would have been fair to do so 
for the reasons Ive given.  Shes  been out of pocket  since  that time,  as I know SOL 
recognises. And its fair for interest to be paid from the date of claim, in line with our usual  
approach.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days of the date we tell it Mrs G accepts my final decision I require Society of 
Lloyds to pay Mrs G the sterling cost to her of buying  the new business class return flight to 
the UK and the non-sterling transaction fee shown on her credit card statement. It must add 
to the payment simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date of claim until the date 
SOL pays  her. If SOL has not already done  so, it is entitled to deduct any applicable policy 
excess from the claim payment. I also require  Society of Lloyds to pay Mrs G a total of £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Society of Lloyds  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1578070