K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complaint is that she received unsuitable investment advice from an advisor working 
for Quilter Financial Services Ltd.  The ER Network  is an appointed representative (AR) of 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd.  Mrs B says she was advised to transfer her final salary 
pension to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) and to then invest in unregulated 
investments.  
At the time of the disputed advice the firm was trading as Intrinsic Financial Planning  Ltd.  
For the sake of clarity I will refer to the firm as Intrinsic in the rest of this decision.    
background
In mid 2009  Mrs B transferred her final salary pension to a SIPP operated  by Berkeley  
Burke.  After the transfer was complete she made investments in products operated  by the 
SGG Group and Global  Forestry (Belem  Sky).
In 2012 the SGG investments went into administration.  This prompted Mrs B to complain.  
Intrinsic said that no advice had been given by the AR.  The AR also operated  an 
unconnected, non regulated firm called Vita Investment Planning (Vita).  It said Mrs B had 
confirmed that Vita had arranged the investments  in SGG and Global Forestry but hadnt 
given any advice.
The complaint was looked at by an adjudicator.  He concluded that this is not a complaint  
that we can look at.  Given Mrs Bs lack of investment experience  he thought  it was more 
likely than not that advice had been  given to Mrs B.  However, he considered  that the advice 
had been given by Vita rather than the AR.  Because of this he didnt think Intrinsic  was 
responsible.
Mrs Bs solicitor  didnt agree with the adjudicator  and so the complaint was passed  to me.  I 
didnt agree with the adjudicator.  I issued a provisional decision on 24 June 2019 setting out 
my reasons.   I also explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld.  I said:
I will consider our jurisdiction in three steps:
What is the complaint?
What if any regulated activities is Mrs B complaining  about?
Is Intrinsic  responsible?
Mrs Bs solicitor  has set out her complaint in the following  terms in a letter to Intrinsic of 
25 June 2013:
Our client was advised by you to transfer  their pension savings into a SIPP.  Your  adviser 
was fully aware that our client was considering investing in SGG once the pension  transfer to
the SIPP was complete.  Indeed, the whole process  was directed toward this outcome.
We have considered papers provided to us by our client  and conclude the following:
There is no (or no adequate) assessment of the suitability  of the SGG investment.
There is no (or no adequate) assessment of the risks of the SGG investment.
If the advice were suitable (which we believe it is not) the fund is over-exposed to this 
type of investment in any event.
The benefits of the ceding scheme have not been replaced.
Ref: DRN13422562The creation  of the SIPP was only necessary to facilitate the SGG investment.
Charges (upon exit from the former scheme, and upon entry into the SIPP and then 
upon entry  to the new investment) have  been  incurred unnecessarily upon transfer.
It is our view that our client has suffered the following  losses:
1. Loss of benefits on the pension transfer (including any exit penalties incurred)
2. Loss due to your negligent advice in investing the SIPP monies with SGG
3. The costs of establishing the SIPP and commissions paid in relation to the SGG 
investment.
The complaint that has been made  is that Mrs B was advised to transfer her defined  benefit 
pension to a SIPP.  The purpose of the transfer  was to enable the investment in the SGG  
product and Global  Forestry to be made.  The solicitors have also said that negligent advice 
to invest the SIPP monies  in SGG  was also given.   
At the time the complaint was made the Global Forestry investment had not failed and so it 
was not specifically mentioned in the complaint.   I will discuss this point further later in this 
decision.
A defined  benefit  pension  scheme is a specified  investment as per article  82(3)  of the 
Regulated Activities  order  2001 (RAO)  but only in relation  to transfer advice.   A SIPP  is a 
specified investment  as per article 82 of the RAO.  Advice to transfer from the defined 
benefit scheme to a SIPP would be regulated investment advice as per article 53 of the 
RAO.
There is not a lot of information available about  the SGG or Global Forestry investments  but 
based on the evidence I have seen  it seems likely they were unregulated collective 
investment schemes.   A collective investment scheme is a specified investment as per 
article 81 of the RAO.   Advice about a collective investment  scheme would also be regulated 
investment advice (article  53 of the RAO).     
Whether advice was given and exactly what happened to bring about the pension  transfer  
and the underlying SIPP investments is disputed.  Before establishing what, if any, 
responsibility Intrinsic has for the actions of its AR I will first make various findings about  
what actually happened.  
It is not in dispute  that a number of meetings  were  held between Mr and Mrs B and the 
adviser (putting  aside  the capacity in which he was acting).  The  original purpose of the 
meeting between Mr and Mrs B and the adviser was to discuss a mortgage.  At the same 
time as Mrs B was transferring her pension, Mr B was also switching a personal pension to a 
SIPP and then making unregulated investments in the SIPP.
The upshot  of these meetings was that Mrs B transferred her defined  benefit scheme to a 
SIPP and then made investments in SGG and Global Forestry.   The  purpose of the pension  
transfer was to enable investment in the unregulated investments.
In addition to working  for the AR the adviser  also had a non-regulated business   Vita 
Investment Planning.   
the advisers version of events is as follows:
Ref: DRN13422563The adviser has provided the following  comments.   The comments were made in response 
to a series of questions  asked by the adjudicator.
The adjudicator asked the adviser  to explain the various references  to the ER Network on 
different forms.  The advisers  answer was:  
At the time I was unsure how a non  regulated  application should be completed and also I 
was told that in order for a SIPP provider to speak to me I would have to mention  a regulated  
adviser name. Upon  checking with Berkeley Burke they confirmed we had received the 
incorrect information and new documents were issued. 
After the confirmation from Berkeley Burke the welcome letter was amended correctly and I 
attach a copy that was given  to me by Mrs B that she received clearly stating that an 
application from your non-regulated  agentat  Vita.
When the SIPP applications were originally submitted to Berkeley Burke they were  also 
submitted with ER Network noted as the adviser  although after the event this was 
changed.
The adviser also said:
I did help clients complete their SIPP application  forms  and we were at the time told to put 
as the designated IFA ER Network as it would mean that Berkeley Burke would speak to us 
if a client had a question etc. It was administrative  only. Clients  are also aware that ER 
Network is not an IFA but an appointed representative of Intrinsic using the restrictive advice 
route. As stated previously we received incorrect information regarding this from Berkeley 
Burke.
As part of the application  process  for the SGG  product  on 28 September 2008 Mr B signed 
terms of business  for Vita Investment Planning.  These said the following:
VIP is an independent company dedicated  to introducing  Individuals  and businesses to a 
range of products and services  from different  providers. VIP is an agent of TMJG whose role 
is to act as conduit  between  the product providers and VIP. TMJG  and VIP are not providers 
of any products or services and can offer no advice, assurance,  or recommendation in 
relation to any product or service.
(TMJG is The Marcus James Group)
VIP solely  offers a non-advisory service which provides customers with information to assist 
them in selecting  products  they feel are most appropriate for their needs.  VIP does not 
attempt to offer you any financial advice either about the product  itself or the suitability of the 
product for your particular financial and other circumstances. All products and services are 
offered free from financial  advice and are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority  
(FSA), neither are they considered to be unregulated collective  investment  schemes.  
Nothing in any of the documentation/information  provided to you shall be deemed to 
constitute advice  or a recommendation  to purchase  a particular product or service. It is 
important that you seek independent financial advice, especially if you are in any doubt as to 
the suitability of the product or service. Investments into products purchased through VIP are 
not covered by the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme.
VIP will receive  commission  from TMJG when you use one of their provider's  products or 
services.
Ref: DRN13422564The adviser has also pointed out that all of the complaints brought  to this service are being  
made with the assistance of the same solicitor.  He  suggested this raised the possibility of 
responses being coordinated.    
Mr and Mrs Bs version of events is as follows:
We were advised by [the adviser] of ER Networks about moving  our pension schemes into a 
SIPP scheme by investing  in the Sustainable Growth  Group.  [the adviser] also advised us 
that this was not a high risk investment and it would be far more beneficial  to myself and my 
wife than keeping  our existing pension plans.
We were both under the impression we were  being advised by [the adviser] of ER Networks.
At no time during our pension transfer  were we aware that [the adviser] was working on his 
own behalf for his own unregulated company Vita Investment Planning.  We have used 
ER Network for over 10 years for financial advice and always  dealt with [the adviser].
We would  like to make the point clear  we were coached in completing all documents 
regarding our investments  by [the adviser].
Myself and my wife were at a mortgage  consultation  with [the adviser] after which  he brought  
the subject of switching our pension plans.
[The adviser] encouraged us to become involved in re-investing  our pension schemes into a 
SIPP fund and we took his advice.  Due to our inexperience in investments if [the adviser] 
had never  approached us would never have been involved in this type of pension fund.
Mrs Bs recollections are clearly  at odds with the Vita Investment Planning  terms of business 
that she signed.
Based on what the adviser has said I am satisfied that his actions in bringing about  the 
setting up of the SIPP amounted to the regulated  activity of bringing about  deals  in 
investments as per article 25(2) of the RAO.   He says that he helped fill out the forms and 
submitted the applications to the SIPP operator.   I have seen no evidence that the adviser  
was involved in arranging  the transfer  of Mrs Bs defined benefit  pension.
The adviser has said that originally he dealt with Berkeley  Burke as an AR because  he 
thought that was required.  However,  I dont think his attempts to retrospectively alter the 
capacity in which he was working are valid.   I am satisfied that in arranging  the SIPP  the 
adviser was acting for the AR.  
Whether regulated  investment advice was given and if so which  entity gave it is less clear  
cut.  
The adviser has said that he did not receive  any payment either from Berkley  Burke or SGG.  
However, as the extract from the Vita terms of business quoted above makes clear,  the 
adviser would  receive payment from The Marcus James Group  for any unregulated 
investments made.  The adviser was clearly incentivised to bring  about  the SGG and 
Global Forestry investments.  Without the pension transfer there  could have been  no SGG or 
Global Forestry investments.  
Ref: DRN13422565There is documentary evidence (the Vita Investment Planning terms of business)  that no 
advice was given  in respect of the SGG and Global Forestry  products  and that this 
investment came about as a result  of the actions  of Vita.  There  is no contemporaneous  
documentary evidence  of the involvement of Vita in the pension  transfer.   
When Mrs B completed the paperwork for the transfer of her defined benefit scheme to the 
SIPP she was required to confirm that she had received  advice.  She confirmed the 
following:
I confirm that I have received independent  financial  advice from my own IFA.  I understand 
this advice will not be paid for by the company.
 
It is clear from the Vita terms of business that it was the understanding of the adviser  that the 
SGG and Global Forestry  products, not being CIS, were not investments.   It would have 
been the advisers understanding that any advice, if given, or arranging  of the purchase 
would not have been a regulated activity  and could legitimately have been carried out by 
Vita.  
On the other hand the adviser would have known  that pension transfer and SIPP advice 
could only have been given by a regulated  adviser.
The FCAs perimeter guidance (PERG) manual section 8.28 provides commentary helpful in 
deciding whether regulated advice has been given  - as opposed to just information.
In the FCA's view,  advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser.  In effect, 
it is a recommendation  as to a course of action. Information, on the other hand, involves 
statements of fact or figures.
Regulated advice  includes any communication  with the customer  which,  in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information  and is objectively  
likely to influence the customers decision whether  or not to buy or sell.
An explicit  recommendation to buy or sell is likely to be advice. However, something falling 
short of an explicit recommendation can be advice too. Any significant element of evaluation, 
value judgment  or persuasion is likely to mean that advice is being given.
A person can give advice  without saying (or implying)  categorically that the customer should 
invest. The adviser does not have to offer a definitive recommendation as to whether the 
customer should go ahead.
For example, saying the following can still be advice:
this investment is a very good  buy but it is your decision whether or not to buy; or
this investment is a very good  buy but I am going to leave it to you to decide  because I dont 
know your up-to-date financial position.
In the FCA's opinion,  however, such information  may take on the nature of advice if the 
circumstances in which it is provided give it the force of a recommendation. For example:
a person may provide  information on a selected, rather than balanced,  basis  which  would 
tend to influence  the decision of the recipient.
Ref: DRN13422566This service has dealt with a number of complaints which are essentially identical to Mrs Bs 
complaint.  After meeting the adviser a number  of investors carried  out a series of 
transactions  the switch of a personal pension to a Berkeley Burke SIPP and a subsequent 
investment in SGG  and Global Forestry products.  All of the investors were inexperienced 
investors with relatively modest pension pots.   All of the consumers were existing clients  of 
the AR.
Whilst each case is decided on its own particular facts, I think  the fact that a number of 
investors carried out a series of identical transactions increases the probability  that these 
were advised transactions.  I dont think it likely that the mere provision of information would 
have resulted in so many investors making  identical transactions.  
None of the investors who carried  out the above  transactions were experienced investors.  In 
most cases the pension  represented the bulk of their savings   and hence would be very 
important to them.  I consider it very unlikely that such a group of investors would make 
these transactions  without  advice.   
The adviser would only be paid if Mrs B made the SGG  and Global Forestry investments   
which clearly incentivised  the AR to encourage Mr B to go ahead  with the pension transfer 
and the SGG investment.  
The pension fund represented the bulk of Mrs Bs pension provision.   It also provided a 
guaranteed income unlike a defined  contribution  scheme.  It was clearly  very important to 
Mrs B and her retirement planning.  In my view this further increases the likelihood  that 
Mrs B would not have  acted without advice.     
For the reasons  given  above my provisional conclusion is that Mr B was advised  to transfer 
her defined benefit pension to a SIPP by the AR. 
It is possible that advice  was also given on the SGG  product and Global Forestry.  However, 
I dont think ultimately it makes a difference  to the outcome  of this complaint whether the 
SGG/Global Forestry  advice was given or not - so I make no finding  on this point.  I am 
satisfied that when advising Mrs B to make the pension transfer the AR knew that the 
intended investment  to be held in the SIPP  was the SGG and Global Forestry  product.
Is Intrinsic responsible for the SIPP advice given by the AR?
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
Ref: DRN13422567So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for 
Positive Solutions (for some purposes)  was held to be engaging in a recognisably 
independent business of his own  a property  investment scheme.     
Vita Investment  Planning  might be a recognisably independent business in respect of the 
SGG advice.  However, there is nothing to connect  this business to the pension  switch 
advice.  As  set out above, my conclusion is that this advice  was given by the ER Network.
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
At the relevant time s.39 of FSMA said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal (Intrinsic) is required to accept responsibly  for that business  
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear  that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
generic business of a prescribed description.  I will first deal with the meaning prescribed 
business and before dealing with the part of point  
Ref: DRN13422568what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in February 2010.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  
Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 RAO).  It does not 
mean advising Mrs B on particular investments. 
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised to carry out the above regulated activities  in this 
case.
What was the prescribed business Intrinsic  accepted responsibility  for in this case?
The s.39 Agreement between Intrinsic and The ER Network expressly incorporated the 
compliance manual.  The agreement  itself said:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined  as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement
The compliance manual was more  helpful on this point.  It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
Ref: DRN13422569b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, Members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted The ER Network to carry on was arranging  
deals, advising on investments (and mortgages  but that is not relevant here)  and agreeing to 
arrange deals  and advise on investments.   Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for that business 
as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did authorise The ER Network to advise on investments, arrange 
deals in investments  and agree to do both.  This was the (relevant) prescribed business 
Intrinsic authorised The ER Network to carry on and agreed to accept responsibility for. 
But as I have said above, Intrinsic says it put limits on the business it accepts responsibly 
for.  In  effect it says it authorises investment advice  but only if certain conditions  are met, 
such as the adviser  passing a relevant exam, or the investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk,  HHJ Waksman said the following  (where  D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge 
said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.  
Then the judge  said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
Ref: DRN134225610on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) 
agreed with the above.  In that case the network  principal  had argued  that it was not 
responsible for advice  to invest in an investment in which  it did not authorise the appointed 
representative to deal.  The judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenets behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as having  such  
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it follows  that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties  only.  Does 
that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way?  The  answer to that question  is no 
because of the words  part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above  really considered this point.  But  it was dealt with 
in the most recent case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC 2834.  In 
that case the judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
ARs actual authority
Ref: DRN134225611137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Grieg in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingrams evidence  was that he knew  that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
Ref: DRN134225612what does all this mean?
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes  a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority.   And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely connected to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.   
my view  about  the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement in this case:
advice restricted to approved  products
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  includes  the following:
2.1 Intrinsics Scope  of Permission
Intrinsic is authorised by the FSA to carry out certain activities.   This is referred  to as Part IV 
permission.  All regulated firms have to obtain a permission, but the scope of their particular  
permission may include one of several regulated activities depending  on the business of the 
firm.  
The regulated activities for which Intrinsic has approval is as follows:
a)Arranging (brining about) deals  in;
b)Making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)Advising on; and
d)Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated  investments
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  on those  activities 
detailed above (dependent  upon any restrictions inherent in your contract); these  are referred 
to as the Scope of Permissions.
All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised  regime on 1 June 2005.   As an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels and product 
ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
2.4 Restricted activities
Intricnsics scope of permission does not allow appointed representatives or advisers to carry 
out certain areas of business.  Below  we detail areas where restrictions apply.
2.4.1 Non-Advised Business
Intrinsic believes that advice is always  necessary,  and our sales processes  have been 
developed bearing this in mind.  Although there is scope within the FSA rules  to operate 
certain non-advised  processes, Intrinsic have chosen not to take advantage of this.
2.4.2 Products requiring  additional authorisation.
As an appointed representative firm or adviser  with Intrinsic there are some restrictions on 
activities relating  to certain products.  Details  of these can be found  in the Licensing  section.
Ref: DRN1342256132.4.3 Acting  as Trustee, Power of attorney, or Executor of a Will
You are prohibited from acting for your client as Trustee; Power  of Attorney; or Executor of a 
Will
2.4.4 Dual Authorisation
You are not permitted to have dual authorisation and be directly by the FSA as well as 
through Intrinsic
2.4.5 Dealing with Overseas Clients

8.6 The Sales Process
The advice process is substantially the same for all areas of FCA regulation.  There  are slight 
differences between business areas.  Please refer to guidance  in the Designated Investment, 
Mortgage and Pure Protection and General Insurance Documents for details of the specific 
process requirement for these business areas:
Contacting the client or potential client;
Providing specified information at the outset;
Undertaking  a Know your client  exercise, usually  involving some form of fact find;
Research to recommend  a product which is suited to the clients  needs at that time;
A recommendation (which the client may reject and a subsequent recommendation 
may be made);
Completion of the application form as a sale is made.
8.6.1 Execution only
An execution  only case is one where the client requires no advice as they have already 
decided on the exact contract they require.
Intrinsic firmly believe that full advice should be given to clients  in all circumstances.  
However, if you do come across a client who matches the above circumstances you should 
seek approval  of Compliance before proceeding with business on that basis.
The above  helps to explain the context  of the s.39 agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER 
Network.  
Some points to note are that Intrinsic has permission to advise on all investments but has 
chosen to offer products  from a limited range.  And the AR is restricted to the product range 
chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsics ARs are however obliged to give advice and may not just sell on an execution  only 
basis.  Advice involves a process that includes getting to know  the clients financial situation  
in order to give suitable advice.  And in turn this means that sometimes  advice involves the 
recommendation to end one investment in order to start another.
This is in effect what has happened in this complaint  the recommendation to end the 
existing defined benefit pension and to replace  it with a Berkeley Burke SIPP.  The 
Berkeley Burke SIPP wasnt an Intrinsic approved products.  
However, the advice  to surrender the existing pension and switch to the SIPP are 
inextricably linked.  Without the surrender  advice  there could have been no advice to take 
out the SIPP.  Where  two pieces of advice are inextricably linked then they in effect form a 
single piece of advice.  This was made  clear  in the case of Tenet  Connect  v Financial  
Ref: DRN134225614Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin).  If any part of the advice is the 
responsibility of the principal then the whole  of the advice will also be.
So in this case as the Principal authorised The ER Network  to give advice on the final salary 
scheme.  This advice  was inextricably linked to the advice to take out the SIPP with 
Berkley Burke.  Because of this it forms a single  piece  of advice for which Intrinsic is 
responsible for in its entirety  because it authorised part of the advice (the final salary 
pension advice).
special process  for replacement business
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes a special process for replacement business.   Intrinsic 
classifies replacement business as when an adviser  recommends that a customer  replaces 
an existing contract with a new one. The Compliance Manual says it is essential  that for all 
replacement business  the following principles are followed  by the adviser:
Research the exiting policy  and fully understand the features and options available.
Carefully compare the features, options and charges of both policies.
Fully explain and record all negative aspects of the replacement to the client.
Ensure  all the disadvantages  as well as the advantages are fully explained  in the reason for 
recommendation letter  and explain  what factors made you decide that the replacement was in 
the clients  best interests.
The Compliance Manual goes on to say:
Some customers  may have a pre-conceived  idea about what they want  to do and it is easy  
for the adviser to allow  these  cases to become  customer driven.   However,  the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  (FOS) takes a dim view of these  cases.  Their view is often 
that unless the customer has been specifically  advised not to do something, then the advisers 
input is viewed as being a recommendation.
This means  that you need to be clear  about what the most suitable course of action is.  The 
reason for recommendation needs to be absolutely clear about what  was advised, 
irrespective of whether  the customer intends to follow that advice.
In this case Intrinsic recommended moving Mrs Bs existing  pension to a SIPP  with 
Berkley Burke.  Put another way Intrinsic recommended  the replacement  of an existing  
pension with another. The replacement  business  process should therefore  have been used 
and it appears that it wasnt.   In my view it is arguable that the standard  required by the 
Compliance Manual  was not reached  because:
It is not clear the existing policies were researched fully.
The features of the existing policies were not fully and clearly analysed  and recorded 
in a recommendation report in particular the existing investment options were  not 
fully and clearly considered.  
Nor were  the existing  charges  analysed and compared to the charges of the SIPP. 
If the adviser  failed  to meet  the standard required in the Compliance Manual would this 
mean the adviser acted contrary to his authority and that Intrinsic was not responsible for the 
advice?
Ref: DRN134225615In my view the answer to this question ought to be self-evident.   Can a principal really  only 
be responsible  for advice  if it achieves  a certain  quality and is presented a certain format?  
This seems contrary to the purpose  of s.39 and wrong.
If the adviser  is authorised to give advice about SIPPs it follows  that he will need to be able 
to consider and advise  upon the advantages  and disadvantages of the clients existing 
pension provision if he has any. Requiring  the adviser to document  that advice in a certain 
way is so closely related  to the activities for which permission  is given  that a breach of such 
a requirement is only an inter se matter.  It applies only as between  the principal  and the 
appointed representative.  It does not mean the appointed representative acts outside  the 
scope of his authority.  
This type of restriction - as it applies in this case  is either  an example of certain duties 
needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense 
Network.  Or  it is closely  analogous to such duties.  In either event as explained in the 
Anderson case a breach of that procedural requirement does not mean  that the transaction 
in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is 
taken.
So if the adviser breached the requirements  in the Compliance Manual relating to the 
process for replacement business in my view this factor does not mean Intrinsic is not 
responsible for the advice given.
special requirements  for pension transfers
Advice to transfer  from an occupational pension to a SIPP,  is a pension transfer according to 
regulators rules.   In the Compliance  Manual  the adviser is required to pass Intrinsics  
pensions transfer  test before advising on pension transfers.  I understand that the adviser  
had the necessary qualifications and had been  approved by Instrinsic to give pension 
transfer advice.
my view  on whether the complaint is against Intrinsics appointed representative:
For all the reasons discussed above  it is my view that this is a complaint against Intrinsics  
appointed representative acting in its capacity as Intrinsics appointed representative.  The  
complaint relates  to business Intrinsic accepted responsibility for and Intrinsic is subject to 
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service for complaints about that business.
my provisional decision  on jurisdiction
My provisional decision is that this is a complaint that this service can look at.
In the course  of my consideration of the jurisdiction aspects of the complaint I have been 
able to reach a provisional conclusion on the merits  of the complaint.  I will now therefore go 
on to explain my provisional conclusion.
The merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN134225616The complaint I will consider is that The ER Network acting as an AR of Intrinsic gave Mrs B 
unsuitable advice  to transfer a defined benefit pensions to a SIPP.
When giving  SIPP advice,  consideration must be given, if known, to the investments to be 
held within  the SIPP.  This has been  made  clear  by a number of statements made  by the 
FCA.  For example on January 2013 the FCA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Whilst this was issued  after the advice was given to Mrs B, I consider it was not a new 
requirement of the FCA but rather a reminder  of what the rules  in force at the time of the 
advice were.  
Therefore, when giving  the advice to transfer  the defined benefit pension to the SIPP,  the 
adviser should have considered the investments  to be held within the SIPP.  However, to do 
so would require  the AR to know what the intended investments to be held within  the SIPP 
were.  It is clear  from the ARs version  of events that he was aware that the purpose  of the 
transfer to the SIPP  was to enable investment in SGG products and Global Forestry.
There are three elements to determining suitability.  These are set out in COBS 9.2.  A 
recommended investment: 
 meets the investors investment objectives
 is such that the investor is able financially to bear any related investment  risks 
consistent with his investment  objectives
 is such that the investor has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio
Ref: DRN134225617Nothing was formally established at the time of the advice about the level of risk that Mrs B 
was prepared to take.  Apart from her pensions Mrs B had no other  investment other than 
modest cash savings.
This was Mrs Bs main  pension provision and as such I consider that she was not in a 
position to bear the very high level of risk associated with the SIPP.  An  investor who places 
their pension into a SIPP  for the express purpose of investing in unregulated, high risk 
investments is taking a very substantial risk.  I consider that Mrs B did not have  the capacity 
to bear this level of risk with her pension.  Any significant loss on these investments would 
have a serious impact  on her retirement income.   The increase in risk was even more 
pronounced because Mrs B was foregoing  a guaranteed income to invest  in the SIPP.   
I am also not persuaded that Mrs B had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved with the SIPP (by virtue of the investments to be held within  it).  The SGG and 
Global Forestry investments were unusual high risk investments and the risks associated  
with them  were well outside  what a typical retail investor would encounter.   
This conclusion is consistent with the comments made by the judge  in the case  of Burns  v 
FCA Upper Tribunal [2018] UKUT 0246 (TCC):
It would be readily  apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an unsophisticated  
retail investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by interests in a defined 
benefit scheme or in a personal pension invested in a spread of traditional investments, to 
switch his benefits into a SIPP which was to be wholly invested in either a single or very 
small number of inherently risky overseas property  investments was a wholly unsuitable  
course of action for that investor to take.  
In my view all three of the factors in deciding suitability  were not met. Even  if Mrs B was 
prepared to take a high level of risk with her pension,  and to be clear  Im not persuaded that 
she was, to place  all her pension fund into such high risk investments was not consistent 
with her circumstances.  In such a situation the adviser should have advised against doing  
this.  I consider it reasonable to assume  that if Mrs B had been advised not to go ahead with 
the SIPP and the SGG/Global Forestry investments she would have heeded  this advice.
The FCA conduct of business rules (COBS 19.1) sets out additional requirements for the 
giving of pension  transfer advice.  None  of these requirements were met by the AR.  Most  
importantly the FCA required advisers  to have a starting assumption that such  advice would 
not be suitable.
There is some documentary  evidence both from around the time of the investment and from 
some time afterwards that would appear  to contradict the above  conclusions.  
The group of investors who made  the same transactions  as Mrs B, as part of the SIPP  
application process completed  high net worth  and certified sophisticated investor certificates.   
Whilst the forms for Mr B are available no forms for Mrs B have been provided.  As they 
were a requirement of the SIPP operator I consider it more likely than not that these forms 
were also in fact signed by Mrs B
However, I am satisfied  that neither of this forms are accurate descriptions of Mrs B.  It was 
clearly unwise of Mrs B to sign documents  confirming  things that were  untrue  although 
investors sometimes do.  Often  this will be to gain access to what  they perceive to be 
Ref: DRN134225618attractive investments  that are not available to the general public.  The SGG/Global Forestry 
investments were described  to investors  in very positive terms.
However, the adviser was clearly aware  that these  forms had been signed  by Mrs B, as he 
returned them to Berkeley Burke.  It would  have been apparent  to the adviser  that these 
forms were inaccurate (he had provided financial advice to Mrs B previously).  These forms 
were a requirement of the SIPP operator and were required to allow the investment in SGG 
products.  The adviser has obligations  to his clients including  an obligation to act in their best 
interests.  It is hard to see how sending  obviously inaccurate forms to the SIPP  operator was 
acting in Mrs Bs best interests.  I consider that at this point the adviser  should  have declined 
to act for Mrs B in respect of the transfer  to the SIPP.  Given  the fact that these  were  
obviously unreliable  forms I dont think they change  my view on suitability.
As part of potential legal action against  a trustee  associated with the SGG investment a form 
was completed by Mrs B.  Mr B was asked what level of risk he understood the investments 
had  to which she wrote n/a.
She was also asked who advised  you to transfer your pension?  Mrs B wrote  direct.
This would suggest  that Mrs B was not advised  to transfer her pension to the SIPP.
The background to the completion of this questionnaire was that it was part of an action 
contemplated against a trustee  associated  with the SGG investments.  I understand that this 
action was suggested to investors by the AR and that the AR funded the initial cost of the 
action.  In such circumstances  I can understand why the AR might  wish to influence  the 
content of the document and in particular not to leave it open to possible complaints or legal 
action.  I therefore do not place  any great weight on this document.
My provisional conclusion is that the advice to transfer a defined  benefit pension to the SIPP 
for the purpose  of investing in the SGG product and Global Forestry was unsuitable.
Fair compensation
To establish fair compensation  for Mrs B Intrinsic should review  this transfer in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
I also consider that losing a significant proportion of her pension would have been upsetting 
for Mrs B.  I propose to award her 500 to compensate her for this.   
Mrs B had nothing to add.
The firm confirmed that it didnt agree  with my provisional decision but had nothing further to 
add.  It asked for confirmation that the pension transfer to the SIPP  was in fact from a final 
salary pension scheme.  An investigator has since  provided the firm with the requested 
information.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN134225619As neither party has anything further  to add I confirm that my final decision is the same as 
the provisional decision set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I order  Quilter  Financial Services  Ltd to pay 
the redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1342256