K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited (MAS) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  when it paid ground  rent and service  charges to solicitors 
instructed by the freeholders/management company of her leasehold property. She is asking  
for the charges to be removed  and for MAS to pay her compensation. The complaint has 
been brought on Miss Gs behalf  by Mr W. For ease of reference I will refer to Miss G 
throughout.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I will not set out in detail whats happened. There are various  reasons  for this. First of all, the 
investigator set out the timeline of events in his letter dated  12 July 2019,  and both parties 
have a copy of that letter,  so I dont  need to repeat all the details here. In addition,  our 
decisions are published and so I must also take care to ensure that nothing  in this decision  
will lead to Miss G being  identified. Consequently  I will keep the background to the complaint 
very brief.
The issue  in this complaint is very simple: was it reasonable for MAS to pay approximately 
£6,600 of unpaid service  charges and £1,700  of unpaid ground rent after receiving demands  
for payment.
Briefly, Miss G owns a leasehold property on which she has a mortgage. The mortgage was 
originally taken out with another  lender, but is now owned by MAS. The mortgaged property 
is not Miss Gs main residence. 
For some  years Miss G has been in dispute with the management company of the block 
where her flat is situated over service charges. A previous complaint to us was upheld in 
Miss Gs favour in April 2018  because  she said she was applying to have the county court  
judgement (CCJ) for the unpaid service charges set aside. 
In October  2018 MAS was sent a CCJ on behalf of the management company for £6,636.33, 
and a notice under Section 146 of the Law of Property Act 1925. MAS also received a 
Section146 notice  and a CCJ from solicitors to pay £1,702.18.
Under the Law of Property Act 1925,  the freeholders are able to forfeit the lease where there 
is a breach of the lease. A Section 146 notice is served by the freeholder  on the leaseholder 
and on any mortgagee (in this case,  MAS). It specifies the breach complained of (here it was 
Ref: DRN10866592unpaid sums  due to the freeholder or its agents), and the notice requires the leaseholder to 
remedy the breach  and pay compensation. The notice must give a reasonable amount of 
time for them to do so. 
If a lease is forfeited,  then it is cancelled and no longer exists. The implication of this for 
MAS is that it would  no longer hold any security, so it is a serious situation which MAS had 
to deal with.
MAS checked with the claimants  that the court  orders had not been  set aside and it was 
confirmed they had not. MAS paid these  amounts.  MAS  did not debit them  to the mortgage  
account but to the debt recovery costs account, to avoid any interest being charged on them.  
When MAS was able to speak to him, Mr W said that proceedings were  taking  place in the 
High Court,  where  Miss G had been granted a default judgement  against  the management 
company, but he thought this would  be appealed.  
MAS asked  Miss G to provide confirmation  within three months of the position on the legal 
proceedings. MAS said that if it didnt receive confirmation the dispute about  the fees was 
continuing, it would add the amount it had paid out for service charges, ground  rent and legal 
fees to the mortgage balance.
Miss G complained to us. The crux of the complaint is that Miss G says that MAS shouldnt 
have paid the fees as she is still challenging the judgements.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that MAS  had acted  in accordance with the account terms and conditions. Mr W, on behalf of 
Miss G, disagreed with the investigators findings. He said that The courts following this 
matter require funds  of £5k to process Miss Gs enforcement...the management companys 
agent have held this up through in the high court and the hearing is at the end of this 
month.(sic)
The complaint remains unresolved so it now falls to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Miss G and MAS,  including  all the court orders.
Its important to note that, although the Financial  Ombudsman Service  is an alternative to the 
court, we are not part of the judicial  system. This means we cant overturn, override or 
change anything a court has ordered.  
The account  terms and conditions allow MAS  to pay sums that are legitimately due and 
demanded in order  to preserve its security. A demand for payment pursuant to a CCJ,  along  
with a Section  146 notice, is on the face of it a legitimate  demand.
It seems  Miss G was granted a judgement in the High Court against the management 
company in June  2018 in proceedings which appear  to have been under the Protection from 
Harassment Act 1997. No other  context has been provided for that order. 
Ref: DRN10866593Im satisfied that, before paying the demands, MAS verified with the claimants that the CCJs 
had not been set aside,  and made attempts to contact Miss G to discuss  the matter.  Given 
the seriousness of the situation   where  MASs security was at risk due to the Section  146 
notices  Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for MAS to pay these  amounts.  
Im also satisfied that MAS is entitled  to debit the amounts  it paid out for unpaid  service 
charges, ground  rent and legal costs  to the mortgage account.  I think  MAS acted 
reasonably by saying it would  give Miss G three  months  to provide evidence about  any 
continuing court action  in relation to her dispute  over service charges and ground  rent. We 
are now 18 months on from then but Ive not seen  any court  orders to set aside the CCJs 
which are the subject of this complaint.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded MAS has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1086659