K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Mrs B complain  about the way The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc has dealt with their 
application for additional borrowing on their buy to let mortgage. Mr E and Mrs B would like 
the early repayment  charge waived to allow them  to move to another lender.
background
Mr E and Mrs B have a buy to let interest  only mortgage with TMW since 2015. The term is 
25 years  and is presently  on a mortgage product that expires  in May 2020. In August 2018 
they applied to TMW for £35,000 additional borrowing.  Following a valuation, TMW wrote to 
Mr E and Mrs B to say that they had done work to the property without its consent and in 
breach of their mortgage agreement. Following a review TMW realised that the work had 
been done before the mortgage was taken out and offered compensation to Mr E and Mrs B 
of £350 for its service  failures in how it dealt with this. 
Mr E and Mrs Bs application  for a further  loan was based on renovating  the property and 
they had to provide information  about  the building work on several occasions. TMW  then 
declined the application because it said that Mr E and Mrs B indicated  that they would move 
into the property  at some stage. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should 
be upheld as TMW was entitled to exercise  a commercial lending  decision based on its 
terms and conditions. Mr E and Mrs B disagree saying in summary that the reason TMW 
gave for refusing the mortgage was unreasonable and irrelevant. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E and Mrs B want to convert the garage and downstairs cloakroom in their buy to let 
property into a fourth bedroom  and shower  room.  They applied  for an additional loan but it 
was refused because  they indicated to TMW that they wanted  at some stage in the future to 
move into the property. Although Mr E and Mrs B say that such  a change of use isnt 
imminent I can see the difficulty that TMW faced if it accepted  that Mr E and Mrs B could do 
that. If that was the case there  would be nothing in principle to prevent Mr E and Mrs B doing 
it at any time and it could  be said that TMW had agreed that this buy to let mortgage could 
become a residential one which it didnt want to do.
I have considered carefully Mr Es email to us of 13 May 2019 when he says that the logic of 
TMWs position is if it wont allow the additional lending  because of their future  intentions  
then the existing facility is also outside  its lending criteria. But Mr E and Mrs B are already 
tied into a buy to let mortgage and subject  to the conditions that apply to that mortgage. That 
hasnt changed  whatever  their future  intentions  are. But the situation would be different if 
TMW agreed to the additional borrowing accepting that Mr E and Mrs B could reside in the 
property in the future. That could be said to alter the terms of the existing mortgage which 
TMW werent agreeable to.
So, whilst I can see that Mr E and Mrs B were rightly  upset  when they were originally told 
they were in breach of their mortgage  conditions and got poor service  from TMW,  I dont 
accept that TMW acted unreasonably in refusing the additional borrowing given what Mr E 
Ref: DRN12504412and Mrs B said about their intentions. As this was a buy to let mortgage Im also of the view 
that that the fact that Mr E and Mrs B intended  living in the property, although indeed some  
time in the future, was a relevant lending consideration for TMW.. 
I understand Mr E and Mrs Bs annoyance at being earlier told that they were in breach  of 
their mortgage conditions and the lack of efficiency with which  TMW  dealt with their 
application paperwork. But my view is that the £350  offered  by TMW  as compensation for 
that is appropriate. But for the reasons set out above I cant  fairly uphold  this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1250441