K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He said he took multiple payday loans to 
pay off previous borrowing. He says that this shouldve indicated  that he was struggling  to 
make the repayments.  
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. MYJAR disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
MYJAR, and Mr B, received my provisional decision.  MYJAR agreed  with my provisional 
decision. Mr B didnt have  anything to add after seeing it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision.  And MYJAR  agreed 
with it. So, in the absence of a response  from Mr B, or his representative, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 to 15;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative payment information about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Bs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 means  any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 7 to 15 should be removed from Mr Bs credit  file.
If Mr B still owes MYJAR any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan MYJAR 
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance. MYJAR  
should then re-work  the account as if all payments made by Mr B went  to towards the 
principal. But importantly,  MYJAR needs to make sure that Mr B doesnt  repay  more  than the 
principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr B hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed MYJAR can deduct this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr B has already paid enough to repay the principal  
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if MYJAR no longer owns this debt,  and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount  
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr B.
Ref: DRN18368402*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. The tax needs 
to be taken off before  any set-off.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I partly  uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
MYJAR Limited should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18368403extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  15 payday  and instalment  loans MYJAR provided  to Mr B between  November 
2014 and September 2018.
loan 
numberdate Takenamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 30/11/2014 £100 1 18/12/2014
2 13/01/2015 £100 1 21/01/2015
3 21/01/2015 £100 1 20/02/2015
4 20/02/2015 £100 1 20/03/2015
5 21/03/2015 £100 1 21/04/2015
6 21/04/2015 £300 3 19/06/2015
7 19/06/2015 £100 1 23/06/2015
8 04/07/2015 £600 3 21/09/2015
9 06/10/2015 £500 3 18/12/2015
10 19/12/2015 £550 3 21/03/2016
11 29/04/2016 £500 6 17/08/2016
12 07/10/2016 £800 6 21/03/2017
13 21/03/2017 £1,200 12 21/03/2018
14 06/04/2018 £800 6 03/08/2018
15 30/09/2018 £1,050 12 outstanding
Before bringing  the complaint to this Service MYJAR had made  an offer to compensate Mr B in 
respect of loans 5 to 10. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought the offer MYJAR had made  for loans 5 and 
6 was reasonable. But he didnt fully agree with the offer MYJAR had made in respect of loans 7 to 
10. He also thought that MYJAR shouldnt  have approved loan 4 and loans 11 to 15.  
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  It said that:
Mr B didnt struggle  to repay the earlier loans. 
from loan 7 onwards  the adjudicator  didnt say whether the loans were affordable or not. The 
adjudicator also didnt comment on the checks MYJAR made after loan 7 or the detail the 
information contained  in the business file. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed  to me, an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on 
our website. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when MYJAR lent to Mr B. 
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
MYJAR. 
Ref: DRN18368404I am not quoting all the specific regulations  here, because  I would expect  MYJAR to be familiar with 
these through  previous ombudsman  decisions, particularly recent decisions, which set these  rules out 
in more detail.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would likely 
need to be flexible. That is to say, what  is sufficient  for one consumer might not be for another, or 
indeed what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same 
consumer in other  circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.  Certain factors  might point 
to the fact that MYJAR should fairly  and reasonably  have done  more  to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, but not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR  was required to establish whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr B could  sustainably make his 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably - if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN18368405did MYJAR, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B would  be able to repay in a sustainable  way? If not, would those  checks have shown 
that Mr B would  have been able to do so?
Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion  about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about  these  loans. So I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had with MYJAR.  So they are 
something I will take into account when considering  the other loans he took.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr B provided  when he completed his loan application for loan 4. 
And looking at this I think it would  be reasonable  for MYJAR to have thought  that Mr B could 
sustainably afford the repayments to this loan. 
Our adjudicator thought that because Mr B had borrowed three  loans in relatively quick succession 
this was evidence in itself that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. But Im not persuaded  this is 
the case. The amounts Mr B borrowed  didnt  increase and he didnt  struggle to repay  them. Whilst a 
pattern may have been emerging he still seems to have been borrowing  manageable amounts. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely MYJAR was made aware  of any financial 
problems Mr B mightve been having at this point. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
his circumstances  further. So I think it was reasonable  for MYJAR to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  MYJAR did for these loans were  
proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve loans  1 to 4 were reasonable.
MYJAR has agreed that it shouldnt have approved loans 5 and 6 so I havent looked at the sales of 
these loans in detail. And I havent  recreated  individual,  proportionate affordability  checks for loans 7 
to 15 because  I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next 
section.
taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful?
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at which  
MYJAR should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  
And so MYJAR  should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. Given the 
particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 7. I say this 
because:
the amounts  Mr B was borrowing were  starting to increase. And they increased sharply  by 
loan 8. So MYJAR ought  to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr B was having  to 
borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying his previous loans were  leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
Mr B wasnt really reducing  the amount he owed MYJAR. By loan 7 Mr B had been borrowing 
from MYJAR for over 7 months. And he went on to borrow,  sometimes larger  amounts over 
longer periods, for over two more  years. There was very little time when he was not in debt to 
MYJAR. So I think he was in effect  paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over 
an extended period
I think  that Mr B lost out because  MYJAR continued to approve loans from loan 7 onwards  because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN18368406So Im intending to uphold  Mr Bs complaint about loans  7 to 15 because the overall pattern of lending 
increased his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and hes lost out as 
a result. And whilst  Ive taken on board what MYJAR has said about the checks  it did over this time 
period I think  it shouldve seen from the lending  itself that Mr B was borrowing unsustainably. 
did MYJAR act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude MYJAR  acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.  
Ref: DRN1836840