K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains about mistakes HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as first direct) made when he 
applied for a credit card account and the impact of this on his ability to get credit. 
background 
Mr Y applied for a credit card with first direct in April 2018. A month later he realised first 
direct had opened three accounts instead of one and they were all showing on his credit file.
Mr Y had to contact credit reference  agencies (CRAs) as well as first direct  to sort things out. 
He says hes had several  applications for credit  declined.  Hes worried  this will happen again 
and he wants first direct  to pay for the cost of monitoring  his credit report. He would like first 
direct to pay compensation for distress  and inconvenience and potential damage in relation 
to declined credit products. 
 
First direct says Mr Ys account  was duplicated  twice when he got this credit  card so three 
accounts appeared on his credit file. It agreed to investigate but couldnt find the full details 
of the accounts  at first. First direct managed to contact all of the relevant CRAs and rectify 
Mr Ys credit  data by the start of 2019. It accepts mistakes were made but says this has 
been put right now. It offered to pay Mr Y £200 compensation for related upset and 
inconvenience.  
Our adjudicator accepts  first direct recorded information about  three  accounts  instead of one 
on Mr Ys credit file. But she doesnt  think this would have had a significant  impact on 
potential lenders - as the two accounts in question didnt show any use and no adverse 
information was recorded. She thinks its possible other information may have played a part 
in Mr Y being declined credit - such as multiple  searches that appear  on his credit record 
made by other lenders.  
Shes satisfied Mr Ys credit  file has been corrected and she doesnt think its reasonable to 
expect first direct to pay for a credit monitoring service in this situation. Shes not persuaded 
we can fairly  require first direct to pay compensation for something that hasnt yet happened. 
But she acknowledges there were significant  delays  in resolving  this issue and 
recommended first direct should pay Mr Y another £100 to compensation.  
First direct agreed to increase the compensation offered  to £300 but Mr Y doesnt think this 
is enough. He says first direct hasnt explained  how this error occurred or provided  
reassurance about  steps taken to prevent it happening again. He made  multiple efforts to 
contact CRAs and first direct and, whilst the error was corrected, the same incorrect 
information was reported again to CRAs not long after. 
Mr Y feels  it is unreasonable to expect him to have confidence in the accuracy of his credit 
record given what happened. So, he needs a credit monitoring  service and first direct should 
pay for that. He refers  to another decision made by this service  where an ombudsman said 
the bank should pay for such a subscription  service to enable  the consumer  to check his 
credit file.  
Mr Y thinks  applying  for three credit cards in short succession, regardless  of use, would be 
concerning to any creditor deciding whether to lend. He says he was told by one declining  
lender that the reason  for refusal was his credit  score and nothing else explains why he was 
declined credit. He doesnt think the other searches our adjudicator referred  to are relevant 
as they were soft searches. He considers it is more likely than not the information first 
Ref: DRN12355812direct recorded in error was the reason his applications  were rejected. And he asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr Y but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
First direct accepts  mistakes were made here.  I think  it acted fairly by investigating and 
removing the information it recorded incorrectly from Mr Ys credit record  - albeit that took 
longer than it should have. Mr Y has confirmed that his credit  record  has now been  rectified  
but he thinks the recording of this inaccurate  information caused him to be declined  credit.  
I have spoken  to Mr Y and he has explained the same information re-appeared at one point  
after it was removed. And I understand hes worried this will happen  again  and cause more  
problems. 
The information first direct  recorded on Mr Ys credit file indicated  he had three credit cards 
each with a £500 limit. I dont think this was adverse information - in that it didnt suggest Mr 
Y had missed payments or was otherwise struggling  to manage his money. But, I accept  a 
credit provider looking at Mr Ys credit record would  have thought he had access to an 
additional £1,000 of credit  and may have taken that into account in any decision to lend. 
I think prospective lenders  generally take a number of factors  into account  when deciding 
whether or not to extend credit. I cant safely conclude  that the information first direct 
recorded incorrectly here caused Mr Ys applications  to be declined.  
I realise this is frustrating for Mr Y - as he feels nothing  else could have affected these 
applications. But, even  if I were to accept thats  the case, Mr Y has confirmed this didnt  
cause him any direct  financial loss. And I cant reasonably require first direct pay for losses 
he hasnt incurred. 
I understand Mr Y is worried  this incorrect information may reappear and adversely impact 
his credit status. Hed like first direct  to pay for a subscription so he can monitor  his credit  
record going forward. Mr Y says this is what an ombudsman said should happen in another  
decision made by this service which he considers was based  on similar facts to his 
complaint here. 
This service will generally approach the complaints that are brought  to us in a consistent way 
but the decisions we make  do not create precedents. We consider each case on its 
individual facts  and merits.  I have looked at the decision Mr Y refers to. As he points out 
himself, this was a case where  the lender was unable to correct the incorrect information  it 
recorded. Im satisfied thats  not the case here - Mr Y has confirmed  the incorrect information 
recorded by first direct on his credit file has been removed.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, I am not persuaded theres  a significant risk 
this inaccurate information will re-appear. And I am not persuaded there are reasonable 
grounds to require first direct to pay for a subscription service.  If the information  does  show  
Ref: DRN12355813up again it is open to Mr Y to raise this with first direct. If hes unhappy with the response  he 
receives, he may be able to bring another complaint to this service.   
First direct has agreed to pay Mr Y £300  compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the mistakes  it made. Like our adjudicator, I think this seems fair overall. I 
understand Mr Ys frustration at what happened and I appreciate  he feels hes been declined  
credit as a result.  But I am not satisfied he has shown, on balance,  that its more likely than 
not the credit applications he made  were  declined solely because  of incorrect information  
first direct recorded. 
I am not persuaded theres  enough  evidence to reasonably conclude that Mr Y has been 
financially disadvantaged or suffered a financial loss as a result of mistakes  made  by first 
direct. And I am not persuaded I can reasonably require first direct to pay more  
compensation or do anything further. 
I realise this is not the outcome Mr Y hoped for and I am sorry if he feels let down. He is not 
obliged to accept  what I have said. In which case, it remains open to him to pursue this 
matter by other means should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. For the reasons Ive explained I require HSBC UK 
Bank plc (trading as first direct) to pay Mr Y £300  (in total)  for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1235581