K820x#14complaint
Mr R and the legal representative of the late Mrs R complain that Mapfre  Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) proportionately settled a 
claim under Mr and Mrs Rs travel insurance policy. 
Mr Rs son has brought  the complaint on behalf  of the complainants,  but for ease Ill refer to 
all submissions as having been made by Mr R himself. 
background
Mr R held a joint travel insurance policy together with his late wife  Mrs R. In late 2018,  
Mrs R travelled abroad and while she was away,  became seriously unwell.  
Mrs R was diagnosed  as having had a cerebrovascular  accident. And was treated abroad 
until she could be repatriated back to the UK. 
Sadly, not long after returning to the UK, Mrs R passed away.
Mrs Rs treatment in hospital abroad  was covered by EHIC (the European health insurance 
card). And Mapfre agreed to cover Mrs Rs repatriation  and some  other  travel  and 
accommodation costs  which  were claimed  for. 
However, when assessing  the claim and reviewing Mrs Rs medical records,  Mapfre 
identified it hadnt  been told about  Mrs Rs pre-existing  medical conditions.  Mrs Rs medical 
records showed she had been prescribed medication for a heart condition and asthma, and 
that shed fractured her wrist a year earlier.
Mapfre completed a retrospective  screening  of the conditions listed  on Mrs Rs medical 
records. It said had these  been declared  when  the policy  was taken out, it would have 
charged a higher premium for Mr and Mrs Rs policy. 
Mapfre said the higher  premium meant  that Mr and Mrs R had only paid 70.9% of the correct  
premium amount. It said because of this, it would settle the claim on a proportionate basis.  
This meant that Mapfre  would pay 70.9% of the claim, and Mr and Mrs R would be liable for 
the remaining  29.1%.  
Mrs R was repatriated to the UK by air ambulance,  so the costs of the claim and the 
percentage Mapfre said Mr and Mrs R would have to pay, were significant.  Mapfre said it 
would pay the total cost of the air ambulance so as not to delay Mrs Rs repatriation. But said 
it would  seek to recover part of the costs from Mr and Mrs R. It also said it could arrange  
a repayment plan. 
Mr R complained to Mapfre.  He said Mrs Rs medical conditions had been declared to 
Mapfre in the past. And said he thought it was unfair  that Mapfre  hadnt agreed  to pay the 
claim in full. He said he couldnt  afford to pay the costs Mapfre declined to cover. 
Mapfre responded. It said although Mrs Rs conditions had been declared in the past, the 
questions asked when  the policy was renewed in 2018 were not answered accurately. It said 
conditions can worsen or improve,  and new conditions can present, so it expects 
policyholders to declare their conditions at the point of purchasing each new policy.  Mapfre  
said it was entitled  to settle  the claim proportionately. 
Ref: DRN13060422Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr R brought the complaint to us. An investigator looked 
into the complaint  and ultimately concluded  Mapfre hadnt  done anything wrong. He said that 
each renewal is a new contract of insurance. And said he was satisfied that Mr and Mrs R 
had made  a misrepresentation which entitled  Mapfre  to settle  the claim proportionately. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view, so the case  has been passed  to me to make 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When reviewing this complaint Ive considered  the relevant law. The Consumer  Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the responsibilities of the 
consumer and insurer when entering  into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the 
consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an 
insurer (such  as giving untrue  or misleading  answers). 
Mr and Mrs R took out travel insurance with Mapfre in 2013  and renewed the policy  each 
subsequent year. Mapfre has evidenced  that Mrs Rs heart condition was declared  to it in 
2013, and again in 2014, 2015,  and 2016.  Her high blood pressure was also declared in 
2014 and 2016. And in 2016 osteoarthritis was also declared.
In January 2018, Mapfre called Mr and Mrs R to ask if they wanted to renew their policy.  
Mr R agreed to renew and Mapfre asked  him a series of questions. 
Ive listened to the call between Mapfre and Mr R and have set out a relevant extract below.
Mapfre said I have  some specific medical  questions to ask you  it is vital that you 
answer each question honestly  and accurately, taking reasonable care not to make a 
mis-representation, as inaccurate  answers may result in underwriters declining any 
claim costs that may arise.
Mapfre asked Mr R if he was happy to answer the questions on behalf of himself and 
the other people  insured. And Mr R confirmed that he was. 
Mapfre asked  In the last two years, have you or any person insured on the policy 
suffered from, or received  any form of medical advice or treatment, or medication for 
any blood circulatory conditions such as high blood pressure, hypertension or high 
cholesterol?.  And it asked the same about  any heart related conditions, or breathing 
conditions such as asthma, emphysema,  or COPD. 
Mr R answered  no to all of these. 
Mr R said he didnt mention any of Mrs Rs previously declared conditions  when he renewed 
in 2018 because he expected Mapfre was already aware of them. 
Ive seen evidence  which shows  information about  Mrs Rs medical conditions was disclosed 
to Mapfre at the time each policy was taken out between 2013 and late 2016. So, I think its 
fair to conclude that Mr and Mrs R had an awareness that it was Mapfres usual process to 
Ref: DRN13060423ask for details of medical conditions at each  renewal. Each annual policy was a separate 
insurance contract between Mapfre and Mr and Mrs R. The cover  didnt run continuously so 
Mapfre was entitled  to ask  and Mr and Mrs R were  required to accurately answer  
medical questions  each time the policy renewed.  
Ive carefully considered  the questions Mapfre asked Mr R and I think  these were clear  and 
unambiguous. Also Mapfre cautioned Mr R against  making a misrepresentation before it 
asked him the questions. And it told him a possible  consequence of making a 
misrepresentation was that a claim might not be paid. I think  that was fair. 
Mrs Rs medical  records  show  several medical conditions which should have been declared 
when the policy was renewed in January 2018.  And based on this, together with the call 
recording Ive listened to between Mapfre and Mr R, Im satisfied Mapfre  has sufficiently 
evidenced that a qualifying misrepresentation for the purposes of the legislation, took place 
at the point of renewal  in 2018. 
This means  Mapfre is entitled  to a remedy under the legislation. Mapfre  has treated this as 
a careless misrepresentation. I think this is fair. And this means Mapfre is entitled  to act as it 
would have done if it had been told about Mrs Rs medical conditions  in 2018  regardless of 
whether or not the condition claimed for was related to the conditions which werent  
disclosed. 
Mapfre completed a retrospective  screening  of Mrs Rs medical  conditions  and found it 
would have charged Mr and Mrs R a higher premium for their policy if the conditions had 
been disclosed at renewal. It calculated the difference  and told Mr R it would settle the claim 
on a proportionate basis. 
Im satisfied Mapfre has demonstrated it would have charged  a higher premium based  on 
Mrs Rs medical  conditions  at the time of renewal. So, I dont think its decision to settle the 
claim proportionately was unreasonable. 
Mr R has asked me to consider two particular points of CIDRA in relation to this complaint, 
which he believes demonstrate he didnt make a misrepresentation. He said Mapfre  didnt 
ask him to confirm or amend information previously  given  about the medical  conditions.  And 
he said he thinks Mapfre ought to have been  aware of Mrs Rs circumstances due to the 
previous policies they held. 
Id like to assure Mr R that Ive thought about his points. And that Ive considered CIDRA as 
a whole when  reviewing his complaint. 
But Mapfre  was entitled to ask for information about Mr and Mrs Rs medical conditions 
again at the point of renewal  it isnt required  to ask for information given during the 
previous renewals to be confirmed or amended. And I think Mapfres  reasoning for not 
relying on past medical disclosures (it said that medical conditions  can worsen or improve, 
and new conditions can present) is reasonable. 
Also, the policy was sold on a non-advised basis, which means  it was for Mr and Mrs R to 
review the policy  terms and schedule, to ensure they had the level of cover they needed.  
Ref: DRN13060424Whilst I know it will come as a great disappointment to Mr R, I dont think Mapfre has acted  
unfairly or unreasonably in offering to settle  the claim  proportionately. 
Mapfre is entitled to seek repayment of the proportion of the repatriation costs which it hasnt 
covered. It has offered  to agree a repayment  plan with Mr R, so he may wish to contact 
Mapfre directly  about this. 
my final decision
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has already 
made an offer to pay 70.9%  of the costs  claimed for. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) should pay 70.9%  of the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and the legal 
representative of the estate of Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1306042