K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000. The policy  was taken out to cover  
their mortgage and was in Mr Ns name only. It provided him with cover for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint for the following  reasons:
The PPI was taken  out during a meeting when Mr and Mrs N were  applying for an additional 
secured loan. Their  mortgage started  around  six years before, so they knew  the PPI was a 
separate product and that they didnt have  to have it. Whilst I cant  be sure exactly what was 
discussed during  the meeting, overall I think it more likely than not that Halifax made  Mr and 
Mrs N aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it. Its not surprising 
Mr and Mrs N cant remember this, or recall PPI being discussed at all, given this took place 
so long ago.
The bank advised Mr and Mrs N to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
The policy was taken out in Mr Ns name  only. He was eligible for the policy  given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr N told us he wouldve received  up to six months pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident.  And he and Mrs N had some savings. But the 
mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment  and Mr and Mrs Ns home  
was at risk if they didnt keep  up with the repayments.  The PPI would have paid out for 
up to 24 months  in the event  of a successful  claim for accident or sickness.  So I think  
the PPI couldve  been a useful  benefit,  in addition to Mr and Mrs Ns existing 
arrangements.
Ref: DRN10378152Mr N wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits  such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The cost of the policy  was set out in the application  form. So Mr and Mrs N wouldve 
known that the PPI would  cost them £29.90 each  month before they took it out.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation 
was unsuitable  and I dont think Mr and Mrs N would have made a different  decision about 
taking out the policy  if better information had been provided to them   overall,  I think  they 
would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1037815