K820x#14complaint
Mr W as representative for the estate  of his late wife, Mrs W, complains that Santander  
UK plc (Santander) wrongly  advised Mrs W about  an ISA account.   He would like an 
apology. And compensation for loss and upset.
background
Mr W says that when  Mrs W was seriously  ill they both went  into a Santander  branch as Mrs 
W wanted to transfer her ISA to her husband. He says Santander told his wife that ISAs 
couldnt be transferred.  So they left the ISA in her name.
He says after Mrs W died he found out they had been misinformed and Mrs W could have  
transferred her ISA to him. Or placed  into an Inheritance ISA.
He says this has been  very upsetting as his wife wanted to sort her affairs before she died 
so that her family wouldnt  have to do this. He feels Santander should  have told him Mrs W 
could have put her ISA into his name  to avoid probate. He says he has had to pay over 
£1,000 in solicitors  fees to get probate.
Santander apologised if it didnt advise Mr W he could open an Inheritance ISA. It confirmed 
that funds from the ISA had been sent to Mr W's solicitor in December 2017. And that Mr W 
could still open  an ISA to retain the tax free status  of the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found Santander  were  correct in saying that 
ISAs couldnt  be transferred  to someone else. He felt it would have been helpful if in the 
branch meeting Santander had told Mrs W about the Inheritance  ISA. But as these ISAs  can 
only be opened after death he felt it might not have been appropriate  to mention. He wasnt 
sure if Santander were fully aware  of Mrs Ws health  condition.
He said he recognised Mr W had been  put to some inconvenience. But explained  he couldnt 
recommend compensation for this as the complaint  was on behalf of the estate not Mr W.
Mr W didnt accept this view. He wanted  to know why the view letter  didnt include anything 
about closing  Mrs Ws ISA and passing the money  to Mr W when they visited  the branch.
Our adjudicator explained that Mr W had said this wasnt what Mrs W asked  Santander at 
the time which is why it wasnt  referred to in the view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr W is going  to be disappointed  as Ive reached the same  view as our 
adjudicator.
I cant be sure what Santander told Mr and Mrs W at their branch visit as there are no 
records of that conversation. Mr W says Mrs W asked about transferring her ISA to her 
husband but Santander said this wasnt possible. 
Its true that ISAs  cant  be transferred to another person. So Santander did give the right 
information at that time.
Ref: DRN12158242I dont know if Mrs W explained  about  her health  situation and wanting  to avoid or minimise 
the inconvenience for her family  after her death. From what  I have read I havent got the 
impression, understandably, that she went into this level of detail at the branch meeting. 
Unless she initiated those  questions I dont think it would have been reasonable or 
appropriate to Santander to go into detail  about  what happens to ISAs after someone has 
died. I think it might have helped if Santander had asked  if there  was a particular reason for 
asking about transferring  the ISA. That would have  given  MrsW the chance to explain if she 
wanted to do so.
I think the main point here is that Mrs Ws estate has not been  disadvantaged  by what  
happened at that meeting. Or in any subsequent  phone calls. Due to the level of funds  in the 
ISA there would always have been  a need  for probate to be sought. I appreciate that is a 
costly exercise. But there would always  have been a need  to meet  these costs.  And I 
understand Santander has sent a cheque to Mr W for £215 as a contribution  towards these 
costs.
The ISA couldnt  be transferred whilst Mrs W was alive. And had to be closed  on death. But 
there was, and may still be, an option  for Mr W to open an Inheritance Tax ISA to preserve 
the tax free status of the money. Santander explained this in its final response letter dated 9 
January 2018.
Depending on the specific terms of Mrs Ws ISA she may have been  able to close  it whilst 
she was still alive. Although from what I have read I didnt understand that was her intention. 
But if she had been able to do this she would have  lost the benefit of the tax free status. So 
she might  not have chosen  to do this
I do appreciate this must have been a very difficult time for Mr W and his family. And that it 
must have  been  frustrating and upsetting for Mrs W that she wasnt  able to do what she 
wanted before she died.  But I dont  feel Mrs Ws estate has suffered any loss for which I 
could consider compensation. And although  I also appreciate Mr W has been  put to some 
inconvenience and upset in dealing with this I can only consider loss to the estate of his late 
wife. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1215824