K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about what happened  when he tried to use the emergency insurance  
provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Mrs S brings  this complaint on her husbands behalf.
background
Mrs S told us about two claims  made on Mr Ss Aviva home  emergency  cover.  
Mrs S said that shed rung Aviva about a broken tap in 2017. Aviva didnt manage  to fix it. 
Mrs S said that the engineer had told her that those  washers are too difficult  to find. So she 
contacted the manufacturer, who sent her a washer.  Mrs S said that wasnt the focus of her 
complaint, but she wanted us to know that Aviva had let her down each time shed called.
Mrs S said that she also called Aviva in March 2018.  The roof on her home had partially 
collapsed, so she had water pouring through a ceiling. That water had also caused all the 
electrics in the house to blow. Mrs S said that she was on the phone for almost  an hour, 
holding to speak  to Aviva. But then the phone stopped working too. Mrs S emailed instead, 
and told Aviva that it was an emergency.  She got an automatic response which  said that she 
would hear in 5-10 days. But she didnt get any response at all, not even days later.
Mrs S said that she complained, and told Aviva she wanted it to pay back  the premium that 
Mr S had paid for the service. 
Mrs S said that on 19 March she rang to cancel the policy. She rang again in early  April, 
because she hadnt heard from Aviva. It eventually  wrote  to her on 15 May, saying that it 
hadnt got a full response for her complaint yet, but she could bring her complaint to our 
service because it was taking so long. Mrs S wanted  us to look into this.
Mrs S said that she and her husband  pay a premium of £613 per year,  but on the two 
occasions this year shed  had to call, Aviva hadnt provided the service she had paid for. 
Mrs S said that Aviva  had now paid her £273.57 which  it said was for not covering taps, and 
for what it wouldve cost to send out a roofer and an electrician.  Mrs S said that her home 
insurance had sent a roofer  out, and paid for this. Mrs S still wanted the £613 she had paid 
for the insurance  returned. 
Aviva said that Mrs S had complained about two claims shed made.
Aviva said that the first claim was made in July 2017. An engineer  went  out and said he 
wasnt able to repair the tap. He offered a replacement from the stock he had with him, but 
Mrs S didnt want that. So he said that he would  contact  the manufacturer  who would send 
out the part for repairs. 
The claim for the leaking roof was made in March 2018. Aviva said that this was a 
particularly busy time for it, because  of the very bad weather  at the time. There  was a wait 
time of several hours to speak to it, and its online claims  registration  system had crashed. 
Aviva said it wouldnt have completed full repairs to the damaged roof. That wasnt  covered 
under this policy, so Mrs S would always have had to contact her home insurer about that. 
So if she had got through, all it wouldve done  about the roof would be to take emergency 
Ref: DRN11312952steps like place a tarpaulin over the damaged area.  But it wouldve sent an electrician  out to 
inspect the electrics at the property. 
Because Mrs S said she hadnt been able to get through on the phone, Aviva had paid Mrs S 
what it wouldve paid to send a roofer and an electrician out, which  was £173.57, and it had 
paid her £100 in compensation too, £50 each for the problems shed experienced with both 
claims. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that what our service does when 
something has gone wrong  is to try to put the person back in the position  they wouldve been  
in if that hadnt  gone  wrong.  And he thought that Mr S was in the position hed have been  in 
if his claim had gone ahead. Aviva had also paid £100 in compensation. So he didnt think 
that Aviva  had to do any more. 
Mrs S didnt agree with that. She said that she wasnt getting what  she had paid for, which 
was emergency  repairs. She said that shed mentioned the tap problem so that we would 
know that Aviva wasnt providing  the service it offered.  She said that if Aviva  is offering a 
home emergency service,  then it should  have enough staff to answer the phones. Offering to 
get back in touch after ten days isnt good enough.  And Aviva  didnt even do that. 
Mrs S said that Aviva  was still better off paying the call out cost to her than it was giving her 
back the premium she had paid. She said that our rules needed to be rewritten  because they 
were in favour of the insurer who could make a profit without doing any work.  That shouldnt  
be allowed.  She said that she thought that Aviva  refunding her premium for the year 
wouldve been the decent thing to do.
Mrs S also said that she thought she was paying for cover in the case of emergencies. She 
hadnt had that cover, and she said Aviva  had made  a profit  of almost £400 for doing  
nothing. She said that she didnt think that was fair. She certainly didnt think it was fair to 
sell home  emergency  cover then not help when an emergency happened.  She didnt think 
that Aviva  should be able to keep the rest of her money.
Because Mrs S didnt  agree  with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached a different conclusion on this 
complaint to our investigator. Because of that, this decision will be provisional,  and Ill give 
both sides a chance to comment before I make a final decision.
Mr S has insurance for home emergencies with Aviva. That covers  plumbing and drainage,  
electrics, and security. Security  includes providing  temporary repairs to roofing. Although 
Aviva has stressed that it would never  have carried out full repairs  to Mr Ss roof, it does 
seem to have accepted  that both the incidents Mrs S told us about were covered under this 
policy.
Mr Ss policy  states that if his incident  is an emergency, or if his property is unsafe, then his 
claim will be given  priority.
Ref: DRN11312953Mrs S claimed for a faulty tap. An engineer attended,  and did offer to make a repair.  I 
appreciate that this was an unsatisfactory offer, because it wouldve meant having a new tap 
installed which Mrs S didnt want. But someone did come out, and they did make  some 
attempts to help.  Mrs S later solved  the problem herself. 
I think that Mrs S was provided  with poor service on that occasion,  which  Aviva has 
acknowledged. It paid £50 for that. I think thats a reasonable  resolution to this part of Mr Ss 
complaint. 
But Mrs S told us that this wasnt really  the main reason  she had complained.  She just 
mentioned it so that we knew that Aviva  had let her down before. The main concern she had 
was that she had no response at all from Aviva in March, when her roof collapsed and all the 
electricity went  off in her home. 
Aviva has pointed out that extreme weather  conditions meant  so many people  were trying to 
get through,  that there  was a very long wait to contact it over the phone, and that its online 
claims registration service had crashed entirely.  I think  its reasonable for Aviva to say that 
its resources would  be stretched during this time. But I think its also fair to note that Aviva is 
providing insurance for home emergencies. The cover that it provides will always  be subject 
to far more  demand  during  especially  cold weather. And Mrs S has told us that she has this 
insurance so that she has some  cover in the case of emergencies.
Mrs S wasnt  able to get through to Aviva on the phone, and although she emailed, she 
received no response  at all to that contact. I think that Aviva provided Mrs S with poor 
service, at an extremely stressful  time.
Mrs S isnt out of pocket  for the repairs to her home. Her home insurer  is covering the cost of 
the roof repairs. 
Aviva has paid Mrs S what it wouldve paid to send  a roofer and an electrician  to Mrs Ss 
home, and it has paid £50 in compensation because Mrs S wasnt  able to get through.
Mrs S says that Aviva is making a profit out of her, and it shouldnt  be able to do that. But I 
think that its important  to note that Aviva has paid what it wouldve paid for the work that 
was needed on Mrs Ss home. I dont think that Aviva also has to pay Mrs S back the 
premium she paid,  because it hasnt provided  the service she expected.  
Our investigator said that he expected  Aviva  to put Mrs S back in the position shed have 
been in if it had gone to her home when her roof collapsed. That is one of the things that our 
service tries to do. So if Mrs S had paid someone else to make emergency repairs to the 
roof, I might  have asked  Aviva to pay back that cost.
But Ive said that Mrs S isnt out of pocket. So Aviva  has taken a different approach. It has 
said that it still thinks it should pay, now, for the work  that it shouldve  done to help Mrs S. 
Otherwise, it would  be saving money  by failing to provide  a service which Mrs S was entitled 
to expect under her policy. I think thats  a reasonable thing for Aviva to do. 
But I think it needs to do a bit more in this case. Thats  because  Mr S bought  this policy  so 
he and Mrs S could have some peace  of mind, that if an emergency  happened, theyd be 
covered. And they didnt get the help they were expecting.  I think  that the amount  of £50 that 
Aviva has paid for this isnt enough  to make  up for the distress and inconvenience that Mr 
Ref: DRN11312954and Mrs S experienced. Their roof had partially collapsed,  and all the electricity  had gone off. 
Mrs S tried to get Aviva to help, and couldnt even get in touch with it. 
I think that a total compensation  payment of £150 would be the right amount  to make up for 
what went wrong here. I understand that Aviva has already paid Mrs S £50 in compensation 
for this complaint,  and if thats right,  then it should pay Mrs S a further  £100  in compensation 
now. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to tell Aviva  Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs S an 
additional £100 in compensation, on top of the money  it has already paid her for this 
complaint.
If either  party has anything further to add, they should do so by 1 April 2019. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching my final decision. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1131295