K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained Wirecard Card  Solutions  Limited wont  reimburse  him for transactions 
on his Pockit prepaid card which he didnt authorise.
background
In March 2019 Mr H noticed he didnt have  as much money on his prepaid  card as he 
expected. He complained to Pockit as there were two transactions  on his card hed not 
made. Pockit are an agent  of Wirecard.
Mr H was advised to lodge a dispute  with the two companies involved as Pockit  felt a 
subscription was involved.  They didnt believe their rules supported them  raising this as a 
dispute through the international card schemes.  Mr H didnt think this could be right. He 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator realised  there were more  transactions than Mr H had initially noted. Two 
smaller amounts debited  the card in February 2019. Other monthly  payments were  also 
attempted but were declined as Mr H had cancelled  his card.  Our investigator  felt Mr Hs 
card details had been  used to sign up to a subscription but there was no evidence this was 
Mr H. On this basis he asked Wirecard to refund Mr H.
Wirecard disagreed with this outcome. The evidence showed Mr Hs card security code was 
used so they felt he must have been present.  Theyve asked an ombudsman  to consider 
Mr Hs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
As our investigator confirmed if Mr H signed  up to a subscription of some  type,  then he has 
rights. The service must  give him information  to ensure there is explicit consent  by the 
customer of the service theyre  buying. Ive seen  no evidence that this is what happened 
here. In fact both services  are similar to those Ive seen on other  fraudulent claims. I suspect 
these could be online scams harvesting card details. They appear to offer services to identify 
whos using your card details ironically.  
Using card details in this way can avoid early  detection of fraud  because  smaller amounts 
are being  debited.
In any case Ive seen  nothing which shows Mr H signed up to any service.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
Ref: DRN13827552Our investigator in his views dated  31 January and 21 February  2020  covered the timeline of 
events and the transactions themselves. I dont need to repeat what was said there but I can 
confirm Ive reviewed the evidence  Mr H and Wirecard  has given us.
As I think  what  may have  happened is that Mr Hs card details were harvested and used 
fraudulently, I can only conclude Mr H didnt authorise these transactions.
Ive also considered whether Mr H could have acted with gross  negligence in looking after 
his card and details. But Wirecard has offered  no evidence that this is what  has happened. 
And this wouldnt fit with the likelihood that Mr Hs card details were  harvested.
The transactions in dispute  total £124.63 for four payments in February and March 2019.  
Wirecard will need to reimburse  this amount and add 8% simple interest to that as well.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Wirecard  Card Solutions Limited 
to:
Refund Mr H £124.63 for four disputed transactions;  and
Add 8% simple interest a year from the dates the transactions  were debited until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1382755