K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) paid Ms B too little 
compensation following a claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Ms Bs car was damaged  after she avoided hitting an animal in the road. She told CIS that 
both passenger side tyres had been  damaged in the incident. CIS moved the car to its 
approved repairers  but that process  was delayed. The repairers fixed the car but shortly 
afterwards Ms Bs rear passenger side tyre blew-out while  she was driving on the motorway  
with her family in the car.
CIS repaired Ms Bs car again.  It said it hadnt  replaced the rear tyre previously. It said the 
evidence showed  that it had blown  after being driven while  deflated. But it acknowledged  
that the tyre might have  been damaged in the earlier incident  and might have required 
replacement. It apologised to Ms B and paid her £300 compensation.
Ms B brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator  thought CIS should increase  its 
compensation by £100. CIS agreed but Ms B didnt think that went  far enough  so her 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im going to uphold it and 
my award will be the same as our adjudicators recommendation.
In bringing this complaint Ms B has made  a number of detailed point. I've considered  
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
Ive seen that, after she reported  the accident,  there were some  issues with CIS collecting 
the damaged  car and taking it to its repairers.  That confusion lasted a couple of days during 
which time it rang Ms B to see if she knew where her car was. She told CIS it was still at the 
scene of the accident. 
After the repairer  received the car, they replaced the front passenger side tyre but didnt 
think that the rear tyre needed  replacing.  It was this tyre that was later to blow-out while 
Ms B was driving on the motorway with her parents and son in the car. I can understand that 
must have  been  a terrifying experience  for Ms B. But thankfully no-one was hurt. CIS 
acknowledged failings  and agreed  with our adjudicators assessment that it should  increase 
its offer of compensation to £400  in total.  I think thats a reasonable sum in the 
circumstances.
Ms B doesnt think that sum goes far enough.  Shes noted that she could have been  put in 
more danger at the side of the motorway after the tyre blew-out. But she wasnt and was 
eventually taken home safely.  So while I can understand  that the experience  was most likely 
frightening, and that her anxiety and fear might  have been made worse because  she had her 
family with her, I think £400 is sufficient compensation to address her distress and 
Ref: DRN15405252inconvenience in the circumstances. Thats because that award is in line with other cases  we 
look at of similar seriousness.
For completeness Ms Bs commented that she wasnt comfortable with the car after the tyre 
blew-out so she changed it shortly afterwards and had a to pay £1,600 to buy a replacement 
car. But Ms Bs car wasnt a total loss following the incident. And after the repairer completed 
the work  on the rear tyre theres no evidence the car wasnt safe to drive. If Ms B decided  
she wanted to replace  the car that was her choice. But I havent seen that anything CIS did 
wrong forced  her into that position. So I dont  think further compensation is required because 
of that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I 
require CIS General Insurance  Limited  to increase  the compensation  payable  to Ms B by 
£100 to £400 in total. It should pay the extra compensation within 28 days  of us telling it that 
Ms B has accepted  my final decision.  If it pays later than this then it must add interest  to the 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple from the date Ms B accepts my decision to the date it 
makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If CIS pays  interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1540525