K821x#15complaint
Miss F has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited didnt give her enough 
information when  it referred her to a credit hire company after Miss F reported an incident. 
Miss F held a car insurance  policy with Admiral. 
background
Miss F reported an incident  to her insurer, Admiral  in January 2017. Admiral said it was likely 
to be settled as a non fault incident  as Miss F said another  driver had driven into the rear of 
her car. Admiral  gave  Miss F some  information about her options which  were:  for Admiral to 
deal with the claim  or for a non fault service provider to deal with it  also known as a 
Credit Hire Company (CHC). 
Miss F decided to use the CHC. 
In 2018 Miss F complained to Admiral. The CHC was pursuing  her for costs  it wasnt able to 
recover from the third party. Miss F said she believed the CHC dealing with the claim was 
part of Admiral as her insurer. 
Admiral said it gave  Miss F sufficient  information  to make an informed decision  and told 
her the CHC was a separate  business  to Admiral.  It said that it was for the CHC to fully 
explain its services to Miss F. 
Our investigator thought Admiral hadnt  given Miss F enough information to make an 
informed decision.  On balance, he thought Miss F wouldnt have used the CHC and would 
have chosen to make a claim through her insurance policy if Admiral had given sufficient 
information. 
The investigator explained that we cannot look at any complaint Miss F has against the 
CHC. So any complaint  Miss F has about  them she will need  to refer to the Legal  
Ombudsman. So he didnt  believe  he could  recommend that Admiral  compensate  Miss F for 
any of the costs the CHC was pursuing  her for. But he thought Admiral should pay Miss F 
£350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her by failing to provide 
enough information at referral stage.  
Admiral didnt agree. It said its satisfied  Miss F was given  enough  information.  It said it was 
for the CHC to provide Miss F with their terms and conditions for Miss F to agree to.
Miss F said she believes Admiral should  be responsible  for the costs  the CHC are pursuing 
her for  as it didnt  give her sufficient information when it referred her. If shed known there 
was a possibility  she could be pursued for the costs directly, she says she would have 
chosen to claim through Admiral. She believed the CHC was acting on behalf of Admiral. 
Miss F says shes checked her policy and found she had protected her No Claims Bonus 
(NCB). So she feels Admiral  misled her as the agent said the claim would have an effect on 
her NCB of she claimed  under her policy.
As both parties disagree, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN17378922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the investigator  explained, we cannot  look at the actions of the CHC. He has addressed 
this separately with Miss F. My decision is about  whether Admiral provided Miss F with 
enough information to make an informed  decision when she reported the incident. I dont 
think it did. 
I agree  that it isnt for Admiral to explain all of the pros and cons  of using a CHC over making 
a claim under Miss Fs policy. But from the referral  call recording I think the agent didnt 
provide balanced information. The agent explained the benefits  of using a CHC without 
explaining any of the possible negative outcomes. And she listed  the negative  outcomes of 
making a claim under  her car insurance policy. In summary the pros for using a CHC were:  
no claim against Miss Fs policy, no excess to pay, a like for like hire car, no affect on 
her NCB.
The cons  in claiming under her car insurance policy were:
Miss Fs NCB would be affected  until Admiral could recover the full costs from the 
third party  and she would need  to pay her excess.
Miss F was entitled to a courtesy  car for the duration of the repairs under her car insurance 
policy free of charge. And as her NCB was protected, this meant that the claim wouldnt 
have impacted on her NCB. But I dont think Admiral explained this to Miss F.  
Before Miss F indicated what her preference  might be, the agent said So would you like to 
use the non-fault service? Miss F asked  what the difference would be compared to claiming 
under her policy. I think this indicates that Miss F was still unsure. The agent  reiterated the 
benefits of using the CHC and the cons of claiming  against her insurance policy. 
Miss F asked if shed need  to pay anything for the non fault service.  Admiral said no, the 
only thing you may need  to pay is a £15 convenience charge when (CHC  name) drop off the 
hire car with fuel in it.
Admiral failed to mention  that if Miss F used the CHC,  she may be liable for the costs of her 
claim if the CHC cannot recover its costs from the third party.
So even though its not for Admiral to explain all of the pros and cons, I dont think  Miss F 
was given enough information  to make a balanced and informed decision. I dont think  this 
was fair. I think on balance its more likely that Miss F would have chosen to claim under her 
car insurance policy  if shed been  given enough information by Admiral.
Miss F may be able to take her complaint about the CHC  to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Although Im upholding  Miss Fs complaint, I dont think  Admiral  is therefore responsible for 
the costs the CHC is pursuing Miss F for. We cant investigate this complaint to decide if 
what the CHC is doing is reasonable or not. 
Ref: DRN17378923But we can award  compensation to Miss F for the distress Admiral  caused  as her insurer  - 
by failing to provide enough information for Miss F to make an informed decision when it 
referred her to the CHC. For this reason, I think Admiral should  pay Miss F £350.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part, I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Miss F £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Miss F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1737892