K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), charged interest 
on a purchase he made, before it was due. Hes also upset about the service  he received. 
He says an advisor gave  him inaccurate  information.  
background 
On 30 October 2017 Mr F bought  a mobile phone using his Shop Direct, Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) account.  It was delivered to him on 21 November 2017. BNPL  terms deferred  
interest for a year and Mr F assumed that was a year from the date he received the item. He 
said he therefore planned to make a final payment of £300 in the days leading up to the end 
of this period.  But when  he checked his account  on 13 November 2018 he realised that 
interest of £355.31 had already been applied.
He called Shop Direct  and an advisor  wrongly  told him that the deferred interest period  is 
calculated from the date of despatch and not the date of order.  Mr F says that the advisor 
also wrongly suggested that the interest would be refunded. He paid the £300 he was 
planning to pay on 20 November 2018 but he didnt receive a refund of the interest.
Shop Direct accepted that their advisor  had made  a mistake and they offered Mr F £25 to 
compensate him for this. But they explained  that BNPL purchases were listed on Mr Fs 
statement from the date of order and reminders were provided  on the front pages of the two 
statements prior to the due date. So they didnt think  they needed to take any further action.
But Mr F didnt  agree  and he referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator thought 
Mr F had been given enough  notice  of when the interest free period was due to end. He 
noted that the September and October statements  hed been sent, gave an estimate of the 
interest that would be applied  and warned Mr F hed need to pay in full before  2 November if 
he was to avoid  interest  charges. He also thought that Shop Direct had applied  the interest 
correctly. He reviewed the terms and conditions of the account which said a BNPL 
transaction will be applied  to your account on the order date and if the BNPL transaction is 
not repaid in full by the first payment due date after the end of the deferred period the 
accrued interest  will be charged  to the account. So he couldnt agree with Mr F that the 
charges had been applied  incorrectly.
But he did review the conversation Mr F had with the advisor  and he understood Mr F had 
been wrongly advised the deferred  period would begin  after the delivery date and not the 
order date. However, he was persuaded Shop Direct had accepted this error and paid Mr F 
fair compensation in the circumstances.
But Mr F was still dissatisfied and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN19347532Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms of Mr Fs account said that the deferred period started from the day the items 
were ordered and payment was due by the first payment due date after the end of the 
deferred period
The deferred  period was twelve months  and as the items were ordered on 30 October 2017  
the first payment date after twelve months  was 2 November 2018.
So whilst I understand Mr F thought the deferred  date started  on the delivery  date, this was 
evidently not the case and its clear that interest has been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
He was led to believe that the deferred  period was calculated from the delivery date but this 
was during a chat with an advisor on 13 November 2018 and, as this was after the payment 
was due and the interest  had been  added,  I dont  think it had any bearing on Mr F missing  
the payment date.  It was, of course, poor service  but I can see that Shop Direct have offered 
Mr F £25 to compensate him for that and I think, in the circumstances, thats sufficient.
I can also see that Shop Direct provided warnings  about the date upon  which  interest would 
be added  to Mr Fs account and I can see these warnings  were prominently displayed on his 
statements.
So, taking all this into account,  I dont think Shop Direct need  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1934753