K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc (Barclays)  hasnt fairly considered  his claim made 
under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
In February 2012,  Mr N bought a reclining chair  for around £1,300  using his Barclays credit 
card. The chair also came with a five year guarantee which  started when Mr N took delivery 
of it in October 2012.  Mr  N said that in September 2017 the chair  broke  so he contacted the 
retailer hed bought it from to claim under the guarantee. 
When the retail engineer  inspected the chair  they identified several faults,  one with the 
power supply transformer  and the second with the electrical circuit. The power  supply 
transformer was replaced by the engineer  as he had the available part with him. However 
the engineer explained  the replacement electrical circuit needed to be ordered in, so he sent 
through a request for the part that day. Mr N chased  the retailer  several times for the 
replacement part but after several months,  in January 2013, he was told the second  part was 
no longer available. The retailer also said the repair had been  offered as a gesture of 
goodwill as Mr N was out of the guarantee  period.  Mr N was confused by this as the 
engineer initially  told him when  hed replaced the first part that he was covered under the 
guarantee. 
The retailer  said as the second part wasnt covered under the guarantee they wouldnt be 
replacing the whole chair   even though the replacement part wasnt available.  However  
they offered  him £75 compensation to cover the remaining  month left on the guarantee. Mr N 
didnt think this was fair as he couldnt  get the parts needed to repair  the chair, so he felt it 
wasnt fit for purpose.  Mr N also felt there  had been  a breach of contract as hed been  told 
initially the faulty part was covered by the guarantee, then told the faulty part wasnt 
available, and finally that it wasnt actually covered under the guarantee. 
Mr N said that when  the retailer didnt respond to his complaint he contacted Barclays  to 
make a claim under section 75 CCA.  In certain  circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer  
an equal right to claim against  the supplier of goods or services, or the provider of credit if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.
Barclays looked at information from the retailer and said that they wouldve expected  the 
chair to have lasted for longer.  However,  they said they couldnt  say if the faults had been  
caused by wear and tear or a manufacturing fault - so they offered Mr N £250 as a goodwill 
gesture to reflect the time they thought  he should have still had use of the chair.  They  also 
said that theyd  reconsider the amount if Mr N was able to prove the faults  werent caused by 
wear and tear. Mr N didnt  agree with the compensation offered  so he asked this service to 
look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had done  anything wrong. She acknowledged  Mr Ns 
frustration with the retailer, but she said that she couldnt consider this as part of the 
complaint against  Barclays. She said that she could  only look at whether Barclays had 
treated Mr N fairly, and based on the payment theyd offered him, she felt they had. Mr N 
didnt agree as he wanted  more compensation - so he asked for his complaint to be looked 
at again by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 August 2019. I said the following:
Ref: DRN12376282Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr N bought the chair  using his Barclays credit card. Under section 75 he has an equal right 
to claim against Barclays as he does the retailer if theres been a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the retailer. There is an implied term in the contract between  Mr N and 
the retailer that the chair should  be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what  a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances, such  
as the age and cost of the chair  at the point  of sale. 
 
To be able to uphold  Mr Ns complaint about  Barclays, I must be satisfied  that theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the furniture retailer,  and that Barclays  response 
to his claim under section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr N has said that he feels the chair wasnt fit for purpose as parts  on it broke within  five 
years. In short, he doesnt think  that the chair was of satisfactory quality. Theres no dispute 
that the chair  developed faults,  this means I have  to consider whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of sale. 
I acknowledge that Mr N felt the fault he experienced wasnt  caused by wear and tear. 
However, given that he had problem free use of the chair for at least five years,  Id need  to 
see some  compelling evidence that the chair failed  as a result of some inherent defect, 
rather than general  wear and tear. 
I can see that Barclays offered to pay Mr N £125 towards the cost of an independent  
inspection of the chair  to see if the fault was due to a manufacturing defect and not wear  and 
tear. I think this was a reasonable suggestion by Barclays, but Mr N didnt want  to do this. 
As Mr N no longer has the chair, I went back to the retailer and obtained the initial report  
from the inspection  they carried out. This says that, in the opinion of the inspector, there was 
a defective component and that liability lay with the manufacturer.  So taking this into 
account, and despite the length of time Mr N had the chair,  Im just about persuaded the 
chair was likely of unsatisfactory  quality when it was supplied. 
As I think  the chair  was likely  unsatisfactory  quality when  supplied, Ive looked  at what both 
Barclays and the retailer did to try to put things right.
Ive seen evidence  Mr N contacted the retailer in October 2017,  not September 2017 as hed 
first thought.  The retailer said the guarantee  started  at the point  of sale and ran for five years 
and therefore  Mr N was outside of this when he contacted them about the fault.  But I dont 
agree. Ive looked at the guarantee which says it starts 5 years from the date of delivery not 
the point of sale. So the guarantee would  still have been in place at that point, as he 
complained about the issue to the retailer  just before the expiry of the five year period from 
when he took delivery.
Ive seen that when the retailer inspected the chair,  they said that although  they werent able 
to obtain the part needed to repair the chair,  and that even if they had been able to, it 
wouldnt have been covered under the guarantee in any event. However, the guarantee 
covers recliner actions and motors, so I think its arguable that the electrical  components 
and control panel  to operate  the recliner actions in the chair might  be covered by this 
Ref: DRN12376283guarantee  and indeed  the retailer seems  to now accept that Mr Ns faulty part was in fact 
covered. 
But in any event, the guarantee also says the retailer reserves  the right to undertake the 
least cost option  to itself.  This may involve rectifying the problem,  arranging  for the 
unsatisfactory component to be replaced or refunding part of the original  purchase  price. 
The retailer  said they initially tried to repair the chair,  and when they were unable to do so, 
they offered  Mr N a price  reduction based  on the original purchase price. They also 
confirmed the offer they made took into account the use Mr N had of the chair, and they felt 
it met the terms of the guarantee. 
Although the amount offered was arguably on the low side,  Barclays  offered Mr N more  
compensation than the retailer had under the terms of the guarantee, and Ive commented 
below on why I think that total amount was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr N has provided a copy of a ten year manufacturing warranty which he feels is applicable. 
He also feels that the parts shouldve been available to repair  the chair   regardless of what  
was or wasnt covered  under  the guarantee. Whilst the retailer has said this warranty wasnt 
offered when Mr N bought  the chair, I have  some sympathy for Mr N here. 
But even though the manufacturer  may now offer a ten year warranty  on the wooden frames, 
they only offer a two year warranty  on systems and mechanisms.  So I dont think its 
unreasonable that electronic parts for Mr Ns make and model of chair may not have been 
available directly from the manufacturer after five years.   
Here the retailer arranged for an initial inspection and offered Mr N £75 as a gesture of 
goodwill towards  repairing  the handset buttons  on the chair. The retailer  says it sent Mr N a 
cheque for this amount. However,  Barclays  considered the chair shouldve lasted a bit longer 
 so they made Mr N an offer of £250.  
In considering the reasonableness of this amount, I note that Barclays told us theyve been 
able to contact  various  repairers whove suggested that it would be possible to replace the 
whole electronic system  for around  the cost of compensation offered to him. However,  Mr N 
has told us he no longer has the chair  for the repairer to look at it, so its not possible for me 
to say whether  the compensation amount wouldve covered this. 
So based  on what Ive seen, Im persuaded the chair was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr 
N received it. However, I think  Barclays made a reasonable offer to Mr N as I think it 
reasonably remedies the breach.
I invited Mr N and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays accepted  the provisional decision and 
stood by their original £250  offer.  
Mr N accepted my decision.  However, he said in summary:
He had the paperwork which said the frame  was under warranty  for 10 years so he 
felt any spare parts  should also have been available for this length of time;
Barclays didnt tell him they had contacted other  companies who couldve repaired 
the electrical circuit, or he wouldve  accepted their offer;
Ref: DRN12376284The retailer didnt offer him compensation for the cost of the chair - the £75 was a 
gesture of goodwill.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
Ive taken Mr Ns comments into account, but Ive come to the same conclusion to the one I 
reached in my provisional decision.
Mr N feels replacement parts shouldve been available  for the length of time the frame was 
under warranty.  As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I have sympathy for Mr N in 
regards to this, but the warranty notes that systems  and mechanisms are only guaranteed 
for two years. And as Mr Ns chair  broke  outside of this time period, I cant  say Barclays 
acted unreasonably towards  him by not awarding  more  compensation because the parts  
required werent available.
Mr N says Barclays didnt tell him there were other companies who couldve  repaired his 
chair, and I agree. However, Ive seen  that Barclays did offer Mr N £125 towards the cost of 
an independent inspection which he declined. Mr N has said he told Barclays this was 
because he couldnt  get someone to inspect the chair  but I havent seen any evidence  of 
this. And as mentioned above,  as Mr N no longer has the chair Im unable  to confirm 
whether the compensation amount wouldve covered any required repairs.  So I cant  say that 
Barclays treated Mr N unfairly. 
Mr N has said he was told the £75 from the retailer was a gesture of goodwill and not 
compensation. There appears  to have been some confusion from the retailer  on the dates of 
the guarantee as initially they thought Mr Ns chair had broken outside of the five years,  and 
offered him the £75 as a gesture of goodwill. However, once they were  made  aware of the 
error they explained  the £75 was a compensation payment to take into account what  was left 
of Mr Ns guarantee period.
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr N as its not the outcome he was hoping  for. But 
based on everything Ive seen,  I dont agree Barclays should pay him more than the £250 
theyve offered him.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  
So my decision is that Barclays  Bank  Plc should pay Mr N £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237628