K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that MBNA Limited  mis-sold Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) with a 
credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 1999 Miss C took out a credit card by postal  application and at the same time PPI was 
added to the account. The PPI was designed to protect the card payments in the event Miss 
C couldnt work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment.
It cost 68 pence for every £100 Miss C owed on the card and it paid a monthly benefit of 3% 
of the card balance upon a successful claim.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  She said she thought Miss C chose to 
take out the policy and there  was nothing to suggest  shed lost out to the extent that she 
should get back everything she paid for the policy. But she said MBNAs offer to pay back to 
Miss C some  of the commission it received was fair.
Miss C disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out approach to handling PPI 
complaints on our website  and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding  this 
complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided that Miss C hasnt lost out to the extent 
that I think she should get back  everything  she paid for PPI. I say this because:
I think MBNA made it clear  that Miss C didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I can see the postal application Miss C completed  and sent back  contained a 
separate section  for PPI and it asked the applicant to tick one of two boxes  Yes or 
No  in relation to PPI. Miss Cs application  contained a tick in the Yes box.
Miss C says she doesnt believe she ticked the box. But this was an application Miss C 
completed herself and sent back to MBNA  there was no MBNA representative 
interaction during  the sale. Im also mindful  that Miss C appears to have taken care in 
completing all of the sections on the credit card application. So if Miss C didnt want PPI I 
would have expected her to have ticked the No box.
 
It strikes me as unlikely  that she missed  out this section leaving it blank and that it was 
ticked later on by a member of MBNA staff during the processing of the application. 
So overall I think Miss C did more likely than not tick to take out PPI on her application 
and she has simply now forgotten than she did so.
Ref: DRN13414642Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. For example I dont think MBNA  told her everything about  the cost in a 
clear way. And although it says the application accompanied other information about 
PPI, I dont  think MBNA did enough to clearly highlight the significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover.
But Ive found  that Miss C chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Miss C couldnt tell us whether she had any 
sick pay she could use to help her out, but given the tenure of her job at the time,  Im not 
persuaded this would have been  significant.  In addition she didnt have any savings she 
could have relied on. It also looks  like the policy was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put Miss C off taking out the cover.  
This means MBNA  doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Miss C hasnt lost out by having PPI to 
the extent that she should  get back everything  she paid for it.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I 
make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1341464