K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
July 1999. Mr and Mrs G say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them  PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they were sold the PPI during  a meeting. I cant  say for certain  what  
the discussions involved. HSBC has provided a copy of the mortgage application. Within  
this application  there  is a section for PPI and it has been selected  by Mr and Mrs G. This 
indicates that there was a discussion about PPI and whether Mr and Mrs G wanted to 
protect their mortgage repayments. The mortgage  application form has also been 
signed, and I wouldve  expected them to query  anything within  it before doing  so. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs G knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN11681492HSBC doesnt  know if it advised  Mr and Mrs G to take out the PPI. I have looked  at their 
complaint on the basis that the PPI was recommended to them as this holds HSBC  to a 
higher standard. HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for them. And the evidence  
about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them. For example  Mr and Mrs G were eligible for 
the cover  and although they had existing means they still seem to have had a need for 
cover. I say this because  the PPI wouldve also paid out alongside any employee  
benefits Mr and Mrs G wouldve received. It also wouldve paid out for longer than these 
benefits. Mr and Mrs G have  also told us they didnt  have any other  insurance  or savings 
they couldve relied on. So I think the policy wouldve been of use if either  of them  were  
unable to work. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Gs employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Mrs G says she was in good health at the time of sale. 
Mr G says he had existing  medical conditions at the time of sale. However,  I dont think it 
was wrong for HSBC  to have recommended it. I say this because  the conditions  Mr G 
has told us about occurred sometime before the sale of the PPI. They  both appear to 
have been managed  with medication  and treatment, and Mr G hasnt told us about  any 
extended periods  of time he had to take off work because of them. There  were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  and back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs G as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs G have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Gs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN11681493This means  HSBC doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1168149