K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that a hire purchase  agreement  was mis-sold to her by Renault  Retail  
Group UK Limited and that it incorrectly sent the registration for the car to her mother. Shes 
being helped  with her complaint by her representative.
background
Miss O and her mother went to a dealer in November 2015 as they both wanted  a new car. 
A car was supplied  to Miss O under a finance agreement and that doesnt form part of 
Miss Os complaint. She says that the finance  application for her mothers  car wasnt  
approved so she also entered into a hire purchase agreement for that car which she signed  
in November 2015. The registration  document for the car was sent to Miss Os mother. 
Miss Os relationship with her mother has broken down and she asked  the finance provider 
for an early termination quote to release her from the agreement. But it said that shed need  
to return the car - and she cant do so because her mother has the car and is the registered 
keeper of it. 
She complained to Renault Retail which didnt agree that thered been any fraudulent  activity  
because Miss O signed the hire purchase agreement knowing the car was for her mother. It 
also said that the dealer had agreed  to buy the car back from Miss O and that she had the 
right to voluntarily terminate the agreement.  Miss O wasnt satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He was persuaded 
that Miss O had sufficient  opportunity to make an informed decision prior to going ahead with 
the agreement  and that all parties  agreed to the set up at the time.
Miss O has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  Shes  provided  the 
following documents in support of her complaint:
a letter  from her representative to the DVLA confirming  that the registration document 
was submitted by the dealer;
an insurance certificate showing her as the policyholder;
forms from the dealer  about the finance process;
an e-mail  from the finance  provider;
a voluntary termination  letter  from the finance  provider;
a response from the police about  the car being  stolen;  and
e-mails from the information commissioners office.
She says that the dealer failed to register the car in her name when she took out the finance  
and that its acted fraudulently but she has no option  but to continue paying for the car 
because she cant have  a default recorded against  her. She says that this has been very 
distressing and unnerving and she wasnt comfortable with having two finance agreements 
but was forced into the agreement. She says that she cant  afford  the car and her mother  
has refused to cooperate or to help to rectify the mistakes. She says the dealer suggested  
that she try to get the registration document fraudulently changed into her name. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Miss O for the break-
Ref: DRN12000982down of her relationship with her mother,  the issues that shes  dealing  with and the financial 
difficulties that shes  experiencing. 
Miss O signed the hire purchase agreement and a summary document in November 2015. 
The summary document said:
This is a written summary of an oral explanation  about certain  features of your credit 
agreement, which we have asked the dealer to explain to you. This is yours to keep  
and you can take it away with you, together  with the Standard  European Consumer 
Credit Information. You should consider this information. ... By signing below, you are 
acknowledging that you have been  given an oral explanation of the matters referred 
to above; confirming receipt of this Written Summary and confirming that you have  
considered whether you can afford  the monthly payments under the agreement 
together with any future change which may occur in your circumstances which might 
affect your ability to meet your repayment obligations. If you have any questions,  
please ask the dealer or contact Customer Services .
Immediately above  her signature  on the agreement it says:
This is a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
Miss O visited the dealer  with her mother and Ive seen  no evidence to support her claim that 
she was forced into signing the agreement by her mother or the dealer.  The dealer and 
Miss O have  given very different accounts of what happened. I consider  it to be more  likely 
than not that Miss O agreed to enter  into the agreement for the car to be supplied to her 
mother and that the dealer sent the registration  document to Miss Os mother  because thats 
to whom the car had been supplied.  I consider  it to be more  likely  than not that that was 
acceptable to Miss O at that time because that reflected  what  was happening.  And I dont 
consider it to be likely  that at that stage the potential consequences of that were  considered.  
The registration document being  supplied to Miss Os mother  only became relevant when 
their relationship broke down and Miss O wanted  to voluntarily the agreement  so needed to 
return the car. The credit provider says that the agreement can be voluntarily terminated  
without the need for the car to be registered in the name of Miss O  but she would need to 
ensure that its available for collection.  And I can see that thats a problem for Miss O. 
Miss O says that the dealer  has suggested that she should  fraudulently  transfer the 
registration of the car to her name.  She obviously shouldnt act fraudulently and, if it did, the 
dealer shouldnt have made any such suggestion to her. 
This is a family dispute and the issue isnt that the cars registered to Miss Os mother but 
that she has it and wont return  it so Miss O cant voluntarily terminate the agreement.  
I consider that that issue is best resolved by the family members  - to the extent that thats 
possible. I dont  consider  that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Renault  Retail Group to take any action in response to Miss Os complaint.
Miss O says that shes suffering financial difficulties. If she hasnt already done so, I suggest  
that she explains her financial difficulties to the credit provider. Its required to respond  to any 
financial difficulties that shes experiencing positively and sympathetically. It says that if she 
voluntarily terminates the agreement it will waive any damage or excess mileage charges so 
Miss O will have no further  liability  under the agreement  and it will be closed.
Ref: DRN12000983my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1200098