K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about the service she received  from Mary Henderson. She took 
advice in order to set up a pension plan but there was delay  and a plan wasnt  set up for her. 
This meant that she lost the opportunity  to make pension contributions and so lost out on the 
tax relief that would  have  applied.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below. I said that I intended to uphold  this complaint and explained why. I said that Mary 
Henderson should pay Mrs M £478.75  for investment loss and £400 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Mary Henderson accepted the provisional decision.
Mrs M also accepted the decision  but reiterated  that she felt badly let down by Mary  
Henderson and also that she felt her pension could have been arranged  sooner than I had 
said. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional  decision  and given that both parties accept 
it, I see no reason to change the conclusions Ive reached. I uphold this complaint.
I do note what Mrs M has said.  I appreciate that these  issues have caused inconvenience  
and there  will be some future impact  whilst  Mrs M deals with the issue of tax relief. But I 
have increased  the award for distress and inconvenience to reflect  this. I also note her 
comments regarding the time taken  to arrange  her pension, but Im satisfied that the period 
Ive proposed is reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Mary Henderson. Mary Henderson  must  pay Mrs M £478.75 
for investment loss and £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15732482Extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M has complained about the service she received from Mary Henderson. She took advice in 
order to set up a pension plan but there was delay and a plan wasnt set up for her. This meant that 
she lost the opportunity  to make pension  contributions and so lost out on the tax relief that would  have 
applied.
background
Mrs M met with a representative  of Mary Henderson  in late 2017. It seems to have been agreed that a 
pension plan would be set up for Mrs M to receive  monthly contributions from her salary.
Mrs M recalls that there was no further meeting until March 2018. When a meeting did take place  she 
says that it largely repeated  the earlier  meeting. There  was then a further meeting  in September 2018 
which followed a number of attempts  to arrange one. By this time Mrs M was eager to progress 
matters a she was conscious of the annual allowances  that would apply.
Matters didnt  progress  to Mrs Ms satisfaction and she made  a complaint in November 2018.  Mary  
Henderson didnt formally respond to the complaint but agreed to waive its fees for arranging the 
pension. However, the pension wasnt arranged and Mrs M instructed another firm to help her. A 
pension was them arranged from May 2019.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He thought  it should be upheld.  He was satisfied  
that there had been delays which  Mary Henderson  was responsible for and without  these delays a 
pension could  have  been  arranged  to accept contributions for the 2018/19 tax year.  As no pension  
was arranged Mrs M hadnt made contributions  and so had lost out on the tax relief she would have 
benefitted from.  
The adjudicator said that Mrs M had intended to pay £450 per month into the pension and so make an 
annual contribution of £5,400.  This would  have attracted  tax relief of £1,350. He also said that she 
had lost out on the growth  on her full contribution. And further, he proposed an award of £200 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She felt the award for trouble and upset  was too low. She pointed out all the 
inconvenience she had suffered when dealing  with Mary Henderson and said that she had to pay her 
new adviser a fee when Mary Henderson had agreed to waive theirs.
Mary Henderson  didnt  agree. It explained that it was only in December  2018,  after an adviser had 
left, that it realised the business didnt have the necessary permissions to arrange the pension plan. It 
thought this had been explained to Mrs M but had no record of any explanation. It agreed to pay £200 
for the trouble  and upset but disagreed with the other awards.  It felt that Mrs M had only missed  four 
monthly contributions  at most.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I agree with the adjudicator that the complaint should be upheld  but I 
think any redress should  be assessed differently and so Ive decided to issue this provisional decision.
My current view is that the complaint should be upheld.  Mary  Henderson appears to accept, implicitly 
if not expressly, that there was delay by it. But it expressly states that it didnt have the permissions 
necessary to provide  the service Mrs M had requested  and it cannot provide any record of telling  her 
this. I think  its likely  that if Mrs M had been told that Mary Henderson couldnt help her, she would 
Ref: DRN15732483have looked for help elsewhere and had a pension arranged in time to utilise her 2018/19 tax 
allowance.
However, Im not satisfied  that it necessarily follows that Mrs M has lost the entire benefit of tax relief 
from that year (£1,350). Thats because the tax rules do allow unused  tax relief from previous years 
(up to three) to be used.  Although the annual tax relief available will be capped by the total annual 
earnings. This annual cap will complicate matters for Mrs M as she was hoping to pay a large  
proportion of her earnings into her pension. However,  on the figures she has given  there would  still be 
some room for additional future contributions.
So Im not currently  satisfied  that Mrs M will lose out on the benefit of tax relief.
However, I am satisfied that Mrs Ms pension  planning  has been set back. Her investment has been 
delayed and she may have to spread future contributions to catch up over three years or so. So I 
think it is fair that she should be compensated for that potential loss.
I think  that Mrs M ought to have had a pension in place and been able to invest by 1 December 2018. 
So I think it would be fair to award a sum equivalent  to the growth that would have been achieved on 
her annual  contribution (including tax relief)  from that date until now.  The FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Income Total  Return Index should be applied to calculate growth.  The index gives a figure of 7.09 per 
cent (between 3 December  2018 and 10 December 2019) which  when applied to £6,750 produces  a 
loss of £478.75.
Im satisfied that Mrs M has been inconvenienced  by the poor service provided  by Mary Henderson. 
And there will be a degree of continuing inconvenience  as she will need  to give attention to her future 
pension contributions so as to maximise the benefit  of tax relief  and minimise any loss. I think an 
award of £400 is fair in all the circumstances.
I intend  to uphold  this complaint and award £478.75 and £400  for the distress and inconvenience. 
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint. This is my provisional decision and it may change  depending on the 
responses I receive.
Ref: DRN1573248