K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to make a chargeback  
against a holiday  club company. 
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs F entered into a contract  with a holiday  company I will call R and paid 
£2,568 by debit card. They paid a further £9,450 by bank transfer a few weeks  later.  In 2018 
they felt R wasnt providing the services it had claimed and wrote  to the bank to ask it to 
make a chargeback.
The bank said that it was unable to do so. It explained that under Visas  rules a chargeback 
claim can only be made within 120 days.  It said this can be extended to 540 days  if the 
service is to be ongoing and this meant the last date a chargeback could have been raised 
against the debit card transaction  was the 7 July 2016.  
NatWest also said that it no rights to seek a refund  of the payment made by bank  transfer as 
this type of payment is not covered by the chargeback rights provided  by Visa. Mr and Mrs F 
brought their complaint  to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said the rules  for chargebacks were as set out by the bank and she couldnt  ask it to 
make a chargeback  to Visa when it fell outside  the time limits. She explained the protection 
offered by chargeback is limited and there is no wiggle room.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  and said they had suffered a loss at the hands of R. They felt that 
if PPI claims could  succeed without time limit then it was reasonable that they too should be 
able to claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs F who clearly feel they have been misled  by R, but 
the bank has to operate within the rules. Payments by debit card carry limited protection  and 
bank transfers  even less. The bank was asked to make chargeback. But it has explained 
that it is unable  to do so. 
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the Card Scheme- in this case Visa. It allows  
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods  or 
services they've paid for. There's no automatic  right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback  a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. Visa checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback  reasons  to see whether the claim  will be successful. If the bank feels  
that a claim won't  be successful, they don't have to raise  a chargeback.
Visa has time limits within  which it will consider  a chargeback claim and as the bank has 
explained Mr and Mrs F fell well outside  those limits.  If it submitted chargeback Visa would 
simply refuse it. The bank is also right to say that the bank transfer isnt covered by the 
chargeback scheme.  Quite simply the bank isnt obliged to pay Mr and Mrs F for transactions  
Ref: DRN15147512they made with a third party. NatWest hasnt done  anything wrong. I know they say they 
have been advised that Rs bank will refund NatWest, but that is not the case. 
The rules  for PPI are different and in this case the bank  hasnt  misled  or mis-sold anything. 
The allegedly guilty party is R, not NatWest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1514751