K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled things with her 
following a scam.
what happened
In May 2018, Miss S sent £320 to a fraudster who was pretending to be a legitimate loan 
company. She then realised it was a scam  and reported it to Barclays.
Miss Ss transfers had already gone through, so Barclays  contacted the receiving bank  to 
see if they could  get the money  back for her. However, the receiving bank said the money 
was already gone.
The transfers brought Miss Ss account into an overdraft. She explained  she was very 
stressed and worried. She had bills to pay and children to look after.
Miss S had a lot of contact with Barclays  in the following days, mostly over the phone but 
also in branch. Shes explained her complaint is not about the scam, but the customer  
service. For example, she was passed  between different departments, was told to go to the 
branch and the branch  couldnt help, and she was sent standard  letters  rather  than letters  
customised to her situation. She said that while some staff members  were professional  and 
helpful, others treated her badly.
Barclays said they were not responsible for the scam and did not have to give Miss S a 
refund. But they refunded the £320 in full anyway as a gesture of goodwill. They  also waived 
her overdraft charges.  And they apologised for their customer service and paid Miss S £175 
further compensation for those issues.
Miss S did not feel this resolved  her complaint. She asked for us to listen  to her calls with 
Barclays. She said she wanted a letter of apology  and more compensation. She explained 
she didnt know how much more  compensation she wanted and would like some guidance 
from our service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint,  including listening to her calls with Barclays. 
She said she was really sorry to hear about everything Miss S had gone through. She 
explained that Barclays had already paid compensation within  our guidelines, so she didnt 
think she needed to tell them to do something different.
Miss S said she understood, but didnt agree. She asked for the case  to go to the next stage. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide,  as the final stage in our process.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to Miss Ss calls 
with Barclays.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ref: DRN10982072Ill first clarify that Barclays  have already refunded  all the money  that Miss S lost from the 
scam and waived her overdraft charges.  And shes explained that her complaint is about  the 
way she was treated  rather than the scam itself. So this decision focuses on Miss Ss points 
about the customer service Barclays gave her.
I can see that Miss S has been through a truly tough time. I understand that the scam  will 
have caused her a great deal of trouble and upset,  not least  when she has other people 
depending on her. And so having  customer service issues on top will naturally have made 
her feel even worse in an already difficult time. I agree with Miss S that Barclays could have 
done things better, such as not passing her back and forth between  so many people.
I understand why Miss S would like a letter  of apology from Barclays. Its not an unusual 
thing to ask for. The problem is that if I were to tell Barclays  to apologise, then any apology  
they made would  seem  forced, and not genuine  they would only be saying sorry because 
I told them to. So that doesnt seem likely to resolve  the problem.
Further, I can see that Barclays apologised to Miss S in their letter  of 18 May 2018.  They  
said they wanted to apologise  for the service Miss S had experienced, were sorry they 
couldnt get her money back from the other bank, and were sorry she had to complain. As 
the complaint  still came  to me, its clear that this apology  did not repair  the relationship 
between Barclays and Miss S. So it doesnt  seem likely that another  apology  would help 
either. And so I have  not told Barclays to send  a further letter  apologising.
Instead of telling businesses to apologise, we often tell them  to pay compensation, to 
recognise the impact  that mistakes have.  Its not possible to undo  the hurt thats been done, 
but compensation helps by recognising that a business got something wrong and it had an 
unfair impact on someone.
When it comes  to the amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind  that the scam itself 
will have been responsible for a large proportion  of Miss Ss distress and trouble. And 
Barclays isnt responsible for the scam itself here  that was caused by the scammer. It was 
the customer service issues afterwards that Barclays caused.
Its also worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints, and not to punish 
businesses. We award  compensation as a way of getting businesses to recognise the 
impact of errors in a measurable, consistent  way. Were not here to issue  large fines  or 
punishments.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation  to award,  and we need to be 
consistent. I do appreciate why Miss S has asked for more  compensation, and as I said 
above I know shes had to deal with a lot of stress and upset. But Barclays  have already paid 
her an amount in line with what we would have awarded. So I dont think  it would be fair for 
me to award further compensation when theyve already paid what I wouldve told them  to.
Ref: DRN10982073my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont make  any further award in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 219.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1098207