K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the settlement Ageas Insurance Limited paid to them 
to resolve their claim made to it after water came  through the kitchen ceiling from a crack in 
their bath.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs C noticed  a bubble of water on the kitchen ceiling. They 
investigated and got a plumber out. A hairline crack was found in the bath. A bowl was 
placed under  the crack in the bath so the overhead shower could still be used.
On 20 February 2018 Mr and Mrs C notified a claim to Ageas. Ageas asked Mr C for photos 
of the bath and damaged ceiling, as well as for quotes for repair. Mr C sent all these to 
Ageas in March  2018. Ageas considered  the quote, which was for reinstating the bathroom, 
and felt it was over-scoped  for example including removal and reinstatement  of the sink 
and toilet. Mr C said that was necessary due to the small size of the bathroom.  Ageas said it 
would send an assessor out to view the damage.
The assessor visited on 13 April 2018. He felt the colour of staining on the kitchen ceiling 
suggested it had been subject to water from above over a period  of time. He thought
Mr and Mrs C would  or should have known water  damage was occurring. Ageas  covered the 
cost of replacing the bath under the accidental damage cover on the policy  but said it wasnt  
liable for repairing (or the cost of repairing) the kitchen ceiling.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this service. They confirmed they had the bathroom work 
completed but didnt  repair the kitchen ceiling.
Our investigator noted the expert opinion of Ageas loss adjuster and felt it was reasonable 
for that to have  been relied upon  by Ageas as reason to decline that part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs C were disappointed. They provided  a report from the plumber. This was sent to 
Ageas. Ageas said the report, for it, changed nothing; it believed the damage on the kitchen 
ceiling was in line with the edge  of the bath and that water may have been carelessly spilt 
over the side of the bath over a period of time causing this damage.
The complaint was passed  to me to consider.  I felt Ageas should replace, or pay to replace 
the ceiling, I issued a provisional decision,  the findings of which  were:
For me there are three key issues that lead me to conclude that Ageas should replace 
Mr and Mrs Cs ceiling.
Neither the loss adjuster nor Ageas  seems  to have taken into account  that when it viewed 
the damaged  kitchen  ceiling two months had passed  since  Mr and Mrs C noticed the 
damage and took action  to find and stop the water. Water damage will stain  as it dries. The 
photos Ive seen dont suggest  stain upon  stain  as you might  see if water damage  has 
occurred to a ceiling overtime (drying in between use before being subjected  to water again).
The plumbers account of his involvement,  whilst  given quite some time later, does seem in 
line with the notes Ageas recorded when Mr C contacted it in February 2018. And both of 
these accounts  are supported to some extent by photos of the bath which show a bowl was 
placed underneath it. So I find the plumbers report as a whole  is likely  accurate and, 
therefore, is generally persuasive.
Ref: DRN16930662I see the bowl under the bath is fairly near the leading  edge. There is no dispute that the 
bath was cracked. A crack in the bath will likely  allow water through  each  and every  time the 
bath is used, either for bathing or showering.  In contrast Ageas says its possible the shower  
(and/or bath)  were used  carelessly with water  being  allowed to escape the bath and/or 
shower curtain. Its a possibility, but in my view the most  likely cause is the crack in the 
bath. And I bear in mind that the bath panel  and vinyl flooring created a waterproof 
membrane that would have prevented most  spilt water from soaking through  the floor and 
into the ceiling below. Im further mindful  that the floorboards of the bathroom  whilst found to 
be soaked when  the bath panel was removed, werent suffering from mould  or rot as one 
might expect them to be if theyd been subjected  to on-going long-term water ingress.
On balance I think its most likely the ceiling was damaged as a result of the accidental  
damage to the bath and that Mr and Mrs C took action  to resolve that as soon as they were 
aware of it. As the ceiling hasnt been repaired Ageas should arrange  to have the work done 
as soon as possible. However,  Im aware that an asbestos test may be necessary and that 
Mr and Mrs C believe it will need completely  re-boarding. Currently Ageas  seems to think  it 
can be patched   but I think  patching  may not be possible if asbestos is found.  Once  the 
asbestos issue is resolved, if Ageas still thinks a patch repair  can be done,  then I see no 
good reason to say it should  have  to forego that and move  straight  to complete re-boarding.  
Whilst I see Mr and Mrs C say their contractor  said he couldnt  complete a satisfactory repair  
by patching the ceiling, that doesnt  mean that Ageas contractor wont  be able to.
I think that apart from its decision regarding the ceiling Ageas handled the claim reasonably.  
Its adjuster didnt go out until April, but I see it was March before Ageas had the evidence it 
had asked for and was able to review its liability. Its decision  regarding  the ceiling  has left 
Mr and Mrs C with an unsatisfactory decorative  finish in their kitchen, but Im not persuaded 
that will have caused them  too much upset  and inconvenience. Therefore, Im not going to 
say Ageas should pay any compensation to them.
Ageas said it felt it was reasonable  for it to have  relied, and still rely, on the findings from its 
surveyors report which stated the house  in general was showing signs of wear  and tear and 
that the colouring of the stain  meant it had been damaged over a prolonged period  of time. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted  my findings. But they asked about what  happens next and what  
Ageas will be liable  to do following  my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ageas view of its experts findings.  But I understood that when I made  and 
issued my provisional findings. Nothing  its said in response makes me think  my provisional  
findings were wrong, unfair or unreasonable in any way. My provisional findings now form 
part of this, my final decision.
I explained provisionally that following my final decision Ageas will have to reinstate 
Mr and Mrs Cs ceiling. Id clarify it is bound to follow my final decision if Mr and Mrs C 
accept it within the deadline set.
I also explained that prior to looking to carry out a repair of the ceiling, Ageas will have to 
Ref: DRN16930663test it for asbestos as what  is necessary for it do in repair  may depend  upon  those  results.  
Once the tests  results  are back and Ageas decides what type of repair  it intends  to complete 
 whether that is a patch repair or re-boarding  or replacement of the whole ceiling for 
example, it should  tell Mr and Mrs C. They can then decide if they are happy with the 
proposal or whether they want to challenge it further. I appreciate  this leaves  a level of 
uncertainty for Mr and Mrs C, which understandably theyd rather  avoid  but until Ageas 
knows what it wants to do, communicates that and a further complaint is made  about  that 
intention, this service  cant comment on whether its fair and reasonable or not.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to repair or replace, as 
appropriate, Mr and Mrs Cs kitchen ceiling.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1693066