K822xcomplaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the interest hes been charged on his credit card with NewDay  Ltd t/a 
Aqua. And generally hes displeased  with the customer service hes received.
background 
An adjudicator has already considered this complaint. Overall she felt she wasnt able to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. She believed the interest  charged was in accordance with the 
account terms and conditions. She also thought that Aqua offering to pay Mr T a further £50 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
In light of Mr T not agreeing with this view,  the case has now been  referred  to me for 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr T claims  he paid the amount he owed in full in order  to maintain his credit  file in good 
order. He says he shouldnt have been  charged  the extra interest. 
I do appreciate that Mr T is very unhappy with this whole situation. But Im afraid that I too 
agree with the adjudicators findings, for broadly  the same reasons. 
As a responsible credit provider, Aqua had a duty to record Mr Ts payment history 
accurately. Having considered all the evidence provided to this service, I believe they did 
this. 
As I understand Mr T was granted a repayment holiday from 13 June  2018  to 12 September  
2018. Mr T then paid off the balance on his credit  card before the end of the agreed  
repayment holiday. As Mr T paid off the balance before the payment holiday ended, the 
interest was back dated to when the last payment  was received. Interest was therefore 
applied to Mr Ts account. I think the interest  applied was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
I note Mr T paid Aqua the outstanding sum in full on 27 December 2018. However in light of 
Mr T not making payments towards  the account  from 15 September to 27 December 2018,  
he was issued with a default notice  on 20 December 2018. I cant  say Aqua was wrong to do 
this as Mr T had breached  his credit agreement. 
I cant accept that any strongly  worded letters from Aqua to Mr T were inappropriate. As the 
adjudicator has already  pointed out, Aqua had regulatory responsibilities  that they had to 
adhere to. A balance  was outstanding on the account, so Aqua was entitled to contact Mr T 
for payment. And I cant say for sure that the actions  taken by Aqua were the only 
contributing factor to other issues which  Mr T then experienced  with different banks. 
I appreciate Mr T is very upset by the whole situation. Aqua has already credited Mr Ts 
account with £20 as a gesture of goodwill.  Theyve  now agreed to pay Mr T a further £50 
compensation in recognition of the service issues he has experienced. I believe this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN11371172my final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd t/a Aqua  should pay Mr T a further £50 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1137117