K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that the underwriter  of his car insurance policy  - Watford  Insurance  
Company Europe  Limited (Watford)  didnt continue to provide insurance  when  he changed 
his car. 
All references to Watford in my decision include the administrator. 
background 
Mr W bought a car insurance  policy through a broker  in October 2017. In June 2018 Mr W 
changed his car and while in the showroom, he contacted the broker to arrange for his new 
car to be added to his policy.  Unfortunately  the broker  wasnt able to do this because  the 
underwriter Watford wouldnt provide insurance for Mr Ws new car. 
Mr W was very unhappy about this. He said he was caused embarrassment  in the 
showroom as he wasnt able to insure  his car. His young son was with him and because  it 
took much  longer to rearrange insurance with the dealership, his son became upset. 
Fortunately the dealership was able to provide  Mr W with free insurance  for seven days. 
Mr W thought  Watford  should  have made  it clear  what it would and wouldnt insure when he 
bought the policy. He said if it had, he would have bought a policy  elsewhere.  He was 
unhappy that he had no option  but to cancel  his insurance and thought it unreasonable to be 
charged a cancellation fee. 
Watford explained that as an underwriter it takes  into account a number of factors  when 
deciding to accept  a risk. The value of Mr Ws new car meant  it was above the threshold of 
risk for Watford. So this meant Watford no longer  accepted the risk. Watford explained that it 
had set out changes that may affect Mr Ws insurance cover in the policy  booklet  provided  
a change of vehicle was one of the changes it mentioned.  Although it said its decision  was 
correct, it waived its cancellation fee and allowed Mr W a further full years  No Claims 
Discount (NCD). Mr W was charged  for the days he was insured under the policy.
Mr W remained unhappy and so he asked  us to look at his complaint. He believed  the policy 
had been mis-sold to him and wanted a full refund. He also wanted compensation for the 
time he had to spend looking  for alternative  insurance  and for the embarrassment he was 
caused at the showroom.  Mr W said his new insurance policy was considerably more and 
this left him financially stretched, having  just bought  a new car. 
Our adjudicator thought Watford had acted  reasonably. She explained that a criteria an 
underwriter sets is commercially sensitive and therefore wasnt  something she could share  
with Mr W. But she was satisfied from the evidence provided that Watford had been  fair to 
Mr W. 
Mr W didnt agree. He believes Watford should  have disclosed something  material such  as 
having a cap on the value  of a vehicle before Mr W bought the policy.  He said if hed known 
about this cap, he wouldnt have bought the policy. Mr W believes he has a right to know  this 
information as he paid for the policy.
Mr W said if the dealership hadnt  provided  insurance, Mr W wouldnt have been able to 
drive his new car that evening and would have  had to pay for a taxi home. 
Ref: DRN17942412So he would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
There is a wide range of insurance available on the open market. Insurers use their own 
commercially sensitive  information to operate their business in order to remain competitive. 
Their insurers underwriting criteria  the list of factors  that sets the risk the insurer relies  on 
when deciding to provide  insurance  forms part of their business sensitive information. For 
this reason, we cant ask an underwriter to share this information with consumers.
However, we are able to look at the underwriting  criteria to see if its been applied correctly   
and therefore  decide whether Mr W has been  treated fairly and in the same way as any 
other customer in the same circumstances. 
When Mr W bought his policy with Watford, this was on the basis  of the information he 
provided at the time. Of course, Mr W is entitled  to make changes  before the policy  ends. 
But some changes may change the risk. So theres  always a possibility  that the policy  Mr W 
bought may no longer be able to provide  insurance.  
Watfords policy booklet explains  that Mr W must tell the broker if he changes his car and 
warned that such  a change might affect his cover. It read:
Once you have told us about the change  we will reassess your cover  and premium. 
For some  changes you may need  to pay an additional premium, for some  changes 
you may get a return premium and some changes may be unacceptable to us.
I understand Mr W believes Watford  should have disclosed its vehicle value cap at the 
outset. But Watford was able to provide insurance for the car Mr W insured at the time he 
bought the policy based on the information  Mr W gave. And I think it made Mr W aware of 
the possibility  that a change to his car might mean cover wouldnt continue  to be provided. 
Ive checked the underwriting information Watford has sent to us and Im satisfied that its 
treated Mr W fairly by applying  its criteria correctly. So I dont think Watford did anything 
wrong here.
An insurer  is entitled to charge a reasonable cancellation fee if a policy is cancelled  
provided it has set out its fees clearly in the policy document. I can see that the broker 
explained the cancellation fees in its Terms of Business document.  But in this case, Watford  
waived the cancellation fee and ensured  Mr Ws NCD  wasnt affected by the cancellation by 
allowing him a full further year. I think this was fair. And this means  Mr W hasnt been 
prejudiced by the cancellation. I dont think Mr W should receive a full refund as Watford 
provided insurance for the days his policy was in place for his previous car. 
I understand Mr W was embarrassed when  he called to change  his car under  his policy  while 
he was at the showroom. But I cant say that Watfords  actions  were  unreasonable.  So I 
dont think its responsible for the distress and inconvenience Mr W was caused in having to 
arrange alternative insurance.  
Ref: DRN17942413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1794241