K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA will not refund a 
payment that it made.
background
S made an overseas payment through PayPal for a visa application by its director. S 
complains that it did not receive the visa. PayPal said that as this payment was made to a 
state body it was not covered under its Buyer Protection scheme.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that under 
Section 13.4.13 of its user agreement PayPal  excluded payments to state-run bodies from 
its Buyer Protection scheme. There was no basis for PayPal  to be required to refund this 
payment. A complaint  about the PayPal  account  for S being restricted  was being looked  into 
separately by this service.
S did not agree. It said that this payment was made  in error and should have come from the 
directors personal account. There was no money in the company account.  The visa was not 
provided even  though  the director had been assured it would. No refund was made. There  
should be protection for payments made overseas  and for this type of payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This payment was made  on 12 September 2017. PayPal has confirmed that this was 
authorised for payment  from S account.  The correct  information about  the account  had been 
entered and all security  checks  were  successful. There was no sign of any unauthorised 
access. I understand that the PayPal account  for S was funded from an account at a 
different financial business.  The related funding payment  was refused by this business on 19 
September 2017. And so future credits from sales by S were used to repay this negative  
balance. 
The payment was first disputed as unauthorised on 25 July 2018. But as set out above  Im 
satisfied it was authorised  correctly.  If as the director says this was made in error then Im 
afraid thats a matter  between S and the director to resolve.
The payment was then disputed again  on 3 August 2018 on a different basis.  This was that 
S now accepted  that it had made the payment but the visa it paid for was not received.  This 
was investigated  by PayPal. Such a payment to a state run body is not covered under the 
Buyer Protection scheme. So the position was that S did not have  a basis  for even  a 
consideration of reimbursement  through PayPal.  
I appreciate that this payment was about  £5,500 sterling equivalent. And that S considers it 
has lost this money. But Im afraid that there  is no further protection available  from PayPal  
for this payment. This service is not the regulator and we do not have a role in saying what  
the financial protection for payments made overseas  of this nature should be. 
I have looked  in this complaint at what PayPal  did. I dont find that it made a mistake  or has 
acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN12384662my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1238466