K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Provident  Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr L had six loans with Satsuma. Some of the information Satsuma provided about the loans 
is summarised in the table  below.
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount
1 11/03/2016 23/09/2016 26 Weeks £300.00
2 19/05/2016 28/10/2016 26 Weeks £520.00
3 28/10/2016 02/06/2017 39 Weeks £1,100
4 09/12/2016 13/01/2017 13 Weeks £140
5 02/06/2017 Outstanding 39 Weeks £1,000
6 28/07/2017 Outstanding 6 Months £400
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. She thought  
Satsuma was wrong to have approved  loan six, as it ought to have realised  from the pattern 
of lending that the loan wasnt  likely  to be sustainable.
Satsuma didnt respond to the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. Since the adjudication, theres  been no ongoing dispute about  loans 1 to 5, so Im 
focussing on loan six in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN18624182the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Satsuma  was wrong  to have approved  the sixth loan in 
July 2017. I think  it ought  to have realised, from the pattern of lending, that further lending at 
this stage was likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Loan six overlapped with loan five and when  these two loans are taken together, this meant 
the overall amount Mr L was borrowing was increasing over time. He had initially borrowed 
£300 in March 2016 and by July 2017 he effectively borrowed  £1,400.
I can also see that loan five started on the same day Mr L had repaid loan three and was for 
only £100 less. So even at the point of loan five, it appeared that Mr L may have been 
borrowing again because  repaying loan three had caused him to have a gap in his finances. 
But if it wasnt clear that Mr L had been  left with a shortfall after taking loan five, I think it 
should have been clear  when he asked for loan six. Needing  to top-up his borrowing shortly  
after taking out a large loan suggests  Mr L wasnt likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.  Its unlikely that, in these circumstances, 
Mr L was in a position  to make repayments  for loan six in a sustainable manner.
This is further supported by what Ive seen  of Mr Ls credit history.  Satsuma hasnt provided 
the results of its own credit checks, but Ive seen that Mr L had five accounts change  to an 
arrears status in the month before he asked for loan six. This included three credit cards, a 
personal loan and a high-cost instalment loan. I think Satsuma likely wouldve (or shouldve 
been) aware of this. Given that Mr Ls ability to pay his existing  commitments  appears to 
have suddenly deteriorated, I think Mr L was unlikely to have been in a position to pay new 
commitments at the time he asked for loan six.
I note that this is borne out by what happened. Mr L was unable to pay loan six (or five) 
according to plan and entered into a debt management plan soon after loan six was 
approved.
Ref: DRN18624183For these reasons, I dont  think  Satsuma  acted fairly  when it approved loan six. So Im 
upholding Mr Ls complaint in part, in respect of that loan.
putting things right
Satsuma should  remove all interest  and charges applied to loan six from the outset and treat 
any payments Mr L made towards it as if they were payments  towards the principal.
If Mr L has already repaid  more than the £400 he borrowed for loan six, Satsuma  should  
refund this amount  but it can apply the refund to the outstanding balance of loan five. 
Once loan six has been repaid Satsuma should  remove it from Mr Ls credit history.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. Provident  Personal Credit Limited must put things right by 
taking the steps  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1862418