K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy about charges that have been taken from his investment. He says Positive 
Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited have been  paid without doing any work  so hed like 
the charges refunded.
background
In 2008, Mr P invested £100,000 into a bond. He took advice from a company that are no 
longer trading  Ill call them company  A. Mr Ps adviser from company A later began 
working for Positive Solutions, so he transferred the servicing rights  of Mr Ps bond to them.  
In 2016, Mr P found out how much money was being taken  out of his bond by way of 
commission so he decided to move the servicing rights to another  advisor and have his 
circumstances reviewed.
Last year, Mr P decided to cash the bond  in  partly due to the commission  structure which  
he anticipated to have reduced the overall value by around £5,000.
Mr P made a complaint to Positive Solutions   he felt the amount theyd taken wasnt  fair 
seeing as he hadnt had any reviews  or advice.  But Positive  Solutions  said they werent 
involved in the original sale and didnt have  to do reviews, so Mr P would be better off 
contacting company A. 
Mr P did contact company  A, but an adviser  on their behalf  said he couldnt recall there 
being any sort of on-going agreement with regards to future advice and that the commission 
payments were associated with the original sale. He suggested  contacting company As 
principal, who Ill call company B, as they were  responsible and could be of further  help. 
Mr P still felt this was unfair, especially given how much Positive Solutions had earned from 
his bond  and could  have gone on to earn had the bond remained in force.   And he did 
remember being told hed receive annual reviews   he showed us the notes he made at the 
time. He felt Positive Solutions were  wrong to have taken payment but not done any work  for 
it, so he asked for our help rather than contacting company B.
Once of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She had some queries around  
what Positive Solutions responsibility  was, so Mr P contacted his bond  provider and was 
able to show the commission paid to Positive Solutions  this was around  £4,300.  
Nevertheless, our investigator didnt  agree  Positive  Solutions had done anything wrong as 
from the original policy  illustration paperwork,  she could see Mr P had agreed to the 
commission, without any on-going agreement for advice. She also made reference to how 
the rules around  commission changed  in later years   following the Retail  Distribution 
Review  so the arrangement might not necessarily work the same  way had Mr P been 
investing now. Mr P remained unhappy  so he asked  for his case to be re-considered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I recognise Mr Ps 
strength of feeling,  I agree with what our investigator said for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN13856562Mr Ps bond  provider has confirmed that commission  from his bond was paid to Positive 
Solutions for six years  between 2010 and 2016. Ive taken a look at some  of the paperwork 
associated with the establishment of Mr Ps bond  in 2008. Amongst other things, the 
illustration said:
There  are charges  which are taken from the payment into your Bond, and charges 
which are taken  from the fund value 
 
The deductions  include the cost of commissions, expenses, charges, any surrender 
penalties and other adjustments  for example, over the first 10 years of the Bond  
the effect of the total deductions could amount to £15,100  
How much will the advice cost?  For arranging your Bond, [bond  provider]  will pay 
commission to your Financial Adviser, [company B/company  A] Commission will be 
paid throughout  the duration of your Bond. The commission amounts will depend  on 
the size of the payment  and your Bond value. 
The yearly amount  we will pay is 0.50% of the value  of the units.  Examples of the 
commission amounts were also explained  in figures.   
And ultimately, there  were mentions of If you have any questions,  contact your 
Financial Adviser, [company B/company  A]. 
Given this, I think the charges and commission that would apply to Mr Ps investment  as 
well as the impact both could have in figures   were clearly explained to him in the form of a 
personalised illustration. But I know that what he is now questioning  is not necessarily the 
existence of those charges, but their worth.
What isnt explained in the illustration is what  if any  work needs  to be done by the firm for 
them to earn  their money.  As Mr Ps adviser  mentioned, he wasnt aware of any agreement 
being drawn up between Mr P and Positive  Solutions as to what   if any  service they 
would be providing  him with. And Positive  Solutions have told us no agreement  existed.  
The fact that ongoing commission payments transferred from company A to Positive  
Solutions doesnt mean there was also a responsibility to provide or reviews. Ive seen 
nothing to show there was a formal agreement between the parties  so I cannot fairly say 
Positive Solutions were  supposed to be doing any work over for Mr P.
I appreciate Mr P feels this isnt fair but paying commission  over time  rather  than all in one 
go up-front  wasnt uncommon for investments  like his before the new rules, as explained 
by our investigator, came into force in 2013. The regulator made it clear that these rules 
werent retrospective. And while charges  were  indeed taken, as Mr Ps adviser mentioned,  
an uplift was applied  to Mr Ps initial investment  so it looks as though £107,250 was 
actually invested  for him, rather than just his principle  sum of £100,000. On this point, the 
illustration said Why does it look as if you are investing more than Ive paid? We do this as a 
way of reducing the overall effect of the charges  we take from your Bond. 
So from all that I have  seen, Mr P was told about the charges and commission associated  
with his investment  from the outset. And I have not seen  any agreement  between Positive 
Solutions and himself  or with company A or B  that promises  any advice or reviews  would  
be provided. So I wont be asking  Positive Solutions to refund  the commission they earned 
here. If Mr P remains unhappy, he may consider approaching company B as they were 
responsible for the suitability of the bond itself.  
Ref: DRN13856563my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr P but my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1385656