K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice he was given to transfer  his existing group 
personal pension  (GPP) benefits into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). Hes also 
complained about the subsequent  poor performance  of the investment within  his SIPP.  
background
Mr H belonged to his company GPP. His regular employer and employee contributions  
ceased in March 2012 as he was in the process  of passing over the administration of the 
scheme.  R&Quiem Financial Services Limited  (R&Quiem)  has said that Mr H wanted to 
maintain his own individual pension plan so that his salary  details  were  kept confidential  
following the change  of administrator within the company. 
Oval Financial Services, as R&Quiem was previously known as, met with Mr H to discuss his 
options and recommended  that he transferred his GPP benefits to a new SIPP and 
recommenced regular  contributions  from his employer by way of salary sacrifice.  It said Mr H 
would have access to a wealth  management  portfolio service through  the SIPP  provider. 
Although as a result  it was noted  that the overall  costs of the new plan would be higher, but 
that Mr H would benefit from ongoing  reviews  and wider investment options in return.  
In June 2013 a further  review recommended that Mr H should stop using the portfolio 
service. This was because, following regular contributions that had been made, new 
investment growth  and a further transfer  into the SIPP,  Mr Hs pension fund was of a size 
that meant  he was eligible for the providers  bespoke  discretionary fund management  (DFM)  
service. An application  was made  for his plan to come under its management. 
In 2014 Oval Financial  Services  became part of another business which took responsibility  
for its advice  after that time. It was subsequently known as R&Quiem.
In 2016 Mr H moved to a different advisory  firm but continued to hold his original SIPP and 
remained invested in its DFM.
By July 2018  Mr H was unhappy with the performance of the portfolio under the DFM so he 
complained. He also complained about  the earlier advice  he was given to move from his 
GPP to the new SIPP. His complaint was made to the various  businesses  that had been 
responsible for giving him advice  this included R&Quiem- and to the provider about the 
performance of its portfolio.
In his complaint  to R&Quiem  Mr H made the following points;
Hed been assured of the reputation of the provider  and the portfolio that was 
recommended. He was told the portfolio was designed to achieve a smooth return,  
but his experience was that it failed  to do that.
He didnt think the portfolio had performed in line with his expectation of a medium 
low risk rated portfolio. 
The performance of the portfolio had been well documented in the press  and his 
understanding was that it was soon to be replaced  indicating  that it was  broken.
R&Quiem said it would investigate and take responsibility for the period from the initial  
advice in 2012 until Oval Financial Services was acquired elsewhere  in 2014. It said it 
believed the advice had been appropriate, as the recommendation was in line with Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN13020432attitude to risk (ATR) and suitable for his overall  financial position. It said the transfer offered 
the opportunity  to improve Mr Hs longer-term situation. But it also maintained that Mr H 
wanted to keep some confidentiality of his finances  away from his employer  and therefore  
the SIPP was an appropriate solution for that situation. R&Quiem  also believed  its advice to 
recommend transferring to the DFM service  2013  was suitable.   
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed now read the original suitability report  from 2012 and felt that 
the combination  of higher  costs and poor performance had led to the value of his pension  
suffering. He said it was R&Quiem advice to transfer to the provider and incur the higher 
charges and poor performance, so it was responsible.   
Unhappy with the outcome Mr H, using a claims management company (CMC) brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He said that Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld. He gave  the following reasons:
A 2008 report on pension switching from the regulator said that a pension  incurring 
extra product  costs without good reason was an example of what might constitute 
unsuitable advice.  He thought that showed  that costs were a factor in the overall 
suitability and in this case Mr H had incurred significantly higher costs on transferring.
The overall charge  of the GPP was 0.65%  - and there were over 300 funds that he 
could switch to free of charge. So he could have remained within  his existing plan 
and switched funds  instead of incurring  new ongoing  charges of 2.1% after 
transferring.
The illustration Mr H received showed  he could potentially be 12.9% worse off at 
retirement, based on the lower end of the industry assumed growth rates.
Mr H was being charged for annual reviews, but he was also paying a fee for the 
DFM to manage his portfolio. 
Mr H told us he wasnt so concerned about his salary details remaining confidential at 
his company and that idea was promoted  by the adviser. In any case his details 
could have been accessed  through other means if his contract  was on file. In the 
investigators view there was no reason why contributions to the GPP couldnt  have 
continued through a salary sacrifice scheme as they had been previously.
Mr H hadnt given  the impression of wanting to adopt a more sophisticated 
investment approach.  He didnt appear to have substantial investment knowledge 
and when asked  wasnt sure was a DFM was. It didnt seem that a DFM  was 
appropriate given  its extra  layer of costs. 
R&Quiem should pay redress by comparing the value of Mr Hs SIPP  with that of a 
benchmark, up to the point  a new business took over advising him. Any losses  
should be paid into his pension plan where  possible.
Mr H accepted the findings  but R&Quiem didnt agree and made the following response:
Mr Hs existing GPP was invested  across three funds. Even if he had switched  into 
any of the other internal and external funds  that were available,  they would still only 
have been single fund solutions. Its recommendation allowed access  to managed 
portfolios and a DFM, which it thought offered a more diverse solution and the ability  
to strategize within Mr Hs agreed ATR  which it noted was not being met by the 
existing GPP funds.
Such advisory portfolios usually require ongoing service and reviews.  If Mr H had 
chosen his own funds its likely that would have  resulted in another unsuitable  
Ref: DRN13020433portfolio. The DFM  had another  advantage whereby  the portfolio composition is 
usually managed daily. 
We hadnt compared costs on a like for like basis.  The 2.1% total cost of the SIPP 
included a 0.50% adviser charge. The cost of the SIPP had fallen to 1.4% by 
June 2013 which meant is was only 0.75% higher than the SIPP. It didnt  believe  this 
was excessive or unfair. 
It believed it had disclosed  its costs  and that Mr H understood and accepted  them at 
the time of the advice. 
It didnt agree that its advice was unsuitable  in respect of the 2008 regulators report  
on pension switching.  It thought there was good reason for any additional  product 
costs.
Mr H was clearly  disappointed with the portfolios investment performance. But 
evidence would  suggest this wasnt caused  by the underlying  (higher) fees.  
The investigator said that the evidence  hed seen didnt suggest that Mr H was an 
experienced investor. He didnt think the investments Mr H held  unit trusts within  a stocks 
and shares ISA, demonstrated  that a DFM was suitable for him. He also thought the number 
of funds available within the GPP, which were  professionally  managed,  would have allowed 
Mr H to remain invested in line with his ATR. He reiterated his view that the SIPP was more 
expensive than the GPP regardless of whether ongoing advice costs were included.
But R&Quiem remained of the opinion that its advice had been suitable  and asked  for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
Ive looked at all of Mr Hs complaints and I can see that theyve been directed to all the 
relevant parties  in this matter  including  the provider. In this complaint Im only concerned 
with the suitability of the advice Mr H was given in 2012 and 2013  to transfer his GPP  
benefits into a SIPP, and subsequently  to invest into the providers DFM.  Ive not looked  into 
any advice after 2014 when another business assumed responsibility, or the overall 
performance of the providers portfolio  and DFM.
R&Quiem outlined its reasons for recommending  the transfer  in its pension transfer report  of 
June 2012. This confirmed Mr H wanted to keep his salary details confidential and because 
the administration of his GPP was being passed to the Human Resources department this 
wouldnt be possible. So, it recommended a transfer to a new individual SIPP.
Although theres  no written confirmation  that Mr H declared this as being important to him, I 
dont dispute that it was a discussion point. I dont think R&Quiem  would have mentioned it 
as an objective  in its report if it hadnt  been  discussed as I dont think  it would  have been  
aware unless Mr H disclosed  the situation  to some extent. But theres no evidence that Mr H 
saw this as the most important reason for a possible transfer,  I think  its reasonable to 
assume that, in the first instance, Mr H would have been more  concerned  with whether a 
transfer would provide  him with greater  retirement provision  and if that was the case  I think 
he would  then have  seen the confidentiality  issue as an extra advantage. 
Ref: DRN13020434Mr H says that he didnt  promote the confidentiality  as being a concern to him. He says his 
salary details are available on company records if someone wants to find them  out. I havent 
seen any evidence detailing the conversation that took place  or that Mr H did raise  this an 
as important issue. But in any case, I dont think justification for the transfer  should  have  
been based on that issue. I note R&Quiem itself has said that it agrees that the matter  of 
confidentiality would not be a good  enough  reason itself to recommend a transfer.
So Ive looked  carefully at the other reasons  that were given to see if they give some 
justification to the recommendation.   R&Quiem has said that Mr H would benefit from an 
ongoing advisory service  if he transferred and would  also benefit from the providers wealth 
portfolio management  service and then a year later its DFM  proposition. But I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that Mr H required such a service or that hed previously used 
them. R&Quiem said Mr H was an experienced investor and would have  seen the 
advantages of such services. But Mr Hs only other  investment was in an ISA, so I dont 
agree that supports his need to use a DFM. 
But of course, the benefit of such services usually  comes at a cost and here R&Quiem 
acknowledged that the charges of the new plan would be higher overall. It confirmed   in its 
illustration  that based on assumed  growth  rates of 5 and 7% Mr H might be £24,000 and 
£27,000 worse off respectively at retirement.  That illustration gave an indication  of the 
potential returns after charges, so it was clear  that they would have a significant  effect  on 
Mr Hs pension fund. In real terms the existing  GPP had an annual management charge of 
0.65% whereas the total calculated annual charge of the new plan was 2.10%.  In addition, 
there was an initial  0.5% transfer charge. 
R&Quiem said that this charge  reduced  to 1.9% in June 2013 with the availability of the 
DFM. It also said that when  comparing costs,  the ongoing advice charge should be ignored 
in comparisons.  But the fact remains that an ongoing cost was included as part of the 
service and that wasnt a cost that Mr H incurred with his GPP.  In any case  the overall  
charges of the SIPP were still higher than the GPP.
 
So, based  on the costs that were disclosed, it seems unlikely that Mr H would be better  off 
as a result  of transferring and theres no evidence to show  that the other benefits would have 
made up for that situation.  Indeed, Mr Hs ATR was agreed as being cautious to moderate , 
and his funds  were invested in line with this ATR. So, given the limited investment horizon 
here until Mr Hs retirement, I think its unlikely that such lower  risk investments would have 
provided the more  sophisticated strategy or the potentially greater growth that R&Quiem 
cited as being  one of Mr Hs objectives.  
I dont dispute  that the investment strategy  R&Quiem set out for Mr H, in line with his ATR 
and with regular  monitoring and rebalancing, were reasons to justify his transfer.  But I dont 
think they outweighed the higher  charges  that he would incur  and R&Quiem  wasnt  able to 
illustrate that hed be better off as a result of the transfer. 
Im not persuaded the reasons were  sufficiently compelling to justify  the extra costs involved 
and Im not persuaded that Mr H had a need  for those services  in any case.
Mr H had access to over 300 funds that he could have  switched  to if he wanted  to diversify 
the investment  strategy of his existing GPP plan. Theres no evidence  that he had been 
looking to do that, but it was an option  available to him when  the administration of the plan 
had been passed over. In my view Mr H could have  achieved his objectives  and invested in 
line with his ATR quite  simply through the additional funds available to his existing plan.
Ref: DRN13020435Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr H's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should R&Quiem  do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, R&Quiem must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
R&Quiem should add interest as set out below.  
If there is a loss, R&Quiem should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If R&Quiem is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £150 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If R&Quiem  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. 
R&Quiem should give Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Ref: DRN13020436SIPP transferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
transfer from 
GPP.date of 
change of 
adviser in 
2014.Any loss up to 
the end date 
in 2014  should 
be brought up 
to date using 
the return from 
the benchmark 
stated.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  R&Quiem 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if R&Quiem totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
Ref: DRN13020437combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean  that Mr H 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that R&Quiem Financial Services Limited  should  pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr H in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302043