K822xcomplaint
The Estate of Mr K (the estate)  is represented  by its solicitors (the solicitors).  The solicitors  
say Clydesdale  Bank Plc (Clydesdale) delayed  payment of the estates inheritance tax 
(IHT)  under the Direct  Payment Scheme (DPS)  causing the estate added costs  and a 
financial loss arising from having to liquidate  stock in the estate at a less favourable  price.
background 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and, in the main, said as follows:
The solicitors sent Clydesdale the estates  IHT423 form  to make the IHT payment  
on 3 August 2018; they had to chase Clydesdale and resend the form to it on 4 
September and again on 11 September; eventually Clydesdale  actioned the form on 
18 September and paid the IHT.
The deadline for IHT payment was 30 September. [This being six months after the 
late Mr K passed away (in March  2018).]
Clydesdale should have acted sooner on the mater but it managed to pay the IHT 
before the deadline. To compensate for the delay, its offer to cover the estates 
expenses (solicitors costs)  and costs (costs of delayed payments to beneficiaries)  
both arising from the delay  was reasonable. It should not have to do any more,  
given that it paid the IHT before the deadline.  Responsibility for any loss arising from 
HMRC requiring a separate  IHT payment from 1 October 2018 because it had yet to 
process Clydesdales payment  is remote to Clydesdale.
The solicitors disagreed with this outcome.  It clarified the case  as follows:
An estate in the relevant jurisdiction requires Confirmation in order  for both its 
moveable and heritable assets to be uplifted and used. 
No interest accrues for IHT on the heritable estate in the first six months after the 
testators passing, it applies thereafter and after a year from the testators passing 
penalties also apply  to unpaid IHT in this respect.
IHT for an estates moveable assets  is payable before Confirmation is granted  and it 
is usually paid early  in the initial  six months  period. In this context, the pursuit was for 
Clydesdale to use assets in the relevant account  to make a direct IHT payment to 
HMRC. It was a matter of making the payment  by CHAPS transfer which should have 
taken between 24 and 48 hours  from receipt  of instruction (including the IHT423 
form). 
Clydesdales delay  in paying the IHT directly led to a delay in obtaining Confirmation. 
The lack of Confirmation meant  a delay to the use and realisation of assets in the 
estate and that then led to delays in payments for creditors, legacies and 
beneficiaries. 
Upon Clydesdales  payment on 18 September the process  was subject to a period of 
10 working days over which HMRC verified accuracy of the payment. By the time this 
was done, the calculation  of IHT was incorrect because IHT on the heritable  estate  
had become due.
The claim relates to Clydesdales delay leading to a delay in obtaining Confirmation 
which then led, specifically, to a delay in executing the beneficiaries instructions to 
liquidate stock (in the estate) in September.  The value that would have been derived  
from liquidation  in September  was more than the value achieved when the liquidation 
eventually took place, after obtaining  Confirmation,  two to three months later.  The 
Ref: DRN10709972estates claim  is that Clydesdale is also responsible for this loss of value  in addition 
to the costs it has offered to cover. 
In essence, Clydesdale delayed between 3 August and 18 September to execute an 
IHT payment that it should have made within 24 to 48 hours from 3 August.
The matter  was referred to an Ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I endorse Clydesdales offer to repay  to the estate  the additional solicitors costs it incurred 
and to repay the costs of delayed payments to its beneficiaries.  I am satisfied by the 
solicitors submissions about how Clydesdales obligation was to make the relevant CHAPS 
payment  under the DPS and to be processed, overall, within  24 to 48 hours [which  is not 
an unreasonable expectation for CHAPS payments]. I consider that it failed to discharge  this 
obligation in requisite time and thereafter  delayed in doing so.
Additional legal costs to the estate and delays in making payments from the estate  to 
relevant beneficiaries were consequences   to be faced by the estate   that should have 
been foreseen by or were foreseeable to Clydesdale in terms of the failure (and delay) found 
above. However, I am not satisfied that the estates claim for financial loss related to the 
stock liquidation arises from something  that should  have  been foreseen  by or was 
foreseeable to Clydesdale.  As such,  I do not uphold this particular claim for loss.
I do not suggest that Clydesdale  could or should not have foreseen that the payment it was 
required to make was connected to the granting of Confirmation  or that Confirmation was 
connected to the estates  ability to administer its assets or that administration of such  assets 
could include their liquidation for beneficiaries. The estates claim for financial loss does not 
have such a generic  basis   even if it did it would still be tested  for merit. It is a precise claim 
based on specific instructions it had to sell stock  at a particular time (in September) and 
based on a fall in the relevant  stock price(s) by the [delayed] time of sale.
The balance of available evidence does not establish that Clydesdale was informed or 
sufficiently aware about the planned  stock sale and/or  about  its timing. The instruction  letter  
given to it on 3 August  is brief, it refers to attachment of the IHT423 form and it asks 
Clydesdale to confirm  when the payment has been  made. It does not mention the planned 
stock sale  I do not suggest  that it should  have, but I note that it did not. It does not appear 
that the plan was shared  with Clydesdale at any other time prior to 18 September.  On 
balance, I am not persuaded  that Clydesdale should  be responsible for such  an unforeseen 
and unforeseeable matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold the complaint only in relation to Clydesdale Bank Plcs 
offer to compensate the Estate of Mr K for the solicitors  costs it incurred and for the costs of 
delayed payments to its beneficiaries.  I order Clydesdale  Bank Plc to make payments to the 
Estate of Mr K to cover these costs (as particularised  by the solicitors). Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Estate of Mr K to accept or reject  
my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Ref: DRN10709973Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1070997