K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains on behalf  of his late wife, Mrs Ws estate  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc should 
not have advised her to take out an offshore bond in her sole name (in 2001) as this would 
have to be encashed in the event of her death.
background
HSBC did not uphold the complaint. It said its advisor recorded that Mrs W met the advisor 
on her own and had not wanted her husband  to be present or for his situation to be taken 
into account. This was her money  which came  from her substantial savings, and she solely 
wanted advice  about how to invest it for her benefit.
It was satisfied that the advisor had offered a suitable recommendation.
Mr W disagreed  with much of HSBCs evidence. He said hed been  in attendance throughout 
the meeting, which had been arranged at his instigation. He had recently received £15,000 
and decided to split this between him and his wife for investment purposes. She did not have 
substantial savings or investment experience, and had never made  investment decisions.
There was an informal discussion during which it would have been  obvious to the advisor 
that any recommendation should allow any proposed investment to transfer  to the surviving 
partner without any problems (such as the need to encash  it).
They did not know that the life insurance  component of the bond made it impossible to do 
this unless the bond was in joint names, something  which only became evident after his 
wifes recent  death. The advisor either knew or should have known this, and advised them 
accordingly.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
She felt the advisors written, and contemporaneous, record  offered a more reliable guide to 
what had happened  than Mr Ws recollections from 19 years ago. She highlighted,  in 
particular, the advisors  note saying:
Mrs W is an existing HSBC customer who would like to arrange  the option  of longer term 
savings for higher potential growth.  I have offered Mrs W the option of a joint meeting
with her husband and explained the potential benefits of a joint meeting, however Mr W 
deals with his own affairs and Mrs W only wants to discuss  savings in her own name. This 
option was declined.
She therefore felt HSBC  had, most  likely,  followed Mrs Ws instructions. Mr W did not agree, 
and elaborated  on the many alleged errors in the advisors report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and mainly for the same reasons.
I recognise there is a very substantial disagreement  about the nature of the meeting in 
question, who was there and what was discussed.  Where theres  a dispute about what  
Ref: DRN11284322happened, Ive based my assessment on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the evidence  and wider 
circumstances.
In this case I think it is very difficult even to reach  a decision  on the balance of probabilities.  
On the one hand, I can see no reason why the advisor would have  written  things which  were  
manifestly untrue.  If he did, as Mr W argues, then it is surprising that Mrs W didnt question  
at least some of what the advisor recorded when  she received his written report.
On the other hand, I find Mr Ws evidence  generally  convincing given the details  about  
where the money came from and the circumstances which led up to the meeting. On 
balance, I think the advisors report was probably  flawed and misleading  but I cannot be sure 
how much  of it was manifestly  false.
Crucially, its important  to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide 
whether a business clearly did something wrong  or made a mistake, not whether it might 
have done things differently (such as made a different recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice. I dont think there is enough evidence  to say that Mrs W, 
or Mr W, made  clear that they wanted any investment to be portable in the event of Mrs Ws 
death such that Mr W could keep it without encashment.
And I dont  think this was something that the advisor should  clearly  have brought  up 
unilaterally. Mrs W was only 62 years  of age and while she was looking for a medium term 
investment commitment,  Ive seen no evidence to suggest that she was thinking about  either  
inheritance tax relief  or of passing on this modest  investment sum to her husband   in the 
event of her death   without any question of forced encashment.
I have considered Mr Ws recollection of the informal chat after the formal advice had been 
given, which  included references to his wife inheriting his money in the event of his death.  
But even if his recollection is completely accurate  and I dont think  there is enough  
persuasive evidence  to safely conclude this  I dont think it demonstrates that the advisor 
ought necessarily  to have revisited the advice  and recommended they take the bond  out in 
joint names.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1128432