K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help him recover  money  hed 
sent to one of its customers. He believes he has been the victim  of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) fraud and is unhappy  that Barclays allowed the beneficiary  account to be 
used fraudulently. 
background
In February 2019  Mr S visited  a bathroom  store, which  Ill refer to as B and made  a 
purchase for £1,152.54. Mr S wanted  to make the payment by credit  card but was told there  
was a problem  with the card machine. He was asked to make  a payment by bank transfer  
which he did from his account with bank C. B held its bank  account  at Barclays.
Mr S was expecting delivery  of the goods  on 1 March 2019, but these didnt arrive and 
shortly afterwards he discovered B had gone  into administration. 
Mr S contacted C to try to recover his funds  - who advised him to contact Barclays directly.   
Mr S complained to Barclays,  he told them hed been the victim of a scam; that is, he 
believes the staff member intentionally  convinced  him to make  a faster  payment  rather than 
a card payment  as it was known that B was in financial difficulties. He believes B never  
intended to send him the goods and deliberately tricked him into making  the payment. He 
holds Barclays accountable and wants it to compensate him for his loss, as it allowed the 
account to be operated  fraudulently. He was also unhappy with the customer service he 
received when he first contacted Barclays to report the matter. 
Barclays investigated Mr Ss complaint but didnt agree to refund the loss. It considered the 
matter to be a buyer/seller  dispute and therefore a civil matter.  
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr S referred  the matter to this service. Shortly after 
Barclays issued its written  final response.  In summary it said;
 
-It provided assurances that as soon as it is made  aware of inappropriate activity  on 
one of its customers accounts, it fully investigates and takes  appropriate action.
  
-In Mr Ss case, following an investigation,  it said that it considers  the dispute  Mr S 
has raised, to be a buyer/seller dispute and a civil matter  not APP fraud. 
-It asked Mr S to contact B directly to reclaim funds. 
-It apologised for any upset or distress caused  to Mr S when he spoke to its 
Fraud Team and advised the feedback hed given, had been shared internally.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ss complaint. She first addressed  a matter about 
our jurisdiction to consider  the complaint, explaining why Mr Ss complaint  is one this service 
can consider. She said before 31 January 2019,  generally a sender could only complain to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service about  their own bank in alleged APP fraud  cases. But 
Mr Ss right to refer,  to our service, his complaint  about Barclays  comes about  following 
changes made by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) to our jurisdiction  rules.  These  
now allow, in limited  circumstances,  eligible complainants to refer complaints about the bank 
that received their funds. Both Mr S and Barclays accepted her findings. 
Ref: DRN13326792She then addressed the merits of Mr Ss complaint but did not think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Having considered everything, whilst  she sympathised with the situation  
Mr S finds  himself  in, she couldnt fairly hold Barclays responsible for his loss. She didnt 
think Barclays couldve reasonably done anything differently  to prevent Mr Ss loss. She also 
thought after receiving notification of the alleged fraud Barclays  took reasonable steps to 
investigate and respond.
Mr S strongly disagreed with the investigators  findings. He says Barclays  are responsible for 
his loss as they were  aware that B was in financial trouble yet allowed it to carry on trading. 
Hes also unhappy as Barclays  fraud team were not remotely interested  in the serious  nature  
of his situation and refused to help him  which meant further delays as he had to spend 
more time contacting  other departments within Barclays  for a response. He felt that the 
investigators outcome  wasnt impartial and the fact that hed been scammed  had been 
overlooked. He asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.  
did Barclays act fairly and reasonably  in this case?
Mr S has referred to our investigator being biased  and feels  she has vigorously supported  
Barclays position. To be clear, Im considering the merits of the complaint here  not the 
service provided by our investigator.  But Id like to assure Mr S that we are an independent  
and impartial service   we do not take sides and that Ive considered carefully  everything  
both parties have provided  before  reaching my decision. However, when making  a decision 
about a dispute it is often  inevitable that one party will be disappointed with the outcome. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that Barclays have acted complicity with B to scam him out of 
£1,152.54. He thinks Barclays should be held accountable for his loss as it knowingly 
allowed an account  to be operated fraudulently. He says the fact he has been scammed  has 
been completely  overlooked. I do understand Mr Ss strength of feeling in relation to these 
matters and he is, of course, entitled to hold these  opinions.  But I think  its important I start 
by clarifying what this services role is in terms of answering the complaint Mr S has brought 
to us. 
In many situations such as this one, the Financial  Ombudsman Service  will often not be best 
placed to deal with such matters. Only a court of law can decide criminal  liability   fraud is 
generally a criminal matter. It is not this services remit to forensically investigate allegations 
of fraud  nor do we have  the power  to carry out a criminal investigation  those are matters 
for the police  and better dealt with by a court. Its not something that I intend to determine 
here. My role is limited  to deciding whether Barclays has treated Mr S fairly and reasonably 
in reaching its decision  that this is a civil matter not APP fraud   its not for me to decide  if 
Barclays or B has acted  criminally. If Mr S remains  convinced a criminal offence has taken 
place, he is free to contact the police if he has not done so already. 
Ref: DRN13326793I appreciate Mr S has been through a difficult time and the amount lost is significant to him, 
particularly given his circumstances at the time.  So, I understand it mustve been extremely  
frustrating when he tried to speak with Barclays  about the issue  and it didnt respond as he 
wouldve liked them  to. However, for me to ask Barclays to refund Mr S Id have to find that 
its acts or omissions, led to his loss and in this case,  I dont think  it did.
I say this because  at the point at which Mr S reported the alleged scam to Barclays  - B had 
entered administration,  the control  of the business  was passed to an appointed administrator 
and all amounts that the firm owed were frozen. So, even  if Barclays  had concluded Mr S 
had been a victim of APP fraud, it wouldnt have been possible for it to have returned Mr Ss 
funds to C.
Nevertheless, after its investigations Barclays concluded Mr Ss claim is a civil dispute and 
have treated it as such. I dont think this was unfair  in the circumstances. I say this because;  
-Barclays acted reasonably in carrying out an investigation into Mr Ss claim that hed 
been the victim of APP fraud. 
-I can see from the evidence provided  that Bs account had been  in operation for a 
number of years and Barclays have said they had no concerns about how it was 
being operated.  I can also see from the evidence there was nothing in the account 
activity to suggest to Barclays that B was potentially  acting fraudulently.
-I cant see any prior notifications of alleged fraud recorded before Mr S raised  his 
claim.   
-It was not uncommon for B to receive payments by bank transfer  so I cant  fairly 
say Mr Ss payment  itself wouldve triggered Barclays  systems  as being unusual  or 
suspicious and that it missed an opportunity to prevent his loss. 
-I note Mr S thinks Barclays  shouldve known B was in financial difficulty  and its failure 
to act has led to his loss. But I have to be mindful of the limits of what  can reasonably 
be expected of Barclays in these circumstances.  Firstly it isnt uncommon for 
businesses to operate in debt; secondly Barclays arent  responsible for the financial  
performance of businesses who hold an account with them   such as B; thirdly 
Barclays provide B with banking services and even if it had knowledge  B was in 
financial trouble  its responsibility does not extend  to intervening  in business matters 
nor for these reasons would it ordinarily stop providing B with banking services; 
fourthly I also dont think the knowledge alone  that a business is struggling financially 
shouldve led Barclays to conclude  B was acting  fraudulently. 
Im sorry  Mr S had difficulty in receiving the goods  he purchased  from B as it entered  into 
administration. But Im afraid I dont agree that this can now fairly be considered the 
responsibility of Barclays  for the reasons above.   
Ref: DRN13326794I know Mr S has said a member of staff knowingly  scammed  him into making a payment 
online rather  than by credit card. Im afraid I cant resolve Mr Ss dispute with B as its not a 
party to this complaint.  I cant comment on whether or not the card machine was genuinely 
not working or the reason why a member of Bs staff asked Mr S to make  a payment by on-
line transfer. I know Mr S feels Barclay shouldve known and prevented  B from acting  in this 
way but having carefully  considered this I cant reasonably expect Barclays to have known 
either nor do I think it is Barclays role to prescribe to B how it accepts payment from its 
customers. If Mr S believes this was done  with intent, maliciously and considers  himself to 
be the victim  of fraud  as explained  above this is a criminal matter and something Mr S 
could report to the police, should  he wish to do so. 
I think it would be helpful for me to also explain to Mr S that even under circumstances 
where there  isnt a dispute about  whether  a scam  has or hasnt occurred, confirmation of a 
scam doesnt automatically  mean  the victim is entitled to a full refund, as I couldn't hold a 
bank responsible for any criminal activity  carried  out by a third party  such as he alleges 
about B in these  circumstances.  Id again be limited in considering only whether there  was 
anything unusual or suspicious that shouldve  led Barclays to have acted sooner to prevent 
the loss  which for completeness I dont  believe to be the case  here.   
I know Mr S was unhappy with the service Barclays provided when he first tried to report the 
matter. He felt the fraud team were unsympathetic and unwilling to help. I can understand it 
wouldve been disappointing for Mr S to have to call back the following day to complain  but 
Im not persuaded that this had such an impact on Mr S to warrant  a payment of 
compensation. I can see Barclays apologised for any upset or distress  caused to Mr S and 
advised the feedback  hed given, had been  shared internally. Im satisfied  that this is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve  this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
I recognise Mr Ss frustration at the situation  he has found himself in, but Im satisfied that 
Barclays have acted  fairly in reaching the decision that this is a civil matter  and not APP 
fraud. So, it follows that I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr S, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear. I apologise for the length  of time he has been waiting for this decision and I thank him 
for his patience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1332679