K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the charges  that have been  made by PSA Finance UK Limited, 
trading as Peugeot Financial Services, for damage to a car that he returned when his hire 
purchase agreement  ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with Peugeot  Financial 
Services that he signed in August 2015.  He returned  the car when the hire purchase 
agreement and it was inspected by a third party on behalf of Peugeot  Financial Services  in 
September 2018. The inspection report identified damage to three of the allow wheels,  the 
front bumper and the front right wing  and it recommended a damage charge totalling £367.
Mr S complained to Peugeot Financial  Services  and it accepted  that the photos of the 
damage to the bumper  and wing didnt adequately show the full extent of that damage   so it 
agreed to waive  those charges. But Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that there  
was enough evidence to show chargeable damage  to the three  alloy wheels  so he said 
that Peugeot Financial  Services  was entitled  to request payment for damage to the three 
wheels totalling  £195. And he said that Peugeot Financial Services  had provided instructions 
to Mr S in a letter in October 2018 on how he could  log-on to the third partys website to view 
the report and photos of the damage.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that he 
agrees with the charge  for the damage  to the left rear alloy wheel because of the scuff  but 
doesnt agree with the charges for the left front and right rear wheels. He says that the third 
party identified that damage as corrosion/rust but he believes that alloy wheels dont rust or 
corrode.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has accepted the charge for damage to the left rear alloy wheel  so I wont be 
considering the charge for that damage  any further.
The inspection report includes photos of the damage to the left front and right rear alloy 
wheels. I consider it to be clear from those photos  that there is damage to those wheels. And 
I consider that the damage isnt fair wear  and tear in accordance with the British  Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association guidelines  on fair wear and tear. 
The report  refers to the damage as corrosion/rust but Mr S says that alloy wheels dont 
corrode or rust. Im not persuaded that alloy wheels cant corrode or rust  but Im satisfied 
that theres damage  to those wheels and I consider  that the damage isnt fair wear and tear. 
Peugeot Financial Services has explained  to Mr S how he can view the report  and the 
photos  and Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that it has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr S. I consider that Peugeot Financial Services  is entitled  to 
Ref: DRN14852892charge Mr S for the damage to the three  alloy wheels. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to waive the £195  that it has charged 
him for that damage.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1485289