K822xcomplaint
Miss O has complained about the advice she was given  by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer her pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background 
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In brief,  
Miss O had said she was cold called by St Pauls  Marketing Limited  in 2016 and offered a 
pension review. She recalled receiving  several telephone calls about her pension, and she 
was persuaded  to transfer her existing  personal pension to a SIPP. She remembers being 
told that she couldnt  lose money, and would  make returns  of 4%. She said she was sent 
lots of paperwork to sign which  she did, and it was returned by courier.  
The SIPP was opened in June 2016 and approximately £25,300 was transferred to it. Of 
this, £24,537 was paid into it a stockbroking  account that had been  opened.  The majority of 
the money was invested in Just Loans debentures.
Miss O, through her representative,  subsequently  complained to Alexander  David  Securities 
Limited in January 2019. I understand Alexander David  didnt acknowledge or respond  to the 
complaint. The representative subsequently  referred  it to us. Our investigator asked 
Alexander David for its files and to provide  any other evidence it wanted  us to take into 
account. However, no files or evidence or arguments were received.
Miss O had said she wasnt an experienced  investor, and she didnt understand what  she 
was investing  in, but was reassured she would make better returns. Miss O had said she 
had no other  savings, was living in her partners property, and had a low attitude to risk. She 
said she wasnt advised about the risks involved, and she couldnt  afford  to lose the money 
in her pension. 
Miss O had explained to the investigator that she didnt understand the product and found it 
all to be gobbledegook. She said she listened  to the advice given to her and believed  that 
she would  get better  and guaranteed returns from switching her pension.  
The investigator said he thought St Pauls  Marketing  had persuaded Miss O to invest during 
the calls it had made. And the merits and suitability  of the proposed  investment had been  
discussed with her, and this alone  persuaded her to switch her pension.  Miss O had said she 
was low risk and had little experience of investing.  The investigator  thought  that investing all 
of Miss Os pension in the Just Loans  debentures lacked diversification. He said they were 
illiquid and high risk, and were clearly unsuitable  for Miss Os circumstances.
The investigator said that St Pauls  Marketing had arranged the investment. He said COBS 
10 applied  (Conduct of Business Rules). These said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges  or deals  in relation to a non-readily  realisable
security, derivative,  or a warrant  with or for a retail  client  and the firm is aware, or ought to 
have been aware,  that the application or order is in response to direct offer financial 
promotion.
He said COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Miss Os knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered 
Ref: DRN18304372or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is 
appropriate.
The investigator said Miss O had no significant investment knowledge and no experience of 
making investments  of this nature. He concluded that the investment wasnt appropriate for 
her. 
The investigator also noted one of the Regulators strategic  objectives  was to protect 
consumers, and its rules reflected this objective. He said the Principles required St Pauls  
Marketing to, amongst  other things, pay due regard  to its customers  interests and treat them 
fairly. He said St Pauls Marketings interactions with Miss O had directly resulted  in her, as 
an inexperienced investor  with little capacity for loss, investing a large proportion of her 
pension in illiquid, high risk bonds.  He said in his view, St Pauls  Marketing had failed to act 
in accordance with the Principles or in Miss Os best interests.
The investigator sent his view of the complaint to Alexander David.  But it didnt respond.  He 
wrote to both parties in June 2020 to say the complaint  would be passed to an ombudsman.. 
No further evidence or arguments were presented. The investigator  wrote to both parties on 
26 February and 1 April 2021 saying that having reviewed the case he thought redress  
should be calculated  slightly  differently  to what hed proposed in his assessment. He set out 
how he thought  it should be calculated. No further evidence or arguments were provided by 
Alexander David. Miss Os representative  said it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Miss Os original complaint or to the investigators  
requests for information. So theres only very limited evidence available  to establish what  
happened at the time of the transfer  and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available, including Miss Os recollections of 
events. The investigator  set out his thoughts  on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what  he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset  and following its input Miss O transferred her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Miss Os 
background and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension in order  to invest  in this 
type of investment without prompting.  I think it was unlikely to have happened  without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
The investigator said he thought St Pauls  Marketing  had persuaded Miss O to invest during 
the calls it had made. And the merits and suitability  of the proposed  investment were  
discussed with her and this alone  persuaded her to switch  her pension. Alexander  David  
hasnt disputed this. 
In all the circumstances, and on the balance  of the limited evidence  thats  available,  I think 
its more likely than not that St Pauls  Marketing  advised Miss O to transfer and invest in the 
Ref: DRN18304373debentures. And given the significant  risks of the transaction as described  by the 
investigator; that the investment strategy  lacked diversification, was subject to illiquidity and 
presented significant  risks, I dont think it was suitable for Miss O given her circumstances, 
particularly given she has said that she was a low risk investor and with little investment 
experience. 
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Miss O, I think  the evidence shows 
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily  realisable 
security.  COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Miss Os knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered 
or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her.
Miss O said she had little investment experience  and Alexander David hasnt disputed  this. 
Ive seen no evidence  of Miss O having  a history of making this type of investment. The 
debentures presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent 
appropriate for Miss O given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear 
to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Miss O. And like the investigator, I dont think 
St Pauls Marketing acted  in Miss Os best interests.  
Im satisfied that if St Pauls  Marketing  hadnt  advised Miss O to transfer and invest  in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent  suitable  or appropriate for her she wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Miss O to transfer  and 
invest in a product  that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Miss O has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Miss O on 
the following  basis. 
fair compensation 
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss O as close as possible 
to the position she would  probably now be in but for St Pauls  Marketings failures. I think 
Miss O would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  she would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what I have  set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Miss Os circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Alexander David do? 
To compensate Miss O fairly  Alexander  David Ltd should compare the performance  of     
Miss Os investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value,  no compensation is payable. 
Ref: DRN18304374Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Miss Os pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt  pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Miss Os pension 
plan it should  pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Miss Os actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age. 
I think Miss O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss O would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date.  Then 
8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Miss Os 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander  David  should: 
Pay Miss O £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter  has 
caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Miss O in a clear,  simple format. 
Ref: DRN18304375Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss O how much  it has taken off. It should  also give Miss 
O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Actual value 
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value 
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider would have been worth at the 
end date had it grown  in line with the benchmark.  
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Miss Os circumstances were consistent  with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in her complaint Miss O has said she was a low risk taker.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Miss O would  have transferred but for St Pauls 
Marketings failures. But her existing pension was invested in funds presenting  a greater 
degree of risk than she has said she was prepared to accept. So I think its likely  she would 
have switched to funds better aligned to her risk profile if suitable  advice had been  given. I 
dont know exactly how she would have invested.  But I think  the index I have outlined above 
is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Miss O was 
willing and able to take. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss Os risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared 
to take a limited  level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Miss O into that position.  
It doesnt mean that Miss O would have invested  50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather  I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects  the sort 
of return Miss O could have obtained from investments suited to her objectives and risk 
attitude. 
Ref: DRN18304376The investigator recommended  that fair compensation  be calculated as at 25 January  2019; 
the date that Miss O decided to reinvest  into the Just Loans  Debentures. I think  this is fair 
given Miss O had made her decision to reinvest  her money having already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think 
Alexander David is responsible for any losses  arising  from the re-investment. 
And although Miss O may have suffered a degree of distress  when the complaint was made 
and the return  provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a 
limited period given  she agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in 
January 2019.  So I think  £100  is fair in the particular circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1830437