K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about issues shes experienced with a car purchased with finance from 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc.
background
In September  2017 Miss S was supplied with a used car and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Miss S experienced the following issues with the car:
Bluetooth cutting out
Seatbelt warning  light illuminating intermittently
Parking sensors failing intermittently
Fuel consumption higher than expected
Juddering when pulling away
Miss S reported these  issues  to Santander in May 2018. Santander  asked the dealership to 
investigate but it wasnt able to replicate the issues  so no repairs  were carried out.
Santander agreed to arrange an extended road test to see whether the issues could be 
replicated. The road test was undertaken by an independent engineer  but none of the issues 
could be replicated.
Miss S obtained a report from Nissan which said that a judder had been  reported but not 
replicated. The report identified a fault code  relating  to a boost  sensor and said this required 
replacement.
Miss S asked Santander if she could reject the car. Santander declined  the request. It said 
that neither the independent report nor the Nissan report showed that there were any faults 
present.
Miss S wasnt happy with the response so she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence  that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss S didnt agree. She said her evidence in relation  to the cars  engine replacement  hadnt 
been taken into account. She said she was continuing to experience intermittent issues and 
she wanted to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  thigs)  the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
Ref: DRN16746212uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Miss S and Santander  disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Miss S was supplied with the car in September 2017. At the point of supply the car was 
approximately 2  years old and had covered approximately 27,500 miles.
Miss S first reported a noise from underneath  the car in February 2018. The car had covered 
approximately 34,000 miles at this time. The garage  diagnosed a noisy  timing chain and the 
engine was replaced under warranty. Miss s hasnt complained about any noise underneath 
the car since  these  repairs, so Im satisfied that the repairs were successful.
In April 2018 Miss S reported issues with the Bluetooth cutting out, the parking sensors  not 
working properly  and excessive fuel consumption. The garage was unable to replicate  the 
fault but replaced the radio and battery  free of charge as a gesture  of goodwill.  The  parking  
sensors were tested and found to be working  correctly and the emissions  were  tested but no 
excessive fuel consumption was diagnosed.
In August  2018  Miss S reported juddering when the car pulled away.  The garage  inspected 
the car but was unable to replicate the fault.
An engineers report can help to determine  whether  or not a fault was present at the point of 
supply. In this case, an inspection  and road test was carried  out by an independent  
engineer. The report concluded that there  was no judder, no fault with the Bluetooth, no fault 
with the parking sensors and no fault with the seatbelt warning light. The report also said that 
the cars  fuel consumption was normal for the age and mileage of the car.
Ive also taken into account a report from Nissan which  was obtained by Miss S. This deals 
with the juddering issue but says the issue couldnt be replicated.  
Neither of the reports found any faults with the car. In light of the fact that none of the issues  
complained about have  been replicated  during two separate inspections,  Im unable  to safely  
conclude that the car has faults  which were  present  at the point of supply.  Because of this I 
cant say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I appreciate that Miss S is concerned about the various issues  she has raised. Even if these  
issues had been  replicated during the inspection, its unlikely that (given  the age and 
mileage of the car) these  would  be pint of supply faults. Its more likely that the issues  are as 
a result of wear and tear.
Ive taken Miss Ss comments about the road test into account.  The road test was originally  
scheduled to take place  over 500 miles but Miss S wasnt happy about  this and asked for it 
to be limited to 250 miles. She subsequently  changed her mind and agreed to 500 miles but 
this wasnt communicated  to the engineer. I dont think  it makes  a material  difference  
whether the distance was 250 or 500 miles because both distances are significant  distances 
over which to test a car. If the car had faults  I think these would have presented  themselves 
over 250 miles.
Ref: DRN16746213Im sorry to hear that Miss S has experienced issues with the car. But on the evidence I cant 
be satisfied that there  is a point of sale fault.  So I cant say the car isnt of satisfactory  
quality. Because  of this I wont be asking Santander to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1674621