K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave her 
loans she couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Ms S 3 loans between July 2012 and April 2014.
A summary  of Ms Ss lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 11/07/2013 30/09/2013 1 £150.00 £202.50
2 22/10/2013 20/03/2014 1 £400.00 £520.00
3 17/04/2014 21/09/2014 1 £200.00 £260.00
 
Ms S says that proportionate checks  werent  carried out before the loans  were  provided. 
She says if these had taken place Mr Lender  would have realised she was reliant on short 
term loans and that the loans werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loan 1 shouldnt have been 
provided. However, the repayment amount for loan 2 was a significant proportion  of Ms Ss 
income and it was likely that Ms S wouldnt be able to meet  the repayment for this loan or 
any subsequent  loans. 
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view but it did offer to refund all interest and 
charges incurred on loan 3. Ms S didnt accept that offer and so the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN15751842But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations, define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loan one should not have 
been provided. I have  looked at the information gathered, including  income and expenditure 
information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender should  not 
have provided  this loan to Ms S. It was early in the lending relationship and there was no 
reason to doubt what Ms S was saying about  her finances.
Looking at Ms Ss repayment history of the first loan I think  that this should have alerted Mr 
Lender to the possibility  that Ms S was having  problems  managing her money. Ms S said 
that she was earning £1120  and had outgoings of £190. This left her with £980 disposable 
income. Ms S rolled over the first loan 5 times before repaying it. Although the loan looked  
easily affordable  on the figures Ms S gave, her repayment history suggested that this was 
not the case. I think that Mr Lender  should  not have  continued to lend to Ms S without  a 
more thorough check of her circumstances. 
Loan 2 for £400 was taken out just over 3 weeks after loan 1 was repaid. The repayment  
amount of £520  was a significant  proportion of Ms Ss declared  income.  Together  with her 
repayment history of the first loan I consider that Mr Lender should have done more  checks 
to verify what Ms S was saying about  her finances. If Mr Lender had carried out more  robust  
checking of Ms Ss circumstances it would have seen that Ms S wasnt responsibly  
managing her money and further  lending  was unsustainable. Ms S was unable to repay  this 
loan in full and on time and a repayment plan was arranged. This suggests that the loan 
wasnt affordable or sustainable.
Ref: DRN15751843Despite her difficulties  in repaying  loan 2 Mr Lender went  on to provide a further  loan a few 
weeks after Ms S finished her repayment arrangement for loan 2. In these circumstances 
where there  has been financial difficulty  in relaying a previous loan I think Mr Lender  should 
not have continued to lend to Ms S without being satisfied that any difficulties had passed. 
Mr Lender has already agreed  to refund all interest and charges on this loan so I dont think  I 
need to say any more about it.
 
I do not agree with Mr Lenders analysis that because  Ms S used  the rollovers  as a flexible 
option she was not in financial  difficulty. Ms Ss borrowing and repayment pattern was at 
odds with the information she was giving to Mr Lender and as a responsible lender I 
consider that Mr Lender should have done more before granting loans 2 and 3 and to verify 
what Ms S was saying.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender)
should:
A.Add together the total of the repayments  made by Ms S towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2 and 3, not including anything  it has already refunded.
B.Calculate  8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  by Ms S which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms S originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.Pay the total of A and B to Ms S.
D.Remove any adverse  information about loans 2 and 3 from Ms Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms S a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1575184