K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains, with the help of a representative, about the lack of investment reviews he 
received from Intrinsic Wealth Limited  after it recommended  he set up a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  in 2009.
background
In 2009 Mr G wanted to pay a personal tax bill he owed in a tax efficient manner. He asked 
Intrinsic for advice on how to do this. It recommended that he make  an employer contribution 
of around £200,000, via his company, to a SIPP and withdraw  the tax free cash  in stages to 
repay the bill over a period of around 12 months. The contribution  was invested into a cash  
fund.
In 2012 Mr G met Intrinsic  for a financial review.  He made a list of points he wanted to 
discuss at the meeting  and one of them related to the options he had regarding  his SIPP.
He said:
I have attached  a spreadsheet,  where  I have  tried to summarise most of my 
finances.
Please review these  as I would like to discuss the following  with you.

2) Do I have  any options with my [name of provider] SIPP. Is there any more I can do 
with this or is it just a matter of waiting till I need  to convert this into an annuity.
In 2014 Mr G again requested advice on his SIPP, referring to his previous request from
2012. His email said:
It is primarily this SIPP that I need  advice on with options on how to best invest the 
cash. I had this on my list of queries  for the last review with [advisers  name] back  in
March 2012, but never did get any feedback. I am also interested  in whether or not to 
stick with or change the current funds in the personal pensions.
In 2016 Intrinsic made contact with Mr G and offered to review his SIPP.  Mr G then 
requested a pension statement from his provider  and made  a complaint to Intrinsic about  the 
lack of investment  reviews in respect of the SIPP.
Intrinsic didnt uphold  the complaint as it said the advice had been suitable and it had 
undertaken a number  or reviews after 2009  and agreed to leave the pension fund in cash.
In its submissions to this service Intrinsic  said the complaint was out of time because Mr G 
complained more than six years  after the event complained about and more  than three years 
after he knew  or ought reasonably to have  known  that he had cause for complaint. Mr G 
had always known that the funds  held in his SIPP were invested in a cash  fund. So, as the 
advice was given  more than six years ago, and Mr G ought reasonably to have been  aware  
that he had cause to complaint given that he was aware the plan remained in cash  after the 
advice, the complaint had been brought out of time.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and said it was one we could consider 
because the complaint was actually about the lack of investment reviews  and when  Mr G 
Ref: DRN19343382raised this question in 2012 he effectively reset  the complaint  clock. This meant that the 
event as such didnt  happen more than six years ago. The adjudicator also completed an 
assessment of the merits of the case. He said it should be upheld.
Intrinsic looked into carrying out the redress calculation but disagreed  about  the dates that 
were used. It said that if the start date was to be 2010 then the question  of whether the 
complaint should  be considered needed  to be looked at again.
The adjudicator did review the dates  and agreed the start date should be when Mr G 
complained in 2012. However, Intrinsic then decided to request the complaint be passed  to 
an ombudsman for a decision about the time bar because it believed  the complaint to have 
been brought out of time.
The adjudicator responded by explaining that as Intrinsic had previously  agreed  to us 
considering the complaint it was unable  to revisit  the time bar issue.  He also reiterated  his 
view that the complaint  should be upheld using the dates that he had previously  
recommended. Intrinsic disagreed.
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
I sent Mr G and Intrinsic my provisional  decision on 17 May 2019; I explained why I thought 
that the complaint fell within our jurisdiction  in part and should  be upheld.  Neither  party 
responded with anything  to add, so I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out in 
that decision. I have reiterated these below. 
my findings
Ive first looked at all of the information  provided  by both parties in order  to decide whether 
this complaint is one we can consider.  And, having  done so, Ive concluded the complaint is 
one we can consider  in part. So, Ive also considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. My 
consideration of each  point is set out below.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
Jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Services handling of complaints  is governed by the Dispute
Resolution (DISP) rules  in the FCA handbook. DISP 2.8.2 states [my emphasis]:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless

Ref: DRN19343383(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint 
where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have expired (but this does not 
apply to a relevant complaint within the meaning of section 404B (3) of the Act
512).
DISP 2.8.2A  states:
If a respondent consents to the Ombudsman considering a complaint in accordance 
with DISP 2.8.2 R (5), the respondent  may not withdraw consent.
The adjudicator concluded that Intrinsics email of 15 June 2017, in which  it stated we are 
not looking to make further submissions with regards to the time bar, gave this service  
consent to consider the complaint. And, that it was then unable  to later withdraw that 
consent in accordance with the DISP  rules.
I think it is debatable  whether  by way of the above email Intrinsic  consented  to us 
considering the complaint or simply confirmed that it did not intend  to make any further 
submissions on the point. Because of this, I have considered whether or not the complaint 
was brought too late.
Mr G emailed Intrinsic  in 2012 asking, amongst other things, if he had any options with 
regards to his SIPP (ahead of a review)  and then in 2014 saying he needed advice on how 
best to invest the cash in his SIPP. In the 2014  email Mr G also highlighted that this had 
been on his list of queries in 2012 but that he had not received feedback in respect of this.
I dont think that either of these emails met the criteria  for complaint under the relevant 
rules, in turn, I dont  think  that Mr G stopped the clock for the purposes of the six and three 
year rule quoted above.
So, I think that the six years starts from the point of the event complained  about.
There has been some dispute as to what the event  is, in respect of the complaint raised. My 
understanding of Mr Gs complaint is that he is unhappy that, despite  paying for an ongoing  
service, Intrinsic failed to review the investment strategy employed within his SIPP.
Regular reviews seem to have been agreed  and were  to some degree (for example, Mr Gs 
investment provision was reviewed) taking place. I dont think  that there is one singular event  
that is the subject  of this complaint. I think that each review that did not take place  or did 
not cover  the investment strategy employed by the SIPP   was an event in and of itself for 
the purpose of the six year rule in respect of the complaint raised.
This means  that it is only the reviews  that did not take place (or did not cover the SIPP)  more  
than six years before Mr G complained to Intrinsic  that would potentially fall outside of our 
jurisdiction. But, I still need  to consider at what point Mr G ought  to have become aware that 
he had cause for complaint.
I think Mr G was aware from the outset (2009)  that his pension was invested in a cash fund 
and that the intention was for there to be ongoing  reviews  but this, in and of itself, does not 
mean that he knew he had cause for complaint at that point.
Ahead of the 2012 review  meeting  Mr G indicated that he wanted  to discuss his SIPP and 
what, if any, options he had. So, I think it is reasonable to conclude  that from the point of the 
Ref: DRN19343384review  during  which Mr G says the SIPP was not discussed  he ought reasonably to have 
known that he had cause for complaint. This was more than three years before this 
complaint was raised.
Because I have concluded that Mr G ought  to have been aware that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained, the reviews  that did not take place  
or took place  but did not cover the SIPP  more  than six years before he complained fall 
outside of our jurisdiction.
Mr G complained to Intrinsic in January 2017,  so I dont think that we can consider any 
reviews that took place  (or ought to have  done)  before  January 2011   but, I think we can 
look into any reviews that did take place (or ought to have done) after that date.
Merits of the complaint
Having concluded  that we can consider Mr Gs complaint, at least  in part, I have gone on to 
consider whether Intrinsic has fulfilled its duties in terms of the ongoing service it was due to 
provide Mr G.
The SIPP was recommended to Mr G in 2009  so that he could pay off a personal  tax liability  
in a tax efficient manner  by way of making an employer contribution of £200,000  and then 
using the tax free cash to pay his bill during the course of a year (£50,000). Under  the 
circumstances it was important for Mr G to avoid  the risk of the fund fluctuating  as much as 
possible. In light of that objective it is understandable why this investment strategy was 
employed initially  but, due to the temporary  nature of this need,  I think  it would have been 
reasonable for the approach to be reviewed  shortly after the tax bill was paid off.
That said,  because of my findings in respect of jurisdiction, I cannot look into what  Intrinsic 
ought to have done if it had reviewed how Mr Gs SIPP was invested at that time (2010).
I have thought about when the first review that falls within the six years ought to have taken 
place.
There does not seem to be any dispute that Intrinsic  was due to provide Mr G with an 
ongoing advisory service  and was charging  him for this. This is supported by the 
documentation issued  by Intrinsic. For example, the suitability report  he received in 2009  
said:
It is highly recommended that you review these and your other financial 
arrangements on a regular basis to ensure that my recommendation still meets  your 
objectives in the light of changing circumstances. I shall,  therefore,  contact you on a 
regular basis in order that we can evaluate whether any adjustments  are necessary.
And
The 2012  report  stated:
We discussed the importance of regularly reviewing  your financial arrangements  and 
we agreed that I would provide an ongoing  review service and I will be undertaking a 
review on at least an annual basis, or more  often at your request. We anticipate  that 
the cost of the annual reviews will be covered by the ongoing product commission  
and fees that we will receive from your existing and any new plans.
Ref: DRN19343385So, there is reference to regular  reviews  in both and the latter refers to reviews  taking place  
at least annually. Whilst reviews do not appear to have taken place every year, taking 
everything into account, I think it is reasonable to use annual  reviews as a proxy for 
establishing when  the first review  that falls within the six years  before the complaint  was 
raised  ought  to have taken place.
The original  advice was given on 7 May 2009. I have not seen  any indication that a review  
took place in 2010 but, in any case,  I could not consider any review that ought to have  taken 
place at that point.  Mr G complained in January 2017, so I can only consider reviews  that 
ought to have taken place  after January 2011. I have not seen any evidence  of a review  
taking place in 2011, in line with the above;  I think one ought to have taken  place.
The reviews  that have taken place have  been  at various different points  during  the 
respective years, so I have had to think about when the review in 2011  ought to have taken 
place. Under the circumstances, I think it is reasonable  to use the anniversary of the original 
advice, which would  have  been 7 May 2011.
A number  of reviews did take place. Intrinsic says that Mr Gs SIPP was discussed during 
these meetings and that he was happy  to keep it invested in the cash  fund to balance  his 
overall investment  portfolio, in light of higher risk investments he held outwith  the SIPP. On 
the one hand there  is reference to wider discussions within  the 2012 report.
The April 2012 report said:
Your priority at this time is investments and therefore I have  focussed  my advice  in 
this report on this one area. We have  had discussion [sic] regarding  other  areas in 
the past and are having continuing discussions regarding certain areas (eg [sic] 
pension planning) which I will write to [sic] about separately.
On the other hand, Mr Gs email in 2014  indicates that the issue  he raised in his 2012 email 
had not been discussed or resolved and I have  not seen any evidence  that any separate  
report covering pension planning was sent out in line with what was said in the April 2012 
report.
Taking everything into account,  I think there  is insufficient evidence  that the ongoing 
suitability of remaining  invested in the cash fund was reviewed  and, in any case, I think  
that if Intrinsic had reviewed this, it ought  to have  recommended that Mr G switch to 
something more appropriate  for long term investment in light of Mr Gs circumstances.
Based on Mr Gs emails of 2012 and 2014  this was an area that he was keen to review and 
he was open to the idea of investing these  monies  elsewhere, so I think  he would have 
listened to suitable advice.
I have thought about the type investment  and/or the degree of risk that would have been 
right for Mr Gs SIPP.
In respect of Mr Gs attitude  to risk the 2009  report said:
Your Attitude to Risk for Income  in Retirement
Ref: DRN19343386We have discussed  your attitude  to investment risk and you are prepared to accept a 
certain degree of volatility in return for the potential of good  growth.  You are aware 
that investing in a SIPP is a medium risk investment, but the questionnaire you 
completed suggested that you had a cautious, low risk profile  with regard to the 
actual funds invested within the SIPP, which will therefore reduce the risk on the 
product as a whole.  It was decided that initially  you wish to invest in a cash fund as 
the money is currently held in a cash account  by the company  and this will maintain 
the risk profile for the funds. You have expressed a wish to review this area over the 
next twelve months.
In the 2012 report Mr Gs attitude  to risk, in respect of the investment that was the subject of 
that review, was recorded as medium to high. Later, in 2015, Mr Gs attitude to risk was 
assessed to be dynamic,  looking at Instrinsics  definitions this seems  broadly similar to his 
attitude to risk as assessed in 2012.
I have no way of knowing,  with any certainty, whether Mr Gs attitude to risk changed 
significantly over the years or if  if his pension had been reviewed  he would still have  
preferred to maintain a more cautious  approach in respect of his pension in line with the 
2009 report.
As above, I dont think it was suitable  for Mr G to remain in a cash  fund but, taking 
everything into account, I dont think it would have  been unreasonable  for him to have 
employed a more cautious investment  strategy within his SIPP  than he was within his 
investment portfolio. I think  the benchmark  I have used under fair compensation is a 
reasonable proxy for what a suitable  investment is likely to have yielded. Like the 
adjudicator, I think that the redress should  be capped shortly  after Mr G was offered a review 
of his SIPP.
In summary,  I believe that Intrinsic  should have carried  out reviews of how the SIPP was 
invested, it ought to have  recommended  that Mr G move from the cash fund for a reasonable 
chance of growth  in the long run and I think,  on balance, that Mr G would  have accepted a 
recommendation to switch  his pension from the cash fund into funds with some  risk.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Gs circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  Intrinsic  do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Intrinsic must:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN19343387Intrinsic should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Intrinsic  should pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Intrinsic  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Gs pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr G £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the lack of service  
provided by Intrinsic.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Intrinsic deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been  taken off. Intrinsic should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The monies 
held within  
the SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds7 May 2011 7 May 20168% simple per
year from
date of
decision to
date of
settlement  (if
compensation
is not paid
within 28 days
of the
business
being notified
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
Ref: DRN19343388This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Intrinsic should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Intrinsic totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Gs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr G into that position.  It does not mean that Mr G would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Intrinsic  Wealth Limited  should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Intrinsic Wealth  Limited should provide details of its calculation  to Mr G in a clear,  simple 
format.
Ref: DRN19343389Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1934338