K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC removed his overdraft, cancelled his debit card 
and reported information about  the account  to credit reference agencies, without adequate 
warning. 
Background
Around April 2018,  Mr R went over his agreed  overdraft  limit and the account was passed to 
collections in May 2018. On 2 July 2018, Barclays  sent Mr R a letter, which said he needed  
to make a payment  or call Barclays  it said he might incur further charges and information 
might be shared with credit reference agencies. On 6 July 2018,  Barclays  also called Mr R, 
but it seems that security wasnt completed. 
On 18 July 2018, there was a call between Barclays and Mr R  a 30 day hold was agreed,  
and the notes left suggest  that he was told to call back  in 30 days, or hed receive further  
calls and the situation would be reviewed. On the same day, Barclays  sent a letter that said 
the account would be on hold for 30 days to allow a payment  to reach  it. And that information 
would be sent to credit reference agencies. 
On 18 August 2018, Barclays  confirmed by letter that the hold had come to an end  it asked 
Mr R to call Barclays  to discuss the account.  On 21 August  2018,  Barclays wrote  again to 
Mr R  it said that if the account wasnt within  its agreed  limit within seven days,  it would 
cancel the agreed  overdraft limit, cancel the debit card and information  may be sent to credit  
reference agencies.  It said that if Mr R couldnt pay, to call Barclays. 
On 29 August 2018, Barclays  wrote to Mr R to confirm that as no action was taken, it had 
taken the steps  outlined  in its previous letter.  On 31 August 2018, Mr R made  a payment that 
wouldve brought him within  his overdraft limit, but by that point, the facility had been 
removed.  
Mr R raised a complaint  about what happened. In summary, he didnt think  hed been  given 
the correct information about  the account  being on hold, and the consequences of not 
contacting Barclays.  He also said he was given the wrong information in branch  about how 
to avoid collections, because at that point, the account was already in collections. Barclays 
didnt agree  it thought it had given  him adequate information about  what would happen. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr R brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think  
Barclays did anything wrong. Mr R asked  for an ombudsman to review the matter   he said 
that hed not received the letters  about his overdraft,  because  he was away and his 
housemates wouldve thrown them out. And that none of the content  in the letters  was 
explained in the call. He added that hed no agreement  with Barclays to take the steps it did. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R asked for the call from 18 July 2018  to be listened to, but I dont think  thats necessary. 
From his testimony and Barclays  notes  of the call, I agree with Mr R that he wasnt told in 
this call what would happen  after the account  had been placed  on hold. But I dont think that 
means Barclays couldnt take the action it did. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN12638212Barclays confirmed in writing that it would be on hold for 30 days. At this point, even  if it 
didnt say explicitly what further action would be taken, I think Mr R ought  to have realised 
that something was going happen  if he did nothing  after all, hed been over his agreed limit 
for some time. 
Barclays later sent Mr R a letter saying the hold had ended and to contact it  and a further  
letter which set out exactly  what would happen if he took no action in seven days. Mr R says 
he never received  these   he was on holiday and his housemates wouldve thrown them  
away. But I cant blame Barclays for that. Overall, I think  it still gave  Mr R reasonable 
opportunities over a period of four months  to sort this out. 
Mr R says he never agreed that Barclays could take these steps. But I dont think Barclays  
needed his permission  by exceeding  his limit, hed breached  his contractual  obligations 
with Barclays. So I think it was entitled  to take steps  to recover the money owed.  
Ive also considered that Mr R says he exceeded  his limit because a partial switch  went 
wrong and directs debits  werent moved to another account. I can see that some of the 
charges were from returned  direct debits, but others  were the fees Barclays charged for 
using an overdraft. Moreover, Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that Barclays  was at 
fault for anything that might have gone  wrong  indeed, neither side has been able to show 
that a partial switch  was taking place. 
Mr R also pointed out that he was told in branch how to avoid collections, when the account 
was already in collections. While  I realise its annoying to be given the wrong information, I 
dont think the whereabouts of the account  changes that action  needed to be taken, and 
Barclays gave fair opportunities for that to happen.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1263821