K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2008 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
discussed the mortgage and PPI policy in branch and were  sent documents  and quotes for 
the PPI. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs S only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. Mrs S also took out the life cover element but that has not 
been complained about. The PPI offered to repay £806.65 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £47.91 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs S was employed as a Relationship Manager. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay but would have  received  death in service. Mr and Mrs S havent 
indicated they had any other  means of repaying  their mortgage should Mrs S be unable to 
work.  Mrs S has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on Mrs Ss chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN16810992The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN16810993General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for Mrs S, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN16810994misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
The initial consideration of the PPI took place  in a meeting when the mortgage was 
discussed. A Demands and Needs Statement  looking  at how Mr and Mrs S would repay  their 
mortgage was gone through. A quote for the PPI was then sent to Mr and Mrs S before they 
agreed to take out the policy and it is noted  on the BoS records that during a discussion Mrs 
S said she wanted to talk to her husband  before  making a final decision about  the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs S knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mr and Mrs S agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs S. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ss financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs S had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means  I dont  think  it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable.
For example, it is unclear  if Mr and Mrs Ss long and short-term  protection  needs were  
considered fully and there is no specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps to fully 
establish whether  Mrs S would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy would not cover her for some claims and did 
not fully meet Mr and Mrs Ss needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN16810995While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   Mrs S has not indicated she would have  
received any sick pay if she was unable to work due to illness, her redundancy 
benefits are likely to be limited and Mr and Mrs S havent said they had any savings 
they could fall back on. The policy would  have helped  Mr and Mrs S manage the 
consequences if Mrs S was unable to work.
-Ive seen nothing  else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable  for Mr 
and Mrs S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs S. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for 
her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs S has told us about a 
problem that occurred and was treated in 1990,  which was some  18 years  before the 
sale of the PPI and there is no indication this reoccurred. Thus  it would be unlikely 
this would be caught by the specific terms and conditions on limitations and 
exclusions.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs S be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs S be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover, that is that the policy would  protect their payments  if 
Mrs S was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment.  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S would  have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was for. And the quote and information provided to them  gave 
the monthly and annual  costs of the policy and the monthly benefit so this should have been 
clear to them. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN16810996Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs S Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs S all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN16810997Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mrs 
S was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs S were  given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mrs S was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mrs S wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs S didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN16810998I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
S might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely Mrs S would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
BoS may not have told Mrs S that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for, but she 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs S be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for Mrs 
S, was sufficiently close to what its likely Mr and Mrs S thought they were getting and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mrs S was made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have taken  out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN16810999Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2008  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1681099