K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bradford & Bingely Plc (B&B] mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1988 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness, and unemployment 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £160 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. The benefit was split between 
Mr and Mrs S so that if Mr S was unable to work the policy would have paid £100  a month 
and if Mrs S was unable to work it would have paid £60 per month. At the time, it cost £8 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as an HGV driver. He has told us he was entitled to 
between six months, but less than 12 months  pay, from his employer. He has also told us he 
would have been entitled to redundancy pay. He has said he didnt have any other  means 
(such as savings or other insurance  policies)  of meeting their repayments if unable  to work. 
Mr S has said he didnt  have any health problems at the time of the sale.
Mrs S was employed as a shop manager.  She has told us she was entitled  to between six 
months, but less than 12 months pay, from her employer. She has also told us she was 
entitled to redundancy pay. She has said she didnt have any other means  (such  as savings 
or other insurance policies) of meeting  their repayments if unable to work. Mrs S has said 
she had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
They took out further advances in 1990 and 1992 and the PPI was increased  in line with 
these advances.
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
 
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN19118412The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1988 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN19118413The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after B&B sold Mr and Mrs S PPI. Prior to this there  were fewer  requirements on a business 
when selling  insurance such as this. But B&B doesnt appear to have considered Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint any differently  it seems to me they have considered  the sale of PPI against  
these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mr and Mrs S in a more  favourable  
position, I have  taken into account the later industry  codes of practice in considering what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN19118414misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. This had a separate section for PPI and I 
note Mr and Mrs S were given a choice  about whether or not to take PPI. They chose to take 
PPI and set out the level of cover each  of them required. I also note from the available  
documentation that they were given a further choice when taking out the further advances in 
1990 and 1992.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs S disagree. Looking  at what 
happened when  B&B sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
B&B sold PPI policies  on a non-advised sale at the time this policy was sold and based on 
the documentation available to me it doesnt  appear  that it deviated  from this sales process  
on this particular occasion, or indeed, in connection with the further advances.  
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs S were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs S 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN19118415So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs S. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had B&B done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of them being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs S thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
Ref: DRN19118416differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs S were given about  benefit was clear.  But the information about 
other aspects of the policy, such as the cost,  limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr and/or Mrs S 
had sought treatment in the 12 months  before the start date of this policy  or any 
recurring condition  which recurred  within 12 months of the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months for unemployment, rather  than 
the remaining  term of the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mrs S says she had a 
medical condition  some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think  better information 
about this exclusion  would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the surgery for 
this condition took place shortly after her birth. And there is no evidence to suggest that it 
caused her any ongoing  problems such that she would have thought she needed to take 
time off work at the point  she agreed  to take the policy out. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
Ref: DRN19118417would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs S needed to be totally unable  to do their normal  job. I 
dont think this is likely to be too different to what they would have expected to make a claim. 
It seems  unlikely  they would have thought  theyd been able to make a successful claim if 
they were still working.
At the time of the sale, the policy would have paid out indefinitely  if Mr and/or  Mrs S were  
been unable  to work due to disability. However, it would have paid out for 24 months for an 
unemployment claim. B&B may not have told Mr and Mrs S that any unemployment claim 
they made would  be limited to a 24-month period.  This may have differed from what they 
expected and might have  hoped for  but 24 months  was a longer period  than Mr and Mrs S 
would have received full sick pay for and their redundancy entitlement  is also likely to have 
been significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable due to unemployment. 
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time and ensure  their home  was not placed at risk and might  
potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Ss sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were made redundant, or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
S would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ss circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs S found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN19118418Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in [date] when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1911841