K821x#15Complaint
In his complaint  form, Mr H told us hes complaining about Falcon  International Financial 
Services Ltd (FIFS) because he was wrongly advised to make an unregulated,  land-based 
investment. This was funded  by switching his pension benefits  to a self-invested  personal 
pension (SIPP). He also said he was cold-called and feels he was robbed  of his pension.
Background
Following events that Mr H says started with an unsolicited telephone  call, which according 
to FIFS was from Falcon International Estates Limited (FIE), he switched benefits held in a 
personal pension  with Royal London  to a SIPP with Novia. A total amount of around £24,000 
was switched in February  2014. £15,000  of this was used to fund an investment in an 
unregulated scheme  involving land at Cane End, Reading. 
An independent financial adviser (IFA), Sovereign  Financial Services (Sovereign, a trading 
name of J Richfield Ltd), was also involved in arranging the SIPP and pension  switch. Mr H 
has also made a claim in respect of Sovereign with the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).  This appears to have primarily been about the advice  he received to switch  
his pension benefits to the SIPP. The FSCS  decision  letter dated 2 April 2019 awarded him 
compensation of around £11,000.  But it also said it had excluded the investment being 
complained about here from its compensation calculation because:
For your investment in Cane End the advising firm was in fact Falcon International 
Financial Services Ltd (FCA 469499).
FIFS didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Its legal representative pointed out that hed received  
compensation from the FSCS. It also said his complaint  is about  unsuitable  advice and that 
FIFS didnt advise Mr H on his investment or anything else. Instead,  it said any advice was 
given by Sovereign  and this conclusion is consistent  with the findings of one of our 
adjudicators in a previous case involving similar facts. It told us the following about the 
process by which  Mr Hs investment was made:
FIFS is a company in the Falcon  Group. The Falcon Group, amongst its other 
financial services activities, manages unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS) in relation  to strategic land investments.
FIE is a separate  company in The Falcon  Group that approached potential investors 
by telephone, a marketing method common in the industry,  to discuss  the benefits of 
investing in land generally and the possible investment structures  that could be used. 
FIE didnt discuss or promote specific investment opportunities. If a potential  investor  
was interested  in receiving more information  about investing in land, FIE referred 
them to IFAs, such as Sovereign. FIFS had no involvement in this process.
This process was necessary because neither FIE nor FIFS were authorised to 
provide investment advice to potential investors.  For the avoidance of doubt,  FIE 
didnt provide investment advice and didnt  communicate any financial promotions 
within Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
In relation to FIE's initial discussions with potential investors, Sovereign had provided  
it with a template  form called  a "Client Financial Information" form (or fact find), which  
FIE completed based on information  provided  by the investor.  All completed  fact 
Ref: DRN10820612finds were then passed by FIE to Sovereign in respect of any potential investors who 
confirmed they were willing to be referred to the IFA. This was the end of FIE's 
involvement.
On receipt of a completed fact find, Sovereign considered this with a potential  
investor and completed a suitability test in line with the rules  of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Once Sovereign had completed this suitability assessment, it 
provided the potential investor with independent financial advice on whether he/she 
should invest.
If Sovereign's independent  advice  determined an investment was suitable, it then 
referred the potential  investor to FIFS. FIFS would then provide him/her with 
documentation relating to its investments. This is the first involvement FIFS had with 
any potential investors.
Our investigator recently  contacted Mr H for his recollection of how his investment was 
arranged. He says he received an unsolicited  call from Mr G of Falcon, which according to 
the above description of the process would have been FIE. He says Mr G told him his 
pension was frozen  and that hed need to invest in order  to access  it. He says Mr G spoke 
about investing in property in Southampton  but then said the Cane End investment would be 
quicker. Mr H also says Mr G described the investment as no risk.
Mr H says the only interaction he had with Sovereign  was when it sent someone to his home  
with all the paperwork and to ask some basic questions about his eligibility to invest  in 
property. He says he understood Sovereign was an IFA so he trusted what  he was told and, 
while he didnt understand the process,  he signed the documents put in front of him. 
Our investigator concluded the complaint about  FIFS  is one we can consider. This was 
based on his assessment  that FIFS carried out regulated activities  in arranging Mr Hs 
investment. He didnt  go on to say whether he thought the complaint should be upheld.
FIFS didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for the case  to be reviewed. Its 
representative made the following key points:
FIFS has and continues to be authorised  by the FCA for the regulated activities of 
managing an alternative investment  fund ("AIF).  It was also involved in arranging Mr 
Hs investment and doesnt dispute  this.
The complaint,  as set out in Mr Hs complaint form, relates to investment advice 
received in relation to strategic  land investments and its his contention that this was 
unsuitable. This is the regulated activity  being complained about, not those  of 
arranging deals  in investments or making  arrangements with a view to transactions  in 
investments. Advice was (or should  have been) given by Sovereign and it would be 
unfair and unjust to require  FIFS  to pay compensation in these circumstances.
The issue that determines if this complaint falls within  our jurisdiction to consider is 
whether FIFS provided Mr H with investment advice as defined in article  53 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001  (the 
RAO).
As previously identified, the facts of this complaint  are similar  to those of another  in 
which our adjudicator concluded  advice  was given by Sovereign and didnt uphold 
Ref: DRN10820613the complaint  against FIFS for that reason. Our website says the law requires us to 
decide each complaint on the basis of what we believe is fair and reasonable... not 
on how cleverly or persuasively either side argues their case" . It would be "fair and 
reasonable" for me to follow the precedent  decision made on the previous case  in 
deciding this one.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I agreed with the investigators view that we 
can consider this complaint, the reasons why I felt it should be upheld,  and what FIFS should 
do to put things right. FIFS didnt accept my findings and its legal representative  made the 
following key points:
A significant part of my provisional  decision relates to whether or not FIFS itself was 
required to carry out the elective professional client assessment under COBS 3.5.3. 
This isnt relevant.  Ive taken it that FIFS is relying  on the category 7 exemption set 
out in 4.12.4 to justify its promotion  of the investment to Mr H, but thats not correct. 
FIFS is instead relying on the category  2 exemption, which says it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the investment was suitable for him before promoting it.
The reasonable steps FIFS  took to ensure the investment was suitable for Mr H 
included:
referring him to an experienced IFA for a suitability assessment;
obtaining written  information  from Sovereign in respect of the suitability 
assessment it conducted; and
considering the information provided to it in respect of Mr Hs suitability to 
ensure it was able to rely on the category 2 exemption before promoting the 
investment.
The initial contact by FIE, which occurred  before  referral to Sovereign,  didnt 
constitute a financial  promotion. FIE discussed the benefits of investing in land 
generally and the possible investment structures  that could be used to do this, but it 
didnt promote specific investment  schemes. This business  model  and regulatory 
analysis has previously  been  discussed and agreed with the FCA and the 
ombudsman service  on many occasions. So its inconsistent and irrelevant that I 
failed to identify  a suitability assessment prior to FIE making the initial call to Mr H.
I should reconsider my view that FIFS shouldnt have placed  reliance  on the 
information it received  from Sovereign because  its contrary  to the FCAs rules and 
guidance and inconsistent with previous decisions made  by other  ombudsmen.
It agrees that COBS  2.4.6 covering reliance on information provided by others is 
relevant as FIFS placed reliance  on the suitability assessment performed by 
Sovereign. But my provisional decision doesnt  include  any analysis of how COBS 
2.4.8 applies to the facts of the case. Its inconsistent  with the generally accepted 
application of the FCA rules  to revert to the regulatory Principles without first 
analysing the requirement in COBS  itself. DISP 3.6.4 requires me to take account of 
the regulators guidance and standards when considering  whats fair and reasonable.
With regard to the requirements in COBS 2.4.8, information relating to Mr Hs 
suitability was provided to FIFS in writing.  For example, the file contains a signed  
letter from Mr H to Novia dated  4 March 2014,  which says:
Ref: DRN10820614I understand and accept  the FR Financial  Services (Cane End)  Land Fund is 
a long term illiquid investment and that this may cause difficulties should I 
wish to move my SIPP from Novia to another provider. Furthermore, I also 
understand and accept  that due to its illiquid  nature I may not he able to take 
income in any form from this SIPP at any given time.
Also, this information  was provided by an unconnected authorised person, 
Sovereign. Finally, there was no reason for FIFS to doubt the accuracy of this 
information for the following  reasons:
FIFS carried out extensive due diligence on the systems and controls 
operated by Sovereign, including  in relation  to its suitability assessment, at 
the start of their commercial relationship that began  in 2013. 
FIFS had an ongoing relationship with Sovereign and carried  out due 
diligence on an ongoing basis.  This involved Sovereign attending weekly  
meetings at FIFSs office to discuss each  individual potential  investor  in detail, 
reviewing and discussing the information provided by each potential  investor,  
their risk profile  and the assessment it had undertaken. These discussions 
also took account of the meetings that took place between Sovereign  and 
potential investors, including that with Mr H. FIFS and Sovereign  also had 
regular telephone conversations, sometimes on a daily basis,  to discuss the 
suitability assessments that were being  undertaken by Sovereign. Sovereign 
would also have  ongoing discussions with the potential investor  and provided  
FIFS with regular  updates on these discussions.  
Sovereign had been authorised and regulated by the FCA and its 
predecessors since 2011. During that time,  the regulators hadnt taken any 
enforcement action against it for breaching regulatory requirements.
My provisional decision contradicts the guidance  and commentary  thats been 
published by the regulator. For example, when the Markets in Financial  Instruments 
Directive (MiFID) was implemented, the regulator commented on the rules which 
allow a firm to place  reliance on other  firms who may be in the chain for the 
provision of investment  services. It said their effect was to minimise unnecessary 
regulatory burdens by permitting  one firm to rely on anothers  efforts . In respect of 
the reliance provisions more generally, the regulator also said their effect was 
proportionate regulation  it avoids more than one firm having to comply  with the 
same requirement in respect  of the one client/transaction . Whereas,  in my 
provisional decision, Im in effect  suggesting FIFS needed to conduct  its own 
suitability assessment for Mr H despite the fact Sovereign  had already  done it.
My provisional decision contradicts decisions reached by our service on other 
complaints. It provided examples  of cases  that it believes illustrate this point.
Ive effectively said that in promoting the investment to Mr H, FIFS breached the 
regulators Principles. The FCAs rules state  theres  an enforcement  procedure  if 
there are allegations of a breach and this hasnt been followed. I dont have the 
jurisdiction or the information at my disposal  to make such  a determination. Its 
inappropriate for me to comment  on the rules and regulatory provisions, including the 
Principles, which are not the subject of this Complaint, havent been considered by 
the FCA, and are beyond  my remit to consider.
Ref: DRN10820615Following my provisional decisions on other complaints involving similar circumstances, 
FIFSs representative made  further submissions that it said related to all four cases  Im 
considering. It raised the following key points:
The sales process changed from 1 January 2014, when the rules in COBS 4.12 were 
amended and the category 2 exemption covering the promotion of UCIS  was 
removed. Prior  to this date, FIFS relied  on the category 2 exemption to promote its 
products. After this date,  it relied  on the category 7 exemption.  It provided  flowcharts  
outlining how each  of these processes worked.
FIFS was entitled to rely on a suitability assessment completed by the IFAs. On the 
issue of whether information about  the suitability assessment was completed in 
writing, I said the application  was presumably completed after the investment had 
been promoted and therefore  any suitability assessment may have taken place after 
promotion. But Ive provided no evidence for this.
Further, FIFS and the IFAs werent connected. While  the term isnt described in the 
Handbook Glossary, my interpretation is irrational and inconsistent with the definition  
of connected that applies in a different context  elsewhere in the Handbook.
Guidance from the regulator issued during the implementation of the Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID)  allowed a firm to place reliance on another  
that was in the chain for the provision of investment services. The stated aim of this 
was to minimise  unnecessary regulatory  burdens by permitting one firm to rely on 
anothers efforts. In respect  of the reliance provisions, more generally the FSA has 
also said their effect is proportionate regulation  it avoids more than one firm having 
to comply with the same  requirement in respect  of one client  transaction. I should  
have regard to this when interpreting the term unconnected in the context of placing 
reliance on another  firm.
The definition of connected that should  apply is that in COBS 4.12, which is linked 
to the UCIS marketing  exemptions.  Note 2 in COBS  4.12(4) says:
A company is 'connected' with another company if:
they are both in the same group; or
one company is entitled, either  alone or with another  company in the 
same group , to exercise or control  the exercise of a majority of the voting 
rights attributable to the share capital, which are exercisable in all 
circumstances at any general meeting of the other company or of its holding  
company.
FIFS could not be said to be connected  with the IFAs under  this definition.
Finally, FIFS  had no reasonable  grounds to doubt the accuracy of the suitability 
assessments completed by the IFAs. I may not agree  with the outcome  of a suitability 
assessment based on the consumers circumstances, but this isnt the issue  to be 
considered. The issue to be determined is whether FIFS was entitled  to rely on the 
information it was given by the IFAs.
Ive referred to supporting documents provided  by the consumers but FIFS didnt 
have, and wasnt required to have, this information. It relied on the information 
Ref: DRN10820616provided by the IFAs and had no reason to doubt  this because of the extensive due 
diligence measures it had in place and that have been described previously.
Ive also said that the information on which the IFAs suitability assessment was 
based should have given  it reasonable grounds  to doubt the accuracy of that 
assessment. But as stated by the regulator and outlined  above, the whole  purpose  of 
the reliance rules was to minimise unnecessary regulatory burdens and prevent 
duplication of effort. So FIFS  wasnt required to receive or review all of the 
information on which the IFAs suitability assessment was based.
Ive said the due diligence measures FIFS put in place suggest the relationship  
between it and the IFAs was close, indicating a connection in respect of the 
investment schemes  being promoted.  But actually the measures were  entirely  
reasonable to ensure FIFS complied with its regulatory obligations. Otherwise,  it 
seems any step taken to ensure the accuracy  of the information it received from the 
IFAs would  lead me to consider there was a connection and no reliance could be 
placed on their suitability assessments. Applying  my comments  would lead to a 
situation where COBS  2.4.6(2) would never  allow an authorised  firm to place reliance 
on another authorised firm to comply with any rule requiring it to obtain information.
In summary,  my analysis  in respect  of COBS 2.4.8 and its application to these 
complaints is inconsistent with the generally accepted  application of the FCA rules.
FIFS has operated  the sales process discussed  in these complaints for more than 10 
years. Neither FIFS nor any other  company within  the Falcon Group has ever been  
sanctioned by the regulator in respect of any regulatory rule breaches.  While Im 
entitled to consider  and comment on regulatory rules and principles, it questions 
whether I have the power to decide whether a rule breach has taken place or 
whether its necessary  for me to do so. In fulfilling my role outlined  in DISP 3.6.1, its 
sufficient only for me to form a view on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.  I dont need to conclude  a regulatory breach has occurred 
to find in a consumers favour. 
It also questions how I was able to reach  such  a conclusion where limited information 
has been provided and Ive also commented on various inconsistencies between the 
consumers statements during the complaints process and the documentation  that 
was provided/signed/reviewed by them at the time of their investment.
It provided copies of correspondence between  the regulator  at that time the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA)  - and the Falcon Group from 2012 following its 
review of the sales process  that applied to the complaints Im considering.  This didnt 
identify any rule breaches and no action was taken.  FIFSs process hasnt changed 
since this date.
In explaining  the process  to the regulator, it was expressly stated that:
it relied on the category 2 exemption  to market its products to potential 
investors; and
its relationship with the IFA, including the fact that the IFA completed the 
suitability assessment and FIFS then relied  on this.
Ref: DRN10820617The regulator confirmed  that it accepted this explanation in its letter of 2 May 2012.  It 
would be irrational for me to take a view thats not consistent with the regulators 
investigation and analysis.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
As with my provisional decision, I havent tried to address every single point raised here.  Ive 
instead concentrated on the key issues that I think are central to the outcome. I also note 
FIFSs representative has referred to previous decisions issued by our service, but I hope it 
will appreciate that I must consider and decide  each case based on its own individual facts 
and circumstances.
I note FIFSs  representative thinks I should issue a further provisional decision in light of its 
recent submissions,  but I dont think thats  necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. I 
addressed the key issues, including the application of the exemptions  in COBS 4.12, in 
detail in my provisional  decision  and I dont think the responses  raise any substantive new 
issues or lines of argument that justify delaying the settlement of this complaint further. Im 
satisfied FIFS has had adequate opportunity to make submissions and that its now 
appropriate for me to issue my final decision.
The sales process
I thank FIFSs representative for its recent  clarification of the sales process,  although even 
this explanation appears to include contradictions.  Most notably, it begins by saying the 
exemption FIFS relied on was different after the rules  were changed at the start of 2014,  yet 
it later says the same process has operated for over ten years.  
FIFSs representative previously said it relied  on a suitability assessment  completed by 
Sovereign to promote  its products  to Mr H, the category 2 exemption under COBS  4.12.  But, 
as it has more recently identified, the rules changed on 1 January 2014 and this exemption 
was no longer available after this date.  It says the sales process was changed as a result. 
My review  of the available evidence leads me to conclude that the promotion  of Mr Hs 
investment by FIE and FIFS  took place after the rule changes took effect  on 1 January 2014.  
The correspondence on file relating to Mr Hs pension switch  and investment is all dated 
from 2014 and I note his letter to Novia dated 4 March 2014 (referred to as a comfort letter, 
although its not clear  who was meant to take comfort from this) says:
I further confirm that I have elected to be classified  as a professional client.
This indicates the post 1 January 2014  process  described by FIFSs representative applied 
in this case and that FIFS  actually relied  on the category 7 exemption. There is an earlier  
version of the comfort  letter  - with exactly the same wording - dated 22 January 2014. I think 
its likely  this was obtained  very shortly  after the initial promotion took place and the 
reference to Mr H being classified as a professional  client  again  appears to confirm  it was 
the post 1 January 2014 sales  process  that was being followed.
Ref: DRN10820618So, from the information provided, Im satisfied the sales process  for arranging Mr Hs 
investment worked  as follows:
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE. According to FIFSs representative,  FIE 
gave no advice and discussed the benefits  of investing in land generally  and the 
structures that could  be used to facilitate this without promoting  a particular 
investment  Ill return to this point later. FIE also referred Mr H to an IFA, Sovereign, 
for advice and FIFSs representative has referred to FIE completing a fact find with 
consumers to assist  with that. FIE was a separate company to FIFS, but had been its 
AR since August  2012.
The second stage  involved Sovereign. Its role was to decide whether  Mr H should be 
classed as an elective  professional client and report its findings to FIFS. Sovereign 
also arranged the SIPP  and the switch  of his pension benefits.  Sovereign was a 
regulated business  in its own right and its not appropriate  for me to comment on its 
actions here, except where this is relevant to the outcome  of the complaint about 
FIFS.
The final stage was the promotion  of particular land investments  by FIFS. In making 
this promotion,  FIFS relied on the classification of Mr H as a professional client 
completed by Sovereign, which it believed meant the category 7 exemption in COBS  
4.12.4 applied.
Jurisdiction
Ive reviewed my findings on the issues concerning our jurisdiction to consider this complaint 
in light of the submissions  received since my provisional decision. To be clear  and as 
required, my conclusions on our jurisdiction  are based on a strict  interpretation of the rules  
rather than what I think is fair and reasonable.
In his complaint  form, Mr H said he was wrongly  advised on his investment. But he also 
referred to the fact that he was cold-called and says he was robbed of his pension. As he 
also referred to the initial telephone contact, which FIFS representative has confirmed was 
made by its AR, I think its clear his complaint goes beyond just the actions of Sovereign.  
I think its also relevant to consider that Mr H doesnt appear to be an expert  in financial and 
regulatory matters  and wouldnt necessarily understand  exactly how he came to be in the 
position he now finds himself and which of the various firms he dealt  with was ultimately 
responsible. In saying  he was robbed of his pension, I think  hes essentially calling into 
question the whole sales process  from initial call to his money  being  invested. The process 
of selling an investment  incorporates  a number of different activities, including  promoting it, 
advising on it, and arranging it.
jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of FIFS
Regulated activities are specified in the RAO. Along  with other  investors, Mr H invested in 
plots of land with a view to planning permission  being obtained in the future when  the land 
could be sold at a profit. It seems to be accepted the scheme  is a UCIS. Units in a collective 
investment scheme  (CIS), which includes UCIS,  are specified as investments (article  82).
Ive set out previously  that I think FIFS was involved in various regulated activities in 
connection with Mr Hs investment. These included establishing and operating  a CIS (article 
Ref: DRN1082061951), arranging deals in investments (article 25), and agreeing to arrange deals in 
investments (article 64). While promoting investments wasnt  a regulated activity in its own 
right, a complaint about promotional activity would fall within our jurisdiction if it was ancillary 
to one of the other regulated activities Ive identified.
FIFSs representative hasnt disputed my findings on these issues and my conclusions 
havent changed. Promoting its investments was a key part of the sales  process described 
by FIFSs  representative and there doesnt seem  to be any dispute that it carried  out this 
activity and that it was ancillary to the regulated  activities identified.
jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of FIE
In my view, the evidence  also indicates  FIE was involved in regulated activity, particularly 
that of arranging deals in investments. This activity is defined  as:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, 
sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a contractually based investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article,
is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements  with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying,  selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether  as principal or agent) is also a specified 
kind of activity.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think the fact FIE was involved in this activity is 
demonstrated by the following correspondence  provided in connection with this complaint:
A letter from FIE to Novia dated 12 March  2014, which says:
Please find enclosed TP1 for Plot(s) XXX at Cane End, Reading  for your 
reference stated  above. Also enclosed is a signed comfort letter.
Can I please kindly request you have the TP1 signed where indicated by the 
yellow signature tabs and return the originals back to us at the following 
address:
Falcon International Estates
30 Crown Place,
London,
EC2A 2AL
We look forward to hearing  from you.
A letter from FIE to Novia dated 1 May 2014,  which says:
Please find enclosed Title Deed for the following client:
Ref: DRN108206110Mr H  XXXXXX
This is for your safekeeping.
Should you have  any further queries please do not hesitate to contact me.
A letter from FIE to Mr H dated 6 May 2014, which says:
We are pleased to confirm that your purchase of plot(s) XXX, Cane End, 
Reading has successfully  completed registration  at the UK Land Registry. 
The title is now registered under  your SIPP Novia (Gross) Nominee Limited 
for which your wrapper number is XXXXXX.
Should you have  any queries  then please  do not hesitate to contact me.
A letter from FIE to Mr H dated 29 August 2014, which  says:
Please find enclosed a Share Certificate for the 1 share(s)  you now own in 
the management company as a consequence  of your purchase  mentioned  
above.
I can confirm that £1250.00  of the purchase proceeds per plot has been 
transferred to the Management Company's bank account.
Please do not hesitate to contact your broker should you have any queries.
I note FIFSs  representative has also referred to FIE providing, and possibly completing, a 
fact find with clients prior to them being referred to the IFA. I think that would also be part of 
the process of arranging  Mr Hs investments.
As I also said in my provisional  decision, I think FIE was involved in promoting investments  
to Mr H. The FCA defines a financial promotion  simply as: 
an invitation or inducement to engage  in investment activity  . . . that is communicated 
in the course of business
Further, section 8.23.2 of the Perimeter Guidance  Manual (PERG), the regulator says:
 
Anyone who is carrying on a regulated activity is likely to make financial 
promotions in the course  of or for the purposes of carrying on that activity. 
FIFSs representative maintains the actions of FIE didnt  amount to a financial promotion  and 
says it only discussed  the benefits of investing in land generally and the possible investment 
structures that could  be used  without  promoting specific investments.  This directly 
contradicts Mr Hs recollection that the person who called him spoke about a particular 
investment scheme  involving land at Cane End, which is what  he ended  up investing in. 
Without access to a recording or other  records of the conversation,  its difficult to be 
absolutely certain  about  what FIE discussed with Mr H. But in my view, his recollection that 
specific investments, including that at Cane End, were discussed is compelling.  I certainly  
dont think its likely  he deliberately misrepresented  this point as I dont believe he had a 
Ref: DRN108206111detailed understanding of the rules covering the promotion of UCIS and the potential 
significance of this issue when he made  his complaint.  
Further, based on the description  of the sales process provided by FIFSs representative, Im 
conscious that FIEs aim when contacting Mr H was to arrange for him to speak to 
Sovereign, which was the next stage  in a sales process ultimately  designed to result  in him 
investing in a scheme offered by FIFS and no other  scheme operators. Mr H says the call 
from FIE was unsolicited  and he doesnt  appear  to have been looking to switch his pension  
benefits to a new arrangement to fund unregulated investments in land. In the 
circumstances, I think  its unlikely hed have considered speaking to anyone  else about  such  
a proposition further if FIE hadnt given him some information about the proposed  
investment. Further, for FIE to achieve  its aim, I think any comments it did make would have 
been positive  and ultimately intended  to induce him to agree to invest. 
 
On balance, Im satisfied FIE was involved in the regulated activity of arranging  investments 
and the unregulated (but ancillary) activity  of promoting FIFS investments to Mr H. Further,  I 
think the evidence  shows it was carrying out these  activities before Mr H had been referred 
to Sovereign. As an ancillary activity to that of arranging his investment, Im satisfied a 
complaint about  promotion by FIE falls within our jurisdiction and is something we can 
consider.
jurisdiction - is FIFS responsible for the activities  of FIE?
The fact FIFS  effectively outsourced part of the promotional activity  doesnt mean it 
somehow isnt responsible for the regulated and ancillary activities  carried  out by FIE. FIE 
acted as an AR of FIFS at all times. My provisional decision analysed  the AR agreement  
between FIFS and its AR and I concluded that this authorised FIE to engage in promotional  
activity. As FIFS permitted FIE to carry out this activity on its behalf, it follows that its 
responsible if it wasnt  done  correctly. FIFSs  representative hasnt disputed  this point and 
my conclusions remain unchanged.
overall conclusions  on jurisdiction
For the reasons  Ive set out here, I remain satisfied that both FIE and FIFS were involved in 
regulated and ancillary promotional activities involving Mr Hs investment and that FIE was 
promoting the particular investment offered to him before he was referred  to Sovereign. As a 
result, Im satisfied we can consider a complaint about the actions of both FIE and FIFS.
Merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision from FIFSs representative, my conclusions and 
the key reasons for them  havent changed.
From comments in its most recent submissions, it seems FIFSs representative may have 
misunderstood my role. The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  under which 
the Financial Ombudsman Service was established,  says in section 228:
A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion  of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN108206112The same section of FSMA also says:
When the ombudsman  has determined a complaint he must give a written statement 
of his determination to the respondent and to the complainant.
The statement  must
(a)give the ombudsmans  reasons  for his determination;
To discharge  these  responsibilities effectively, a key consideration in assessing any case 
must be whether  the respondent firm has treated the consumer making the complaint fairly. I 
think that requires  me to consider whether the rules and regulatory Principles the firm is 
expected to adhere to have been  followed. FIFSs representative seems to accept this when  
it refers to DISP 3.6.4, which says:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
I have no power to fine or punish a firm for a breach of any of the above and maybe thats 
what FIFSs representative is thinking  of when it says considering such issues are outside 
my remit. But I have  a duty to consider  whether a breach of specific  rules  or high-level 
principles has occurred  and, if its material to the outcome, to identify this in setting out the 
reasons for my decision as Im required to do under  section 228 of FSMA.
correspondence with the FSA in 2012
With its most  recent  submissions, FIFSs  representative  has provided copies of 
correspondence between  FIE and the FSA in 2012. This shows  the FSA asked for details 
about FIEs introduction  of potential clients to an IFA and its apparently  being  argued that 
because no action was taken this represents  an endorsement of the overall sales process. 
But after reading  this correspondence carefully,  I dont  view it in the same way.
Unfortunately, we havent been provided  with a copy of the FSAs response to the 
explanation provided by FIE in June 2012  so I cant say with certainty that this was 
accepted. But even if it was demonstrated that the FSA was satisfied with the explanation it 
received about  the sales process,  this correspondence referred to the process  before  it was 
changed from 1 January  2014 and the evidence indicates the promotion and sale of Mr Hs 
investment began after this date. Further, it wouldnt demonstrate  that process was followed 
correctly when Mr H invested two years later and thats the issue  I must address here. So I 
dont accept that it would be irrational for me to conclude Mr Hs complaint should be upheld  
on the grounds Ive previously outlined simply because  of the correspondence between FIE 
and the FSA in 2012.
Ref: DRN108206113Incidentally, I note FIFSs representative has also said its business  model  has been 
discussed and agreed with our service. But its not provided any evidence  to demonstrate 
this and I find it unlikely  that any such agreement was obtained. The role of the ombudsman 
service is to consider  individual disputes  on their own merits and its never  been  our remit or 
practice to carry out reviews of a firms business model  or enter  into discussions about such  
issues.
the rules on promoting  UCIS
As Ive previously set out, there were rules covering the promotion of UCIS  at the time Mr H 
invested. The starting point in section  238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person  must not communicate  an invitation or inducement to 
participate in a collective investment scheme.
The CIS Exemptions Order sets out circumstances where this restriction  doesnt apply and 
FIFSs representative has previously referred  to article 13, which says:
The scheme promotion restriction does not apply to any communication which:
(a) does not relate to units of a particular unregulated scheme identified (directly or 
indirectly) in the communication; and
(b) does not identify (directly or indirectly) any person who operates a collective 
investment scheme  or sells units.
For this exemption to apply, it must be the case  that any communication (which  would 
include telephone  calls as well as written  correspondence) doesnt relate to a particular 
investment scheme  and doesnt identify a particular scheme operator. 
I think its clear  a particular scheme operator had been identified  from the outset as the sales 
process followed by FIE and FIFS meant all resultant investments would only be through 
FIFS and no other scheme operators. Further, theres no dispute FIFS identified  its own 
investments when promoting to Mr H and, for the reasons set out earlier in this decision,  Im 
satisfied FIE did the same. For these reasons, I dont think  FIFS was entitled  to believe 
either its actions or those  of FIE were covered by article 13 in the CIS Exemptions Order.
the exemptions in COBS
As I set out in my provisional  decision, there were other exceptions to the general prohibition 
covering the promotion of UCIS. At the time Mr H was contacted  by FIE and promotion 
began, section 4.12.1 of The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) said:
(1)A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement to participate in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme  without breaching the restriction  on 
promotion in section 238 of the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in 
the table in (4), as explained further in the Notes.
(2)Where the left-hand column in the table  in (4) refers to promotion  to a category 
of person, this means that the invitation or inducement:
Ref: DRN108206114(a)is made only to recipients who the firm has taken reasonable steps to 
establish are persons  in that category; or
(b)is directed at recipients in a way that may reasonably be regarded as 
designed to reduce,  so far as possible,  the risk of participation in 
the collective investment scheme  by persons who are not in that category.
The table referred to set out various  categories  of client  to whom it was acceptable to 
promote UCIS. 
which exemption is being relied on?
This issue has been the source of some  confusion, but following the latest submissions  from 
FIFSs representative, and for the reasons Ive set out earlier  in this decision, I think its clear 
the sale and promotion of Mr Hs investment took place after 1 January 2014 and this means  
FIFS and FIE must  have been relying on the category 7 exemption.
category 7 exemption
Under a category 7 exemption, COBS 4.12.4  permits the promotion of UCIS  to:
 
An eligible  counterparty  or a professional client.
For Mr H to have  been  appropriately considered and treated as an elective professional 
client, all three of the criteria set out in COBS 3.5.3 would have needed to be satisfied. This 
said:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality as 
an elective professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable, 
(2):
(1)the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature 
of the transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  
his own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the 
"qualitative test");
(2)in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country  business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including  
cash deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked  in the financial sector for at least  one year in 
a professional position, which requires  knowledge  of the transactions  or 
services envisaged;
Ref: DRN108206115(the "quantitative test"); and
(3)the following  procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally  or in respect  of a particular service  or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client  may lose; and
(c)  the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, 
that it is aware of the consequences of losing such protections.
FIE  was it entitled to rely on the category 7 exemption?
Under the sales process described by FIFSs  representative, the assessment of whether Mr 
H was a professional  client  which  was required before UCIS could be promoted to him - 
was completed at the second stage when  he spoke to Sovereign.  As Ive explained earlier in 
this decision, I believe  the evidence shows FIE promoted a particular investment to him 
before he was referred to Sovereign and, crucially,  before there  was any consideration of 
whether he was a professional client. Further, Im satisfied this promotional activity  was 
ancillary to the part FIE played in the regulated  activity of arranging Mr Hs investment.
I believe its clear from the description  of what took place by both parties that no attempt was 
made to ensure it was appropriate  to promote to Mr H before FIE began its promotional 
activity. That means  FIE wasnt entitled  to rely on the exemption in COBS and should have 
identified that it wasnt appropriate to promote  to Mr H. That it went on to do so represents  a 
breach of the regulators rules that were  designed  for the protection  of consumers. 
Further, if FIE had carried out an appropriate assessment of whether Mr H was an elective 
professional client  before promoting to him, I think the evidence  shows that he couldnt  
reasonably have been considered to have met the quantitative test outlined above. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  my understanding of his circumstances  at the time is 
that Mr H was in his mid-fifties, married  with no other financial dependants, and owned  his 
own home. Hes told us he worked  as a service engineer earning around  £28,000  per year.  
In terms of his investment  experience,  he says he had an individual savings account (ISA) 
worth around £500 and hadnt made investments  or traded in land previously. He also says 
he was paying  into the occupational pension scheme offered by his employer.
Because rules  designed for his protection werent  followed, I think I can only reasonably 
conclude FIE didnt  treat Mr H fairly. As its principal,  and in line with the contents of the AR 
agreement, Im satisfied  FIFS  is responsible for these failings. Regardless of the actions of 
FIFS later in the sales process,  I think the acts of FIE alone are sufficient grounds to uphold 
this complaint and also to justify the steps Im requiring FIFS to take to put things right.
FIE - other exemptions in COBS
In my provisional decision,  and based on the submissions received from FIFSs 
representative to that point,  I also considered whether FIE was entitled  to rely on any of the 
other categories of exemption in COBS  4.12.4,  particularly category 2. The category 2 
Ref: DRN108206116exemption permitted promotion  to an investor where  the firm making the promotion  had 
taken reasonable  steps to ensure the investment to be promoted was suitable.  
I havent revisited this issue here as, following the further information  provided by FIFSs 
representative, I think it can now be established  this exemption isnt a relevant consideration 
as Mr Hs investment was promoted  after it was removed  by the changes to COBS  that took 
effect from 1 January  2014. But if Im wrong  about  the date FIE contacted Mr H and began  
promoting to him and this actually took place earlier, that wouldnt change my view that FIE 
promoted before he was referred to Sovereign  to consider whether the investment to be 
promoted was suitable. So, it would have  been  equally guilty  of an illegitimate promotion if 
following the sales process based  on the category 2 exemption before 1 January 2014. This 
would also be sufficient  reason to uphold  the complaint on the grounds Mr H wasnt  treated 
fairly and would result in me making  the same  award against  FIFS.
FIFS  was it entitled to rely on the category 7 exemption?
As set out above, I believe the actions  of FIE alone are sufficient for this complaint to be 
upheld. But for the sake  of completeness,  Ive also considered whether FIFS was entitled  to 
promote its investments to Mr H.
The category 7 exemption specifically says a firm could treat an investor as an elective 
professional client  if it complied with the relevant requirements. My interpretation of this is 
that the firm involved  in promoting UCIS needed to follow the appropriate steps itself. I dont 
think the rules allowed  FIFS  to delegate its regulatory responsibilities to another  party,  
Sovereign for example.  I believe  this interpretation is illustrated in the context of the third 
point in COBS  3.5.3. This says a client must state in writing  to the firm  which,  when read in 
the context of the rest of the rule, I think can only reasonably  be interpreted as referring  to 
the firm promoting  UCIS   that he/she wants to be treated as a professional client. I think  the 
same could be said of the requirements  for the firm  again,  the firm promoting the UCIS  to 
provide a clear  written  warning of the protections being given up and to obtain  confirmation 
of the clients  understanding of this.
While the correspondence  from the time appears  to show there was some  consideration of 
whether Mr H was an elective professional client, everything indicates this was carried out by 
Sovereign. Theres no suggestion from FIFSs representative that it took the steps required 
in COBS 3.5.3 and Ive found nothing else in the evidence  provided to show it did so. As a 
result, I dont think FIFS was entitled  to treat Mr H as a professional  client  or to promote  its 
investments to him on that basis.
Further, and as Ive already set out in respect  of the actions of FIE, I think the evidence 
shows that Mr H couldnt  reasonably have  been considered to have met the quantitative  test 
to be considered an elective professional client even if FIFS had carried out its own 
assessment.
So, it remains my conclusion  that FIFS failed to act in accordance with the rules covering the 
promotion of UCIS  and promoted its products to Mr H when it should have identified it wasnt 
appropriate to do so. Once again, because rules designed for his protection werent  
followed, I think I can only reasonably conclude FIFS didnt treat Mr H fairly. I believe this 
also represents sufficient  grounds on its own to uphold this complaint irrespective of the 
conclusions Ive reached about  the acts of FIE.
FIFS - other exemptions in COBS
Ref: DRN108206117In terms of the category 2 exemption in COBS, I think  its clear  this cant  apply  here and 
FIFS couldnt have  relied upon it. Ive reached  this conclusion  on the basis that FIFS didnt 
promote to Mr H until after Sovereign had assessed  him as an elective  professional client, as 
its representative has described the situation,  and the evidence  shows Sovereigns  
assessment of Mr Hs status took place after 1 January  2014  when this exemption no longer 
applied.
overall conclusions  on merits
As outlined  above,  Im satisfied that both FIE and FIFS failed to follow the rules designed for 
Mr Hs protection before  promoting his investment. The result  of this was that Mr C made an 
investment that he shouldnt have made  because  it should never have been promoted to him 
in the first place. To be clear, the actions of either FIE or FIFS on their own are sufficient for 
the complaint  to be upheld.
Putting things  right
The principal  aim of any award I make is to return Mr H to the position hed be in if FIFS and 
FIE (acting as an AR of FIFS and with its authority) hadnt promoted UCIS to him. I dont  
think its likely that Mr H would have made this investment off his own back and if FIE and 
FIFS hadnt promoted it to him, Im satisfied it wouldnt have taken place.  Further,  I dont 
think he would have  transferred his pension  benefits to the SIPP if he hadnt been  subject  to 
this sales process as the only reason  for doing so was to facilitate the use of the investment.
I appreciate FIFS and FIE werent the only regulated firms involved in the events that led to 
Mr H switching his pension benefits  and investing  in a UCIS.  But I think  any loss hes 
suffered as a result  wouldnt have happened  if these  firms hadnt approached and promoted 
to him in the first place.  On that basis, Im satisfied  its appropriate  to hold FIFS responsible  
for any loss.
As Ive said,  my aim in awarding  fair compensation is to put Mr H back  into the position  he 
would likely  have been in, but for the inappropriate actions of FIFS and FIE. If he hadnt 
been approached and promoted investments when he shouldnt have been,  I think he 
wouldnt have switched  his pension to the SIPP  and it would most likely have remained with 
Royal London, invested in the same funds as it had been before he was contacted by FIE. In 
deciding how compensation should be calculated, Ive also taken account of the fact Mr H 
has already received a payment from FSCS  in respect of the remaining  part of his SIPP  that 
wasnt invested in a UCIS through FIFS.
Any loss Mr H has suffered should  be determined by obtaining  from Royal London the 
notional value of the £15,000 of his pension that was invested  in the UCIS through  FIFS, on 
the basis that this amount had remained in the same fund(s). From  this notional value, the 
current value of the relevant portion of the SIPP  that is the percentage of the initial SIPP  
value that was invested in the UCIS  should be subtracted. If the value of the relevant 
portion of the SIPP is higher than the notional value,  theres  a gain and no redress is 
payable.
I consider the notional  value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint and 
it appears the FSCS was able to obtain such a figure for its calculation. But if Royal  London 
isnt able to calculate a notional value for some  reason, an alternative approach will be 
needed. To compensate Mr H fairly  in this situation,  FIFS should  compare the performance  
Ref: DRN108206118of the relevant portion  of his SIPP with that of the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income total 
return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return  index). 
This is made  up of a range  of indices with different asset classes,  mainly  UK equities and 
government bonds  and, in my view, is a reasonable proxy for the sort of returns Mr H could 
have achieved from suitable investments. 
Im aware Mr H has an income drawdown arrangement and has made withdrawals from his 
SIPP, but I dont  think this is relevant to the compensation calculation.  Any withdrawals can 
only have come from the remainder of the SIPP not funded by the illiquid UCIS. It also 
appears the FSCS took the withdrawals into account  in its calculation. 
Any compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Hs pension  plan. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional reduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
If Mr H hasnt yet taken  any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been  taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 28 days of the date FIFS 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to 
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 28 days, that it takes  FIFS to pay 
Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If FIFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
other considerations
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he would have been in but for the actions of FIFS. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here.
To calculate the compensation, FIFS should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs,  and take ownership  
of the investment. If FIFS is unable to buy the investment, it should  give it a nil value  for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP  used in the calculations should  
include anything FIFS has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP  should be deducted.
In return for this, FIFS may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking  to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
Ref: DRN108206119for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. FIFS will need to meet  any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If FIFS asks Mr H to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon  provision  of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.  
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by FIFS taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr H can discuss with the SIPP  provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that FIFS pay Mr H an upfront lump sum equivalent  to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed.
additional compensation
I think the problems  Mr H has experienced with his pension arrangements as a result of the 
actions of FIFS and its AR have  caused  him considerable  unnecessary  trouble and upset 
over a prolonged period  and that he should be compensated  for that. The precise impact of 
this situation on Mr H, and therefore the amount to award, is difficult  to assess.  But in the 
circumstances, I think  a substantial payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. FIFS would 
need to pay this amount direct to Mr H (not into his pension) in addition to any compensation 
calculated using the method outlined above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr H accepts my decision, Falcon  International  Financial Services  Ltd must  pay him 
compensation calculated using the method set out above. It should  provide him with details 
of its calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN108206120Extract from provisional decision
My Provisional Findings
Weve received detailed submissions in connection with this complaint, but I havent tried to address  
every single point raised here. Ive instead concentrated on what I think are the key issues  that are 
central to the outcome. 
I note FIFSs representative has referred to our response to a different case. Ive read that 
assessment carefully, but I think its relevant  to note that it was only the initial  view of the adjudicator 
and that the case doesnt  appear to have been considered by an ombudsman. In any event, I must 
consider each case on its own individual merits and thats what  Ive done here. 
I think  its also relevant  to note that our requirement to reach a fair and reasonable outcome relates  to 
our consideration of the merits  of a complaint. Any decision on whether  a complaint falls within  our 
jurisdiction must instead be based on the correct interpretation and application  of the relevant rules as 
theyre written.
My understanding of the submissions from FIFSs representative is that its saying the transaction  that 
led to the unregulated investment was a three-stage  process involving three different businesses.
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE, who gave  no advice and discussed the benefits  
of investing in land generally, and the structures that could be used  to facilitate this, without 
promoting a particular investment. It also referred  potential investors to an IFA, Sovereign,  for 
advice and FIE completed a fact find with the consumer to assist it with that. FIE was a 
separate company  to FIFS, but it had been  an AR of FIFS since August 2012.
The second stage  involving Sovereign. Its role was to provide advice  on whether an 
investment was suitable  for Mr H. Sovereign  also arranged the SIPP and the switch  of Mr Hs 
pension benefits. Sovereign was a regulated business  in its own right and its not appropriate 
for me to comment on its actions here, except where this is relevant to the outcome of the 
complaint about FIFS.
The final stage was the promotion of the specific land investment  by FIFS and the subsequent 
arrangement and management of it. 
Jurisdiction
The rules I must follow  in assessing all aspects  of this complaint are set out in the Dispute Resolution  
(DISP) rules, published as part of the FCA Handbook. The DISP  rules also set out the framework for 
determining what complaints I can and cant consider.
In terms of Mr Hs case, Im satisfied hes an eligible complainant, that we have territorial  jurisdiction, 
and that he complained within  the time limits set out in the DISP  rules. Another  point that needs to be 
addressed is whether the complaint relates to an activity  we cover. Under DISP 2.3.1, we can only 
consider a complaint  under  our compulsory  jurisdiction if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Based on the process  as described  by FIFS representative, this complaint  potentially involves the 
actions of two firms, FIE and FIFS.  This complaint  is against  FIFS, which was directly authorised and I 
dont think theres any grounds for disputing  that its responsible for its own actions. At the time Mr Hs 
investment was made, FIE was a separate firm but it was also an AR of FIFS. To determine whether I 
Ref: DRN108206121can consider  the actions  of FIE as part of the complaint, I must decide  whether  FIFS can be held 
responsible for the alleged  actions  of its AR.
DISP 2.3.3 says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the firm 
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm... has accepted  responsibility).
So, the issue  of whether FIFS  (the principal firm) is responsible for the alleged actions of FIE (its AR) 
involves a three-stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; and 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
section 39 of FSMA,  agency or vicarious liability.   
What are the acts complained of?
In his complaint  form, Mr H certainly said he was wrongly advised on his investment. But he also 
referred to the fact that he was cold-called  and says he was robbed  of his pension. As he also 
referred to the initial telephone contact,  which  FIFS representative has confirmed was made  by its 
AR, I think its clear Mr Hs complaint goes beyond just the actions of Sovereign. 
I think  its also relevant  to consider that Mr H doesnt appear to be an expert in financial and 
regulatory matters and wouldnt necessarily  understand exactly  how he came  to be in the position he 
now finds himself and which  of the various  firms he dealt with was ultimately responsible.  In saying he 
was robbed of his pension, I think  Mr H is essentially  calling into question  the whole sales process  
from initial call to his money being invested. 
The process  of selling the investment incorporated a number of different activities, including 
promoting it, advising on it, and arranging it. Some of these activities were carried out by FIE and 
FIFS. While  FIFSs representative believes  the complaint  is solely about  advice given  to Mr H, I think  
thats too narrow an interpretation. Because the complaint incorporates  a much wider range  of issues, 
I dont accept my consideration  should  be restricted to the issue of advice.
Are these acts regulated  activities or ancillary  to regulated activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in the RAO. Along with other investors, Mr H invested in plots of 
land with a view to planning  permission being obtained in the future  when the land could be sold at a 
profit. It seems  to be accepted the scheme is a UCIS. Units in a collective investment scheme  (CIS) 
are specified  as investments  (article  82).
Based on my understanding  of the submissions  from FIFS representative, its accepted that it carried 
out various regulated activities set out in the RAO in connection with Mr Hs investment. These 
include establishing and operating a CIS (article  51), arranging deals in investments  (article 25), and 
agreeing to arrange deals in investments (article 64). 
The activity of arranging deals  in investments is defined as:
(1) Making arrangements  for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite  a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a contractually based investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified  by article  86, or article 89 so far as relevant  to 
that article,
Ref: DRN108206122is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting  investments falling  within  paragraph (1)(a), (b) 
or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a specified kind of activity.
I think  the evidence also shows FIE was also involved  in the regulated activity of arranging 
investments. This is demonstrated by the following  correspondence provided in connection  with this 
complaint.
A letter from FIE to Novia dated 12 March 2014, which says:
Please find enclosed TP1 for Plot(s) XXX at Cane End, Reading for your reference 
stated above. Also enclosed is a signed comfort letter.
Can I please  kindly request you have the TP1 signed where indicated  by the yellow 
signature tabs and return the originals back to us at the following address:
Falcon International Estates
30 Crown Place,
London,
EC2A 2AL
We look forward to hearing from you.
A letter from FIE to Novia dated 1 May 2014, which  says:
Please find enclosed Title Deed for the following client:
Mr H  XXXXXX
This is for your safekeeping.
Should you have any further queries please do not hesitate  to contact me.
A letter from FIE to Mr H dated  6 May 2014, which says:
We are pleased  to confirm  that your purchase of plot(s) XXX,  Cane End, Reading has 
successfully completed registration at the UK Land Registry. The title is now 
registered under your SIPP Novia (Gross) Nominee Limited for which  your wrapper  
number is XXXXXX.
Should you have any queries then please do not hesitate to contact me.
A letter from FIE to Mr H dated  29 August  2014, which says:
Please find enclosed a Share Certificate for the 1 share(s) you now own in the 
management company as a consequence of your purchase mentioned above.
I can confirm that £1250.00 of the purchase proceeds per plot has been transferred to 
the Management  Company's bank account.
Please do not hesitate  to contact your broker should you have any queries.
The submissions from its representative also confirm FIFS was involved in promoting its UCIS 
investment to Mr H, once Sovereign  had completed its part of the process. By contacting Mr H 
Ref: DRN108206123initially, I think  FIE was also engaged  in this activity  and Ill say more  about  that later in this decision.  
The FCA defines a financial promotion simply as: 
an invitation or inducement  to engage in investment activity  . . . that is communicated  in the 
course of business
While promoting investments isnt specifically  listed in the RAO  as a regulated activity, Im satisfied it 
was essentially part of and/or ancillary  to the activities  or arranging and agreeing to arrange 
investments that FIFS and FIE were involved  in. I think this view is supported by section 8.23.2  of the 
Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG), which says:
 
Anyone who is carrying on a regulated activity is likely to make  financial promotions in the 
course of or for the purposes of carrying  on that activity. 
As an ancillary activity to that of arranging  Mr Hs investment,  Im satisfied a complaint  about 
promoting it by either FIE or FIFS is within  our jurisdiction  to consider as set out in DISP 2.3.1.
Is FIFS responsible for the acts of FIE by reason of section 39 of FSMA, agency or vicarious  liability?
DISP 2.3.3 says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So, a principal  is answerable  for complaints  about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to the 
business it has accepted responsibility  for.
On the subject of appointed representatives,  at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA  said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed,  and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.  
So, under section  39, the principal is required  to accept responsibility for that business,  which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However, the case  of Anderson  v Sense 
Network (2018) makes it clear the words part of in section 39 allow a principal firm to accept 
responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed description. In other words, FIFS  
was entitled to appoint FIE as a representative and limit the scope of the regulated activities it could  
carry out and that it would be responsible for.
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
Ref: DRN108206124the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility under section 39. In other words,  a principal cant avoid responsibility 
for activities it authorised  an AR to carry out just because those activities werent carried out in the 
way it wanted them to be. 
In terms of the acts of FIE being complained about here, the above means  FIFS is responsible  for 
them if they include acts for which it accepted responsibility under section 39 of FSMA.
The AR agreement set out the terms of the arrangement between FIFS and FIE. This document is 
very brief and the only reference to what FIE (and therefore its employees) was authorised to do is in 
sections 2 and 3, which  said:
2. The appointment is made in accordance  with the rules of the Financial Services Authority  
(FSA) and authorises the Representative to make arrangements enabling clients to enter into 
agreements with the Principal for financial  business in the categories for which the Principal is 
authorised.
3. The Representative shall carry on financial  business  solely through  the Principal in 
accordance with the rules of FSA and the Principal's  compliance manual. The Principal 
hereby accepts responsibility  for the financial  business conducted by the Representative 
pursuant to this agreement.
So, FIFS  authorised FIE to make arrangements to enable  clients to enter into agreements with FIFS 
for business in the categories  for which it was authorised. And I think its clear this is what FIE was 
doing when it initially contacted Mr H, spoke to him about investing, completed a fact find, and then 
referred him to an IFA. The process as described  by FIFSs representative is that FIEs  role was to 
find and introduce clients for its UCIS investments.  It wasnt  finding and introducing clients for 
Sovereigns IFA business, it was actually arranging  for those clients to be reviewed by the IFA with a 
view to them  investing in a UCIS with FIFS.
conclusions on jurisdiction
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied FIFS was engaged  in various regulated activities 
involved in operating, promoting and arranging  Mr Hs investment. I also believe FIE was engaged in 
the regulated  activity of arranging  and promoting investments.  Further, Im satisfied these  were 
activities FIE was authorised to carry out under the terms of its AR agreement  with FIFS and that 
FIFS is therefore  responsible for its acts.
Merits
As Ive already said, Im satisfied both FIE and FIFS  were involved in the activity of promoting 
investments and that this was ancillary to the regulated activities of arranging and agreeing to arrange  
investments. There were rules covering the promotion  of UCIS at the time Mr H invested.  The starting 
point in section 238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person must  not communicate an invitation or inducement to participate in a 
collective investment  scheme.
The CIS Exemptions Order sets out circumstances  where this restriction doesnt apply and, in relation 
to a complaint by another client sold a similar investment, FIFSs representative  referred specifically 
to article 13, which says:
The scheme  promotion restriction does not apply  to any communication which:
(a) does  not relate to units of a particular  unregulated  scheme  identified (directly or indirectly) 
in the communication; and
Ref: DRN108206125(b) does  not identify  (directly or indirectly) any person who operates  a collective investment 
scheme or sells units.
Ive considered this point  carefully, but I dont think I could reasonably conclude this exception applies 
here in respect of the actions of either FIE or FIFS. Even if Mr Hs recollections  arent  correct and FIE 
didnt discuss the particular scheme he invested in, the whole process described by FIFSs 
representative was designed  to end with an investment in one of its schemes. So I dont think  its 
reasonable to believe FIE didnt (either directly or indirectly) identify FIFS  as the eventual scheme  
operator. In terms of FIFS actions after Sovereign  had completed its part of the process, it clearly 
was promoting its own scheme  and this exception wouldnt therefore  apply.
There were  other exceptions to the general  prohibition  on promoting particular UCIS.  At the time of Mr 
Hs investment,  section 4.12.1 of The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) set out that:
(3)A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment  scheme  without  breaching  the restriction on promotion in section 
238 of the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in the table in (4), as explained 
further in the Notes.
(4)Where the left-hand  column in the table in (4) refers to promotion  to a category of person, 
this means that the invitation  or inducement:
(c)is made only to recipients who the firm has taken reasonable steps to establish 
are persons  in that category; or
(d)is directed at recipients  in a way that may reasonably be regarded as designed to 
reduce, so far as possible, the risk of participation in the collective investment 
scheme by persons who are not in that category.
The table referred to set out various categories of client to whom  it was acceptable  to promote UCIS.  
Ive reviewed this carefully and the only categories that I think could  potentially apply  here are 2, 7 
and 8 and Ive considered  each of these carefully.
A category  7 person was defined as:
An eligible counterparty  or a professional client.
The definition  of a professional client  included  elective professional clients.  FIFS representative 
hasnt specifically  argued  that in this case Mr H was treated  as an elective professional  client.  But it 
has provided  a copy of a letter that appears to have been signed by Mr H and was dated 4 March 
2014, which at the time was described as a comfort letter,  that says:
I further confirm  that I have  elected to be classified as a "professional client. 
To have been  appropriately considered and treated  as an elective professional client,  all three of the 
criteria set out in COBS 3.5.3 would have needed to be satisfied. This said:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality  as an elective 
professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable,  (2):
(4)the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative  test");
Ref: DRN108206126(5)in relation to MiFID  or equivalent third country business  in the course  of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client  has carried  out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant  market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds  EUR 500,000;
(c) the client  works  or has worked in the financial  sector for at least  one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(6)the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally  or in respect of a particular service or transaction  
or type of transaction  or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c)  the client  must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is 
aware of the consequences  of losing  such protections.
This specifically says a firm could treat an investor as an elective professional  client if it complied 
with the relevant requirements. My interpretation of this is that the firm involved in promoting  UCIS 
needs to follow the appropriate steps itself. I dont  think the rules  allowed FIFS to delegate  its 
regulatory responsibilities to another party,  Sovereign  for example. I believe this interpretation is 
illustrated in the context  of the third point above. This says a client must  state in writing to the firm  
which, when read in the context of the rest of the rule, I think can only reasonably be interpreted as 
referring to the firm promoting UCIS  that he/she wants to be treated as a professional client. I think 
the same could be said of the requirements  for the firm  again, the firm promoting  the UCIS  to 
provide a clear written  warning of the protections  being  given up and to obtain confirmation of the 
clients understanding of this.
While it appears  there may have been some consideration of whether  Mr H was an elective 
professional client, FIFSs representative has not suggested that either FIE or FIFS took the steps set 
out in COBS 3.5.3 that meant  Mr H could be treated as an elective professional client.  And Ive found 
nothing else in the evidence provided  to indicate it did so either.  
Further, based on everything in front of me currently, I dont  think it can reasonably  be argued that 
any of the requirements  set out above were  carried  out by FIE before its initial unsolicited call to Mr H. 
As a result, I dont think either firm could rely on this exclusion to promote UCIS to him.
A category  8 person was defined as:
A person :
(1)in relation to whom  the firm has undertaken an adequate assessment of his expertise, 
experience and knowledge and that assessment  gives reasonable  assurance, in light of 
the nature of the transactions or services envisaged, that the person is capable  of making 
his own investment  decisions and understanding the risks involved;
(2)to whom the firm has given a clear  written warning that this will enable the firm to 
promote unregulated collective  investment schemes to the client;  and
Ref: DRN108206127(3)who has stated in writing,  in a document separate from the contract, that he is aware of 
the fact the firm can promote certain unregulated  collective investment schemes to him.
Again, I think  the wording  of the rule means the steps described had to be taken by the firm, so FIE or 
FIFS, before promoting UCIS to Mr H. Theres nothing in the description of the process  by FIFS  
representative or the other evidence  provided that I believe shows either firm carried  out an 
assessment of Mr Hs expertise, experience and knowledge, or that they gave the necessary written 
warning or obtained a separate statement from him. So again, that means neither FIFS  or FIE could 
rely on this exclusion to promote  UCIS  to him.
Finally, a Category 2 person was defined  as:
A person :
(a)for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
(b)who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted'  client of the firm or of a person in the 
same group  as the firm (see Notes  2 & 3).
To legitimately promote UCIS to Mr H under this particular exemption, the firm doing the promotion  
would have first needed  to take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that such  an investment was suitable  
for him. 
In terms of FIE, Ive seen no evidence to indicate it carried out a suitability assessment before making  
an unsolicited call to Mr H to promote  UCIS. The description  of the process  by FIFSs representative 
is consistent with this interpretation and seems to accept there  was no consideration of suitability 
before Mr H was referred  to Sovereign, by which time Im satisfied promotion had already taken  place. 
In the circumstances,  I dont think FIE was entitled to rely on this exemption.
For FIFS, theres also nothing  in the process described by its representative or the other evidence  Ive 
seen to indicate  it carried  out a suitability  assessment.  Instead, it seems to have relied  on this having 
been done by Sovereign at the previous  stage  of the process. That some sort of assessment of 
suitability was completed by Sovereign is supported by the comfort letter dated 3 March 2014, which  
also says Mr H had:
seen and accept the suitability report prepared for me by Sovereign Financial Services.
In my view,  the wording  of this category is less clear than the others Ive considered in saying  that the 
firm promoting the investment must assess suitability  itself. Instead, it says the firm must  take 
reasonable steps  to ensure  the scheme being promoted is suitable and FIFS might want to argue  that 
includes accepting  the word of an IFA that has completed its own assessment.
The circumstances in which its appropriate  for one firm to rely on information provided by another  
which in this case would be information from Sovereign  that FIFSs UCIS investments were suitable  
for Mr H - is addressed in COBS 2.4. In my view, the relevant sections are COBS 2.4.6 to 2.4.8. I 
dont think COBS  2.4.4 applies as that specifically refers to a firm receiving an instruction from 
another, which wasnt the situation here. At the time Mr H invested, the rules said:
Reliance on others: other situations
COBS 2.4.6
(1) This rule applies if the rule on reliance on other investment firms (COBS 2.4.4 R) does not 
apply.
Ref: DRN108206128(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information  
provided to it in writing  by another person.
COBS 2.4.7 
(1) In relying on COBS 2.4.6 R, a firm should take reasonable steps to establish  that the 
other person providing written information is not connected with the firm and is competent to 
provide the information.
(2) Compliance with (1) may be relied  upon as tending to establish compliance with COBS 
2.4.6 R.
(3) Contravention of (1) may be relied upon as tending to establish contravention  of COBS 
2.4.6 R.
COBS 2.4.8
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided  to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional  
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware  of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds  to question  the accuracy of that information.
So, for FIFS to rely on information  provided by Sovereign, the rules  required it was reasonable for it to 
do so. In considering this point,  I think  its appropriate to refer to the FCAs  Principles for Businesses.  
The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, were a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G).  Principles 2, 3 and 6 
said:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct  its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate  risk management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests   A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC  999 (Admin)  Ouseley J 
said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules  
are added. The Principles  always have to be complied with. The Specific  rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They  are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion  that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles  is inappropriate.  It cannot  be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory  duty for the Ombudsman to reach  a 
view on a case  without taking the Principles into account  in deciding what  would  be fair and 
reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been  produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular  statutory  duty without having  regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which  find expression  in the Principles, whoever formulated them.  
They are of the essence  of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
Ref: DRN108206129Subsequently Jacobs J at paragraph 104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service having  set out some paragraphs  of the British Banking Association judgment, 
including paragraph  162 set out above, said;
These passages explain  the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly  
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation  
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose  general  duties such as those  set out in Principles 2 and 
6.
So, the Principles have a wide application,  and I need to have regard to them  when deciding  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transaction promoted  to Mr H essentially involved moving his pension  funds to an unregulated,  
high-risk, investment that presented the possibility he could lose most or all of his money, thereby 
putting him at significant risk of detriment. In the circumstances, I dont think  it was consistent with the 
Principles for FIFS to simply accept Sovereigns word that this proposition was suitable without at 
least seeing evidence  to demonstrate  that was the case. Failure to obtain sufficient  evidence before 
promoting UCIS was in my view contrary to the Principles  requiring  FIFS to act with appropriate care 
and diligence,  to organise and control its affairs  responsibly and to have due regard to his interests.  In 
short, I dont think it would have been treating Mr H fairly.
At this stage, FIFS hasnt provided any documentation obtained from Sovereign at the time indicating 
the investments  it was promoting were suitable for Mr H. But I have reviewed Mr Hs circumstances  at 
the time to consider whether it would  have  been  reasonable for FIFS to determine its UCIS was 
suitable for him before  promoting it.
At the time he invested, I understand Mr H was in his mid-fifties, was married with no other financial 
dependants, and owned his own home. Hes told us he worked as a service engineer earning  around 
£28,000 per year and planned to retire  at age 65. In terms of his investment experience, he says he 
had an individual savings account  (ISA) worth  around £500 and hadnt made  investments or traded  in 
land previously. He also says he was paying into the occupational pension scheme  offered by his 
employer.
The UCIS promoted and sold to Mr H wasnt held in a well-diversified selection of equities  and other 
assets. It invested solely in plots of land at a single site. Further, it was an unregulated investment 
that meant he couldnt  fall back on the protection offered by the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) if things went wrong. This was a high-risk, specialised  investment of the type the 
industry regulator had said shouldnt  be promoted to unsophisticated retail  investors.
Based on his recollection of his circumstances, and in the absence  of anything obtained from 
Sovereign at the time,  I dont think it could reasonably  be said that Mr H was a particularly  
knowledgeable or experienced investor and certainly not in terms of the investment FIFS  promoted to 
him. It may have been the case that he was willing to take some risk with his money, but I dont think 
anything has been provided to demonstrate it was appropriate to advise him to make an unregulated,  
high-risk, specialised investment.
So, if FIFS  had obtained a suitability assessment  from Sovereign at the time, , as I think  it ought to 
have done to comply with the Principles, I dont  think  it could  reasonably have concluded that it was 
entitled to promote  UCIS to Mr H.
Ref: DRN108206130Taking everything into account, I dont  think  it was reasonable for either  FIE or FIFS to consider that 
any of the exclusions covering the promotion of UCIS applied in Mr Hs case. So I think  I can only 
reasonably conclude that both firms should  have decided  they couldnt promote to him and refrained 
from doing  so. Its for this reason that Im proposing  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN1082061