K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains, through his representative, that MBNA Limited gave him credit  he could not 
afford, that they did not notify him when they increased the credit limit on one of his MBNA 
accounts, and that he was not aware of the charges for transfers  of money  that he made.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 13th August 2019 where  I partially  upheld 
Mr Es complaint. In that decision I set out the background to this case which I repeat below.
Mr E had three credit card accounts  with MBNA which he opened in 2004,  2009 and 2010. 
In March 2018 he told MBNA that he was in financial difficulties. He says that at this point 
they established that he had overall  debts in excess  of £70,000 which  was more  than his 
annual salary.
MBNA reviewed Mr Es income  and expenditure and could see that he was unable to make 
the monthly  payments.  So they reduced  his monthly  payments to zero,  stopped charging him 
interest, and waived any future late, over limit and returned payment fees.  His accounts were 
placed with a specialist team.
Mr E says that he had found himself in a spiral  of debt and that MBNA should not have given 
him the credit they did because he could not afford it. He says he shouldnt have been 
allowed to have three credit cards.
He also says that MBNA, on their own initiative, increased the credit limit on one of his credit  
cards from £5600 to £10,600 in November 2015 without considering whether he could afford 
it. At the time of the increase Mr E says he already had debts on four other credit cards  (two 
of these were with MBNA)  in addition to a mortgage and three  unsecured  personal  loans 
with other lenders.  He says he has no record of receiving a letter from MBNA on the 
proposed increase. MBNA  also increased  his credit  limit on another  of his accounts  in May 
2016 from £500 to £1000.
Mr E further complains that he was unaware  of the charges  for transfers  of money  that he
made and wants the charges repaid.
MBNA say that customers are allowed  to hold multiple credit  cards and that they carried  out 
affordability checks both when Mr E opened  his accounts and throughout the time the 
accounts are open. They say that following a review of his credit  status Mr E was granted  
credit limit increases on account ending X482 and X280.
MBNA say that they assigned Mr E credit limits that they considered appropriate  and Mr E 
was allowed to make transactions within those credit limits. They say that there  was nothing 
unusual about how Mr E was using the cards, and that he was managing his accounts within  
those credit  limits and making his payments on time. He was also paying one of his credit  
cards in full every month.
MBNA say they wrote to Mr E about  the £5000 credit increase and that he was free to say 
that he did not want to accept  it.
MBNA say their handling fees for balance transfers and money transfers are clearly 
explained online and over the phone.
Ref: DRN15118792Our investigator thought that MBNA  had not done anything wrong.  Mr E did not agree so this 
case was passed  to me for review.
my provisional findings
I have set out my provisional findings  below  so that all the information is in one document:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I can see that Mr E and his 
representatives feel strongly about what has happened. Mr E has clearly gone 
through  and is continuing to go through  a very difficult  time. I am sorry to hear 
that his health and family have been  significantly affected.
Mr Es representatives have put forward  detailed  arguments on his behalf  for which  
I am grateful. Having  considered matters  carefully, I intend to partially  uphold this 
complaint and I shall explain  my reasons. I may not refer to every  point raised by 
each of the parties, but I have referred to those that I consider most  relevant to my 
decision.
It is accepted that when Mr E told MBNA that he was in financial difficulties in 
March 2018 MBNA were positive and sympathetic to his situation and took steps to 
assist him. Mr Es complaint is about  MBNAs actions prior to that point.
multiple credit cards
Mr E says that MBNA should not have given him three credit  cards. He got these 
credit cards in 2004, 2009 and 2010.  Our investigator has explained  that our rules  on 
time limits mean that we cannot consider  when these accounts were  opened.  Mr Es 
representatives accept  this but say that this does not mean that the balances on the 
different accounts are irrelevant to when Mr E was offered  further credit. I agree with 
this and I deal with the further credit offered below.
increase of credit limit on account ending X482
Mr E has indicated that this is his main concern. He did not apply for a credit limit 
increase of £5000 in November 2015   MBNA decided to increase it themselves, 
having carried out affordability checks. MBNA say they took into account how Mr E 
had managed his account as well as information from credit reference  agencies. 
Mr E says they shouldnt  have given  him more credit because he couldnt  afford it. So 
I have considered whether or not MBNAs checks were sufficient in order  to decide  if 
they treated  Mr E fairly and reasonably. And from the evidence  I have seen so far, 
I am not satisfied that they were.
First, Mr E had three credit cards with MBNA and while  they say information on all 
there cards  was taken  into account,  the increase in credit  limit in November 2015 
meant Mr E had a total credit of around  £18,000 across  the three MBNA credit cards.
Ref: DRN15118793And Mr E had other debts. In September 2015  just  months before  MBNA  decided  to 
give Mr E another £5000  in credit  in November  Mr E took out a loan with another  
provider (who  I shall call X) for £25,000. So after MBNA increased his credit  limit, the 
total credit on his MBNA accounts  and this other  loan totalled over £40,000. Mr E 
says that at this time he also had two further  credit cards with other providers, a 
further loan with X, and another  loan with a different  provider which would mean his 
total amount of credit was even higher. 
I have looked  at the statements for Mr Es MBNA accounts to see how he managed 
these in 2015. Looking at the 12 months  or so leading up to the credit limit increase, 
Mr E had been generally paying around  £50 a month on account  X482, which was 
just above the minimum monthly  payment. I appreciate that this meant he was 
keeping up with his payments but he certainly wasnt reducing the balance 
significantly.
The evidence indicates that Mr E was juggling  debts. Because  the only times Mr E 
did briefly reduce this account balance significantly in that 12 month  period was when 
he made large payments on two occasions only for these to be followed soon 
afterwards by larger balance transfers into the account. In November 2014  he made 
a balance  transfer  into the account of around £5000 (having made a large  payment 
just before of around £3000) and then in October  2015 he made  a balance transfer  of 
£5000 (having  just made a large  payment of around £4000).  So Mr Es use of credit  
on this account  actually increased  in those months. And in August 2015 he made  
another balance  transfer of £5350 into MBNA account X808.
I have looked at bank statements  for Mr Es current account.  This looks like it 
receives Mr Es salary and mainly  has money transferred in and out of it to other 
accounts. There was a point at the end of August 2015 just a few months  before 
MBNA decided to increase the credit limit on his account in November  that he was 
overdrawn on this account by more  than £1000 (albeit within  an agreed overdraft) 
which suggests that his income  was insufficient to meet his expenditure.
I appreciate that MBNA  say they relied on information from credit reference agencies 
and also considered how Mr E had used his accounts with them,  but I do not find 
these checks to have  been  robust enough  in the circumstances.  MBNA  did not ask 
for evidence  of income or expenditure. Had they done so, they would have seen that 
Mr E did not receive income every month and when he did it was in varying amounts.
Had their review of Mr Es use of MBNA  accounts  been  more  probing, they would 
have seen  evidence of juggling  of debts  by way of balance transfers. And while  Mr E 
might have been keeping up with monthly payments, had MBNA looked further they 
would have found that the overall amount of unsecured debt he had at the time they 
decided to give him an extra £5000  credit was considerable. I appreciate MBNAs 
point that Mr E could have rejected the extra credit they gave him, but by this point 
he was in a spiral of debt so didnt because of his vulnerable circumstances.
communication of credit limit increase
The terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts  say that if MBNA decide to increase his 
credit limit, they will let him know at least 30 days beforehand and that he can tell 
them if he doesnt want to receive the increase.
Ref: DRN15118794MBNAs notes for account X482 show the credit line increase was on 
4 November 2015. They say they would have  notified Mr E by email if hed provided  
an email address and by post if he hadnt. Mr E says that he did not have any letters 
sent to his home address, so it seems most  likely  that this would have been sent by 
email.
However, Mr E says he has no record of notification and asks why MBNA  have not 
provided a copy  of the notification if this was sent. MBNA say they do not have copy  
of what was sent to Mr E. As this was a few years ago and businesses do not retain 
copies of every communication sent to a customer,  I do not think  this is unreasonable  
But Ive seen a template letter  so can see what  its likely  Mr E was told. And the fact 
that Mr E used  the further credit in that same month  demonstrates that he was aware  
of the credit  limit increase.
The notification also included information on how Mr E could tell MBNA that he did 
not want the credit increase. I can see that Mr E has also previously requested a 
reduction in credit limit which suggests that he was aware that this was something he 
could do. And while Mr E says that he did not receive the notification,  I consider it 
unlikely he would  have  rejected the credit increase even if he had seen it due to his 
vulnerable circumstances.
credit limit increase  on account ending X280
Although this was not Mr Es main concern, our investigator also considered  how 
MBNA increased the credit limit on this account in May 2016  from £500 to £1000.  
While Mr E managed this account reasonably  well, Ive not seen any evidence  to 
suggest his overall  financial position  had improved significantly from November 2015.  
In fact after the credit  limit increase on account  X482, Mr E immediately used the 
extra £5000 credit  by doing another balance transfer into the account  of around that 
amount in November 2015 and in December 2015  made a further balance transfer of 
£1250 into his third MBNA account  X808. This is further evidence of Mr E merely 
juggling debts which would have  come to light had MBNA probed more  deeply before 
increasing his credit  limit on this account also.
charges
Mr E complains about the charges  applied by MBNA when he transferred money into 
his accounts. So Ive considered the evidence provided on whether he was made 
aware of these charges. 
MBNA have provided screen  shots of what a customer would see when they made  a 
transfer online and this does include information  on charges.
MBNA no longer have  audio recordings of any requests to transfer money over the 
phone but they have  provided call scripts from 2015 that their call handlers  follow  
when carrying  out such a transaction. This includes advising the customer of the 
charge to be applied when the money  is transferred.
Ref: DRN15118795While I cant  be sure that Mr E was told about the charges on the phone  at the time 
of any transfer, I can see that Mr Es account statements set out any charges that 
were applied. If he had not been made  aware  of charges at the time he made a 
transfer request on the phone, it would have  been reasonable to expect him to raise 
this with MBNA when  he saw his statements (whether online or in hard copy form).
So, on balance, in my view the evidence shows that MBNA did make Mr E aware of 
the charges applied when  he transferred money.
how to put things right
As I am minded  to find that MBNA should not have increased the credit  limits on 
accounts X482 and X280, I need  to also consider what steps should be taken to put 
things right. I appreciate  that Mr E would like to have the credit increase amounts to 
be written  off but I do not consider this to be fair because  he has had use of the 
funds. However,  I do think that any interest, charges or fees applied on the additional 
credit he was given should  be refunded (excluding  balance transfer fees).
my provisional decision
For the reasons I have explained, but subject to any further  information or evidence  
I might  receive  from either Mr E or MBNA  Limited, my provisional  decision is that 
I am minded to uphold this complaint in part.
I propose to order MBNA Limited to refund to Mr E any interest, charges  or fees 
(excluding balance  transfer fees) applied on the following accounts:
Account X482 - on any balances for relevant transactions above the previous 
credit limit of £5,600  from November 2015
Account X280 - on any balances for relevant transactions above the previous 
credit limit of £500 from May 2016.
This may require MBNA to re-construct Mr Es accounts and apply a zero interest 
rate to the appropriate  balances and transactions. That will be a matter  for MBNA. 
But it must  be able to demonstrate clearly  how it has arrived at the necessary 
adjustments, taking into account the subsequent balance  transfers (which may have  
been at zero or preferential interest  rates).
response to my provisional  findings
Both parties  responded to my provisional  decision. I have reviewed all the information  
provided and have summarised  the main points  here.
Mr Es representatives said that they felt that the reasons for their complaint had been 
understood. They explained  that the conclusions  support their belief that MBNA did not at 
any time consider  the impact on a customer who was already showing clear  signs  of income 
stress to current  commitments  before offering  additional credit without making adequate and 
robust affordability checks.  
So they ask that further consideration be given to writing off some of the debt Mr E had with 
MBNA as a result of him using the extended credit theyd given him in addition to the refund 
of interest I proposed  in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN15118796Mr Es representatives also brought to my attention  an article about the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and persistent debt.
MBNA made  the following  points:
they explained that theyd carried out appropriate affordability checks prior to offering  
the increased credit  limits to Mr E and said that these did not indicate any financial 
difficulty;
they pointed out that this included taking into account the operation  of Mr Es existing 
MBNA accounts where Mr E had not missed any payments or paid late which  
indicated that he had sufficient income to maintain  the minimum payments;
they said they would  have also taken into account the previous income figures 
submitted by Mr E at the time of making  his account applications (£38,000 in 2004, 
£47,500 in 2009;  and £56,000 in 2010);
whilst  they appreciated that these figures  were some  time prior to the offered  
increases, a subsequent credit limit increase request by Mr E himself in November 
2016 stated his income as £80k;
they said the above request for a credit limit increase shows that Mr E was actively 
seeking to increase his credit  limit and said that some  of the factors considered  in 
offering increases are the income level itself;
they said they would not be able to differentiate as to whether payments received 
were balance transfers or actual payments  from Mr E and that large payments from a 
customer are indicative of good  affordability  and low credit risk 
they that said it is quite common for customers to move  balances between  cards to 
take advantage of promotional rates.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While I may not comment  on every point 
raised by the parties,  I have thought carefully  about all the information  provided  to me in 
order to reach this final decision.
I acknowledge the complex nature  of this case and I appreciate  that neither  party may be 
happy with this final decision. But I must  emphasise the informal  nature of this dispute  
resolution service and I believe my decision reflects  a fair and pragmatic approach to allow 
the parties to move forward. It reflects the particular circumstances of Mr E and does not 
necessarily mean that seemingly similar cases will be dealt with in the same way.
Ref: DRN15118797credit limit increase on account ending X482 
I have carefully considered both responses  to my provisional findings and on balance I am 
still not persuaded that MBNA carried out sufficient  checks to assess  affordability. In my view 
MBNA did not act fairly and reasonably when they increased the credit limit on this account  
by £5000 on their own initiative. The checks they carried  out provided only a superficial 
picture of Mr Es financial situation,  and had they probed more  deeply they would have 
realised the true position  and would probably not have  increased the credit  limit in the way 
they did. I shall explain my reasons for this conclusion.
Mr E had a total of three credit cards with MBNA which gave him combined credit of £18,000 
after they increased his credit limit by £5000 on this account. At this time, Mr E also had 
credit from various  other providers by way of loans and credit cards. So the amount of his 
overall debt was significant.
 
Although Mr E may not have missed payments or made late payments on this account,  he 
was not reducing its balance significantly.  When  he did make  large payments into the 
account, even larger balance transfers  were made shortly afterwards meaning that the 
overall amount  of his debt was only increasing.
While MBNA say that they would not be able to differentiate as to whether large payments 
received were balance  transfers  or actual payments from Mr E, had they looked into the 
operation of his accounts more fully, they would have realised that Mr E was merely moving  
money around and juggling  his debts.
I appreciate that it might be common for customers to move  balances  between cards to take 
advantage of promotional  rates but here in only 12 months before MBNA increased his credit 
limit on their own initiative, Mr E had twice made large payments on this account  that were  
soon followed by even larger  balance transfers,  with a further large  balance transfer being  
made on yet another MBNA account  in the same period.
MBNA also did not make  any checks on Mr Es income. At the time of the credit increase in 
November 2015  MBNAs most recent  record of Mr Es income was £56,000  from 2010. No 
checks were made to see if this was still the case and no evidence requested.
Had MBNA probed a little further,  they would have seen  that Mr E did not receive income 
every month and when he did it was in varying amounts. Further, his current  account was 
overdrawn just months before they increased  his credit limit which  indicates that his income  
was not sufficient to meet  his expenditure.
MBNA have indicated that Mr E had himself stated that he had an income of £80,000 in 
November 2016 when  he applied for a subsequent  credit limit increase. But this statement of 
income is one year after MBNA decided to increase his credit limit by £5000 in 
November 2015  so would not have  been relevant to their considerations at that time. And 
I cant ignore the fact that when Mr E asked for more credit in 2016 having stated this higher 
income, MBNA declined  his request.  
So in my view, had MBNA carried out better  checks on affordability  they would not have 
increased the credit limit on this account  in the way they did. And while  it might  be said that 
Mr E could have rejected  the extra  credit  they gave him, by this point  he was in a spiral of 
debt so didnt  because of his vulnerable circumstances.
Ref: DRN15118798communication of credit limit increase
No party provided any further evidence on this point. So I remain  of the view that Mr E was 
aware of the credit limit increase on this account  as he used it in the same month  it was 
given. And while Mr E says that he did not receive MBNAs notification, I consider it unlikely 
he would have rejected the credit  increase even if he had seen it due to his vulnerable 
circumstances.
credit limit increase on account ending X280
Ive not seen any further evidence to suggest  Mr Es overall financial position  had improved 
significantly from November 2015 to May 2016 when MBNA increased the credit  limit on this 
account by another  £500.  And  as Ive already  said - MBNA refused Mr Es request for 
further credit  later in the same year even when he told them he had an income  of £80,000. 
So I do not think it was fair and reasonable to increase the credit limit on this account either.
charges
I have  not seen any further evidence  about  the charges applied  by MBNA when Mr E made 
transfers into his account. So my view on this issue remains unchanged. I have seen screen  
shots of what a customer  would see when  they made a transfer online and this does include 
information on charges . Ive also seen  call scripts  of what customers  would be told if they 
made balance  transfers on the phone  and this also includes  reference to charges being 
applied. In any event, if Mr E had not been made aware of the charges  at the time he made 
the transfers,  it would  be reasonable to expect him to raise this with MBNA when he saw his 
statements. So on balance  I think Mr E was made aware  of the charges for the balance 
transfers he made. 
how to put things right
So my final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint as in my view MBNA  did not act 
fairly and reasonably when they increased  the credit  limits  on accounts X482 and X280 in 
the way they did. And  as I said in my provisional  decision   I think they should refund Mr E 
some interest. 
I can see that Mr E and his family have suffered considerably  as a result of Mr Es 
accumulation of debt and I understand why he asks for some  of the credit increase amounts 
to be written off in addition to my proposed award covering interest.  But I do not think writing 
off these amounts  would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When MBNA gave Mr E a further £5000 of credit on account  X482  in November 2015, he 
immediately used it by making  a balance transfer of £4750. So he was effectively 
transferring a debt he had accumulated elsewhere. I do not consider it fair that MBNA should 
have to bear the cost of this debt. And Mr E did gain some benefit from using the extra  
£5000 of credit because a promotional rate of 0% interest  was applied to the balance 
transfer sum which is likely to have been the reason Mr E made  the transfer. 
Ref: DRN15118799The 0% promotional rate on that balance  transfer  expired around the end of February  2017. 
Interest was then applied to the outstanding balance between March  and July 2017. This 
totalled £136.28. While the overall  balance of the account at this time was now within the 
original credit limit of £5600, the interest  related to the remainder  of the balance transfer 
Mr E had made in November 2015  when  the credit  limit was increased.  So I consider it fair 
and reasonable that MBNA  pay this interest  back to him.
I note that Mr E made another  balance transfer of £9500 into this account  in May 2017,  
having reduced the balance on this account  by making large payments in January and then 
May of the same year.  So he again used the extended credit limit. But this had a promotional  
rate of 0% interest until May 2018 so no relevant  interest was incurred on this balance  
transfer sum.
In the months that followed, Mr E only made minimum  payments on the account. In January  
2018 he made a money transfer of £750. While  the interest applied  to this was only £4.62, 
the money transfer was only possible because of the extended credit limit. So MBNA should 
also refund  this interest back to Mr E.
So the total amount of interest MBNA need to pay back to Mr E on account X482 is £140.90. 
I appreciate that this must  seem  a small sum compared to the overall amount of debt that 
Mr E found himself in. But as he had use of 0% promotional rates of interest on the balance  
transfers he made, it meant he did not in fact incur a high amount of interest on the account.  
And I have  not been able to identify any other charges (other than the balance transfer fees 
which I have dealt  with above).
I have also examined account X280 where  the credit limit was increased  from £500  to £1000  
in May 2016. Mr E generally  paid off the balance on this account in full each month and only 
a small amount of interest was applied that related to the part of the balance that was over 
the initial credit limit. This was £16.17. I consider it fair and reasonable that this interest also 
be paid back to Mr E because it would not have been incurred had MBNA not increased  the 
credit limit on this account in the way they did.
So the total interest MBNA need  to pay back to Mr E is £157.07.  I realise that Mr E may 
have been hoping for a higher amount so this decision may be disappointing. I have looked 
at the news article  Mr Es representatives provided about  credit card providers and 
persistent debt. While it focuses primarily on interest rates and penalties charges adding  to 
existing debt which is not what happened here, I understand why it has been brought to my 
attention and am sympathetic  to Mr Es overall  situation. But my decision has to address the 
specific issues in this particular case. And in my view it would not be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask MBNA to do anything more.
Ref: DRN151187910my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I partially  uphold  this complaint. I order MBNA Limited to pay 
to Mr E the total sum of £157.07 comprising of:
interest in the amount of £140.90 on account X482 and;
interest in the amount of £16.17  on account  X280.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1511879