K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Greenwood Personal Credit  Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she 
couldnt afford the repayments as she had other  debts and a lower income as a student.  She 
says she was reliant on credit. 
background
This complaint is about three home  credit loans  Greenwood provided to Mrs C between May 
2008 and April 2010.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repaymentsdate ended
1 24/05/2008 £20 25 £0.80 07/10/2008
2 08/10/2009 £200 55 £6.40 13/04/2010
3 08/04/2010 £300 55 £9.60 13/12/2010
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought the business  was wrong to 
approve loan 3 as Mrs C had problems repaying  loan 2. 
Greenwood disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me. It said Mrs C was repaying fortnightly rather than weekly,  and so she wasnt  really  
missing any repayments  and it wasnt relevant that she was shown as unemployed on its 
records. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term and high cost credit  - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Greenwood needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to make sure Mrs C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Greenwood should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN14079912the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Mrs C didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because  of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about  these loans. So I wont  be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Mrs C had with 
Greenwood. So they are something I will take into account when considering  the other loans 
she took.
Loan 2 was taken out for £200 and Mrs C was due to repay £6.40 a week  for 55 weeks. As 
Greenwood have confirmed Mrs C wasnt really able to do this. In the earlier part of the loan 
she repaid £10 every two weeks  for some  of the time.  I understand this was because  her 
benefits were paid every two weeks. She did increase this to £12.80  at times but not always. 
She also made a few catch up payments.  
So whilst it might not be entirely right to say that Mrs C struggled  to make the loan 
repayments. I think the fact that she couldnt  always make the full weekly payment shows 
that she was at the limit of what she could sustainably repay over this period of time. 
Mrs C started  loan 3 while loan 2 was still running. She borrowed £300 and it looks like 
around half of this was used to clear the balance of loan 2. Her weekly payments were  
increased to £9.60.  
This is a significant increase and would  mean  that Mrs C would be paying close  to around  
£40 a month, and sometimes  more.  Given her repayment history in loan 2, I dont think it 
was reasonable  for Greenwood to assume that Mrs C could  make  the repayments to loan 3. 
I dont think it was responsible to lend to her. So Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint  about 
loan 3. 
Ref: DRN14079913putting things right  what Greenwood needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mrs Cs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Greenwood to take off tax from this interest.  Greenwood 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Greenwood Personal Credit should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1407991