K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Car Finance Company (2007) Limited  didnt respond  to 
their financial  difficulties  promptly and sympathetically.
background 
A used  car was supplied to Mr and Mrs B under  a hire purchase agreement with the Car 
Finance Company that was signed  in June 2015. The agreement had a term of three  years  
and Mr and Mrs B were to make  monthly payments of about  £275. They  contacted the Car 
Finance Company in June 2017  because they said that they were experiencing financial 
difficulties. A reduced repayment arrangement couldnt be agreed and Mr and Mrs B 
complained to the Car Finance Company in November 2017  about the service that theyd 
received. They werent  satisfied with its response so complained to this service in December 
2017. The Car Finance Company started procedures to recover the car from Mr and Mrs B 
in February 2018   but they were put on hold until a decision  on their complaint  has been 
made by this service.
my provisional decisions
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr and Mrs B and to the Car Finance Company on 14 August 2018. And then, having 
considered further  evidence  from the parties, I issued a second  provisional decision to them 
on 6 December 2018. In my second  provisional  decision I said as follows:
Mr and Mrs B hadnt made any of the payments  that were due under the agreement 
from June to November  2017 (and they havent made any payments since  then). 
They provided a completed income and expenditure form to the Car Finance 
Company in October 2017 which showed that they had a disposable income  of £88 
each month. But later that month  Mrs B said that they could afford  to make monthly 
repayments of £180  for six months. The following month, the Car Finance Company 
asked Mrs B to explain how the £180  payment was affordable for them  as that wasnt  
what their income and expenditure form was showing. And it then said that it couldnt 
accept their repayment proposal  as the monthly  repayment due under the agreement  
was £274.30 so, if it accepted less than that, the arrears on the account  would grow. 
And it offered Mrs B the option to voluntarily terminate the agreement. Three days 
later, Mrs B asked some questions about a voluntary termination  but the following 
day Mr and Mrs B received an e-mail from the Car Finance Company which  said that, 
due to not reaching an acceptable arrangement in a suitable timeframe,  the 
agreement had been terminated.
So its clear that no agreement was reached about  the repayments  and Mr and 
Mrs B didnt make any payments to the Car Finance Company and the arrears on the 
account started to grow  from June 2017. But the Car Finance Company had fitted an 
immobiliser to the car before  it was supplied to Mr and Mrs B. And when they didnt  
make the monthly  payment that was due in June 2017 they werent sent the required 
PIN to deactivate  the immobiliser. And theyve been unable  to use the car since  then. 
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the arrears on the account arose as a 
result of the financial difficulties that Mr and Mrs B were experiencing. And Ive seen 
no evidence to show that the arrears  arose  for any reason other than those financial 
difficulties.
Ref: DRN15466722There were some service failings by the Car Finance Company. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs B have provided enough evidence to show that they 
could afford  to make the payments that were  required for them to keep the car  or to 
pay off the arrears under their agreement. And the car is depreciating in value. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they need  the car and want to keep it. But the evidence  
available to me shows that they cant afford to keep it. Nor am I persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr and Mrs B.
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for the Car 
Finance Company to treat the agreement  as if it was terminated in June  2017.  So I 
find that it should end the agreement, arrange for the car to be collected from Mr and 
Mrs B and ensure  that no adverse information  relating  to the agreement for the 
period after June 2017 is recorded on their credit  files. 
The Car Finance  Companys service failings will have  caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B. And I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
pay them  £150  to compensate them for that distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Mr and Mrs B or the Car Finance Company, my 
second provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold  this complaint in part.
Mr and Mrs B havent responded to my second provisional decision.  The Car Finance 
Company has asked for a breakdown and explanation of the compensation that its been  
asked to pay for Mr and Mrs Bs distress  and inconvenience as theres no evidence  that a 
voluntary termination  was affordable for them. And it says that, following a voluntary 
termination, Mr and Mrs B will be liable for make good  costs  to the car.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
My second  provisional  decision  was sent to Mr and Mrs B in December  2018  and the 
adjudicator sent an e-mail to them later that month asking  them  for any response to that 
decision  but no response has been  received  from them to either  the decision or the follow-
up e-mail.
In my first provisional decision, I said:
 Mr and Mrs B had paid more than half of the payments due under the agreement 
in July 2017 when they contacted the Car Finance  Company  about  their difficulties. 
A lender is required to respond positively and sympathetically to a customers 
financial difficulties. And I consider that it wouldve been reasonable in these 
circumstances to except  the Car Finance Company to have  discussed  all of the 
possible outcomes  with Mr and Mrs B. And one of those  outcomes was clearly a 
voluntarily termination  of the agreement.  But theres no evidence to show  that the 
Car Finance Company  mentioned voluntarily termination as a possibility until 
November 2017   and when it was mentioned  to them, Mr and Mrs B were only given 
one day to consider  it before being told that their account was being  defaulted  and 
Ref: DRN15466723their agreement would be terminated. I dont consider  that to have been  fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances.
I consider that those  events have caused  unnecessary distress  and inconvenience for 
Mr and Mrs B. And I consider £150  to be a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation in 
these circumstances  for that distress and inconvenience. If Mr and Mrs B accept my 
decision, theyll be required  to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions  of 
the hire purchase  agreement  and theyll be liable for any properly applied charges for their 
failure to do so.
my decision
So my decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. And I order  The Car 
Finance Company (2007) Limited to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr and 
Mrs B  both at no cost to them.
2.Ensure that no adverse  information  relating to agreement for the period after June 
2017 is recorded on their credit  files. 
3.Pay £150 to Mr and Mrs B to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience 
that theyve been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1546672