K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms Ss complaint is about the handling  of a claim under a central  heating  insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr and Ms S held the central heating  insurance  policy with British  Gas for a property they 
rent out. Mr and Ms S made a claim to British Gas in October 2018, as the boiler wasnt 
working properly.
British Gas said the boiler was losing pressure and this was being caused by a leak in the 
central heating pipework under a concrete floor. It added sealant  to the system but the boiler 
was still losing pressure.  British Gas found where the pipes came up from the floor and said 
they had not been  installed with suitable  protection against corrosion and had not been  laid 
according to industry  standards.  British Gas says the policy  excludes such  pre-existing 
faults. British Gas added more  sealant  to the system  but then told Mr and Ms S to go back  to 
the original installers  and said it could no longer provide cover  for the central  heating  system. 
Mr and Ms S are very unhappy with this. They say the policy provides cover for work  up to   
£1,500 to locate the leak.  Although  it has been  repaired  temporarily  this is not enough. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld, as he thought British Gas had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr and Ms S do not accept the investigators  assessment, so the matter has been 
passed to me. 
Mr and Ms S want a refund of all the premiums paid to British  Gas over three years, or 
£1,000 to pay for isolating the leaking pipes and rerouting them.  They have made  a number 
of points, which Ive summarised below:
British Gas inspected the property  before agreeing to provide the insurance cover  and 
so it is not reasonable for it to say, three years later, that they are not covered. A firm 
such as British  Gas, with experienced engineers, should be aware of the risks prior to 
accepting a contract.  The premium is based  on this inspection and so if British  Gas fails 
to inspect the property properly,  it is its error. 
Three different engineers assessed the issue and they had to wait for the senior 
engineer to get the temporary  temp fix. 
The investigator has taken the word  of British Gas over theirs, which  is prejudicial.
What proof do we have  from British Gas that the pipes are corroded?
The central heating system works  and has done so for seven months  without a fault, so 
clearly the pipes are not corroded. If there was a leak, there would be no pressure to run 
the central heating  system. British Gas is refusing to adhere to the agreed and legal 
binding terms  of its own written contract. 
Ref: DRN10494622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provided  by British Gas does require  an initial inspection  of the property and the 
central heating system,  before cover  can be confirmed.  However,  British  Gas is relying on 
the following  term from the policy which excludes cover for any faults or design faults that:
We couldnt  reasonably  have been expected to know  about  before. For example, faulty
pipes that dont have the correct protection, which are buried under concrete floors
This mean that while  British Gas might  have inspected  the remaining parts of the central 
heating system, it is obliged to cover  any pre-existing fault or a design fault which  has led to 
a claim,  if it cant have reasonably known about  it when  it agreed the cover.  
I do not consider  this to be inherently unfair. Insurance policies such as these are intended 
to cover future,  unforeseen events. While it is not Mr and Ms Ss fault the pipes were  
installed the way they were,  it does not mean that British Gas should be responsible  for 
rectifying an error which existed before it started  the cover. 
In order to rely on the exclusion, British Gas has to show, on the balance  of probabilities that 
the exclusion applies. In this case that means  it has to establish that it is more likely than not 
that the problem with the boiler has been caused by the installation  fault. 
British Gas says the loss of pressure is a result  of a leak somewhere in the buried pipework. 
I see no reason to doubt that. It may be a small leak, which  is why the central  heating  is still 
operating but when  enough water is lost from the system after a time, it causes a problem 
with the boiler.  British  Gas has also provided evidence from one of its engineers that he 
gained access to the pipes and could  see the pipes were not protected from corrosion. 
The leak has not been found, so there  is no absolute proof that this is the cause of the leak 
but British Gas only has to show that it is more likely than not that this is the cause. I am 
satisfied that it has done  so. It has provided  evidence that the pipes are vulnerable  to 
corrosion and corrosion  does cause leaks. Generally, corrosion would occur at a particular 
point, rather than an entire pipe. So I am not persuaded that the fact the system  is working,  
after the sealant was added, means  that there is not corrosion or that there is not a leak.  
British Gas has put a sealant into the system, which has apparently alleviated the problem, 
which would indicate  that it was correct  in its diagnosis. Its engineers notes  also record  that 
they checked the rest of the system and all the radiators and didnt find any leaks anywhere 
else.  The  permanent repair of the leak would be to reroute the pipes. For the reasons given 
above, I am not persuaded that British  Gass refusal  to cover the cost of this work is 
unreasonable.  I consider it has established that it is more likely than not, the leak was 
caused by the incorrect  installation of the pipes and it could not have been aware of this 
when it agreed to cover the property. 
Ref: DRN10494623my final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Ms Ss position,  I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Harriet McCarthy 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049462