K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  because  he feels the policy recommended  by Liverpool Victoria  Financial 
Services Limited (trading  as Liverpool  Victoria  Friendly Society)  LV  was unsuitable.
background
In October  2015 Mr M got in touch  with LV to discuss some protection  needs.  LV 
recommended he take out a Mortgage and Lifestyle Protection policy which  would provide a 
monthly benefit if he became unemployed or unable to work  as a result  of accident or 
sickness. Mr M accepted the policy terms and it went on risk in April 2016. 
In 2018 Mr M tried to amend the policy. He was told this wasnt possible as the plan had 
been withdrawn  from the market, so the benefits  could no longer be changed  other than 
under the Guaranteed  Increase Options terms.
Mr M complained to LV. He said hed entered into the policy understanding  it to be fully 
flexible and if hed known this wasnt the case he wouldnt have taken it out. LV explained 
what had taken place  before Mr M took out the policy  and said it hadnt known, at the point 
of sale, that the policy would  be withdrawn. As he was unable  to make  the changes  he 
wanted, Mr M cancelled the policy.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I didnt  think LV had mis-sold  the 
policy to Mr M. I said, in summary, that:
Given the circumstances Mr M described to the adviser about his personal situation  and 
any likely  benefits  he would receive from his employer, I didnt think  the policy was 
unsuitable. I was satisfied Mr Ms primary aim was to protect his mortgage,  so he could  
continue to repay it if he was unable to work  through accident, sickness  or injury. And the 
policy he selected, after spending  some time considering various  options,  did that. Mr M 
said the policy wasnt suitable because it didnt afford him the flexibility he wanted. But 
while hed asked  about the possibility  of changing his cover in the future I didnt think  the 
adviser thought  this was a real possibility.
I didnt think the adviser couldve foreseen that the policy  would be withdrawn from the 
market in 2017. And, in any event, there was no guarantee LV wouldve accepted  Mr Ms 
application to alter the policy  even  if his type of plan had not been withdrawn.
I thought Mr M was given sufficient  information  in order to make an informed  choice 
about the policy and wasnt misled about  any changes that could be made  in the future. 
He discussed  how the policy worked on more than one occasion with the adviser. Before 
agreeing to take it out he was sent paperwork that explained things in greater detail and 
the adviser stressed the importance of reading this. The Plan Conditions  explained the 
same things  that the adviser mentioned  that the cover could be increased without 
having to complete  a full application  form/provide further medical information if certain 
events happen.  And that would result in an increased premium.  Also that any changes   
such as the amount  of cover, deferred period or policy term  made outside of the 
guaranteed options  would be subject to a full application and werent  guaranteed.  
LV accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr M did not. He said, in summary, that:
Ref: DRN19145512He doesnt  think its right to say hed complained that the policy was unsuitable. His 
actual concern is that he wanted  flexible cover  to protect him until age 68 and thats  not 
what he was sold. His plan was always to increase the unemployment cover and 
decrease the accident and sickness at some point in the future. If hed been told the 
policy could not be amended in this way then he wouldnt have taken it out.
LV broke the contract by withdrawing  the policy from the market  as this prevented him 
from being able to make the changes he wanted. He shouldve  been warned about the 
withdrawal and would likely have  cancelled the policy  at that point.
Mr M also provided a letter hed received from LV after I issued my provisional decision. This 
said LV had reviewed  the advice he was given  to take out the policy  and it shouldve  done 
more to ensure  the cover  it afforded fitted with the benefits his employer wouldve paid. It 
said, if it had done so, he may well have taken  a policy with a six, rather  than three,  month 
waiting period which wouldve cost £2.83 less each month. LV offered to refund the amount 
Mr M had overpaid for the 36 months  hed held the policy, plus interest at 8% simple.
As the review overlapped with my consideration of the complaint Mr M had brought to us, I 
asked LV for its comments.  It said it still believed the policy was suitable, overall, for Mr Ms 
circumstances not least because hed told the adviser that he had no formal sick pay 
arrangements in place with his employer. But it stood by the offer thatd  already  been made.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I havent  changed  my 
mind and still think the policy was suitable,  given what the adviser knew about Mr Ms 
circumstances
I appreciate Mr M says now that he always intended  on increasing the unemployment cover 
and decreasing the accident and sickness at some  point in the future. And, as I said in my 
provisional decision, he did ask the adviser  certain questions about  whether the policy  
benefits could  be changed in the future. However, I remain  satisfied, given  everything  that 
was discussed,  that the adviser didnt  realise  this was something Mr M absolutely intended 
on doing so as to make unsuitable the advice he gave to take out this particular policy. 
I also remain satisfied the adviser and the literature Mr M was sent made clear there was no 
guarantee any changes he might  want to make would be accepted by LV. As I pointed out in 
my provisional decision, the Plan Conditions  said  with respect to changes requested 
outside the guaranteed  options  that Unfortunately, we cant  guarantee that youll  be able 
to do this as it will depend on your age, health and medical history,  leisure activities and 
whether were offering the same type of insurance at that time [my emphasis]. 
With the above in mind,  I dont agree with Mr M that LV broke  the terms of the contract.  
And, despite Mr Ms suggestions, I see no reason  to obtain any further evidence  from LV 
relating to the conversations that took place when he tried to amend the policy.
I also dont think that LVs recent review changes anything. As it pointed  out, the adviser 
asked Mr M specifically if he had any sick pay arrangements in place with his employer. And 
Mr M explained there were no formal  arrangements,  any payments made would be a gesture 
of goodwill  and likely to run out quite quickly. I took that into account  when  making my 
provisional decision and I remain  satisfied the advice was suitable for his circumstances. So 
Ref: DRN19145513I think LVs offer to refund part of Mr Ms premiums with interest is generous.  I understand 
the offer is still available and I leave it with Mr M to decide whether or not to accept.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1914551