K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2004  sometime after taking out a mortgage. From the 
documentation supplied  it appears they applied for the PPI policy through  the post. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs H for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £162.78 a month (split on an 
equal basis of 50% between  them)  towards  Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  balance (including an 
extra 25% for other mortgage related outgoings) in the event either of them made  a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £9.86 a month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as an admin officer. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay, a death in service  payment and redundancy pay. Mr H has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale but has told us about  conditions he 
suffered with a number  of years after taking the PPI. 
Mrs H was employed as a caretaker/cleaner. She has told us she was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying their mortgage should  she be unable 
to work. But I think its likely  she would  have at least been entitled to statutory sick pay and 
potentially statutory redundancy  pay. Mrs H has said she was in good health at the time of 
the sale but has told us about  a condition she suffered with over nine years later.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN16581932The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN16581933The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN16581934St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the PPI application  form which was completed in 2004. On this 
form there is information about who is to be covered, the monthly benefit and the premium to 
be paid. At the bottom of the form there  is a direct debit mandate  which  has been completed 
to authorise the deduction of the premium from their bank account. Mrs H has signed this 
mandate to confirm  she agreed with this instruction. As this form was separate  to the actual 
mortgage application, and appears to have been  set up some nine months  after the 
mortgage was agreed,  I think it would have been  clear this was a separate product, not 
conditional to the lending.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs H cant recall if they 
received advice or not. Looking at the application form I can see that the document refers to 
Mr and Mrs H sending the form off after signing it and, when taking this into consideration 
along with what  St Andrews says happened when it sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI, I dont  think 
its likely  that it did provide advice. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if they 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. And as mentioned previously, the PPI application form detailed the cost 
of the premium and the monthly benefit. It also set out that the maximum term of cover  was 
60 months.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN16581935In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrews  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs H. So Ive gone  on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policy,  had St Andrews done things 
properly. 
Mr and Mrs H say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of them being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs H thought  they were getting is not exactly  what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs H have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs H were given  about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
Ref: DRN16581936Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs H werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs H be 
unable to do their own job, any similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the maximum term of 
cover set out on the application form.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs H were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  they were in 
permanent employment  and I note the policy didnt place any restrictions  on claims for 
existing medical conditions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs H might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. Although I appreciate both Mr and Mrs H have both suffered with these  type of 
conditions many years after the sale, I need to consider what impact these specific 
limitations would have made to their choice if they were told about  them  when they were 
taking the policy out. And I think,  while these  limitations might  have dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs H from taking out the policy,  
Mr and Mrs H, in their circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do their 
job, any similar job or any paid work which, in the insurers  view,  their experience, education  
or training reasonably qualified them to do, it might have played into their thinking  about 
what they would have done.  And I accept it may have given them  pause  for thought   
although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned given  that if Mr and Mrs H 
were unable (through disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But 24 months was a longer period than Mr H would have received full sick pay for and his 
Ref: DRN16581937statutory redundancy entitlement was also likely  to be less than 12 months income.  And Mrs 
H only had limited means, in the form of statutory sick and redundancy pay, to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy could  help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and 
uncertain time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and might potentially  help preserve 
Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs H were  made redundant, or unable to work  through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs H would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr and Mrs H found  themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
Ref: DRN16581938out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
St Andrews  statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  
Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2004  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1658193