K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Ageas  Insurance Limited turned down part of a claim made 
under their home insurance  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs H made  a claim on their home insurance policy  after damage was caused to 
their house  during a storm in July 2018. Ageas agreed to cover most of the claim but didnt 
agree to pay for damage  to a flat roof above  the kitchen. 
Ageas investigated  the claim and instructed a surveyor to look at the damage. The surveyor  
concluded that winds from the storm highlighted  the poor pre-existing condition  of the roof. 
The surveyor thought  the damage  to the flat roof was caused by wear and tear.
Using this information  Ageas  turned  down  the claim saying the policy  excludes damage  
which happens due to wear, tear or depreciation. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this and 
thought the damage should be covered, so brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. She was satisfied  Ageas  acted  
reasonably when considering the findings of the report and saying the damage was caused 
by wear and tear. This meant the claim  wasnt covered as the wear  and tear exclusion 
applied. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr and Mrs H its clear  theres an issue with the roof, and this has 
caused a great deal of upset, and there was a cost to repair  it. But its also important to say 
that my role isnt to re-underwrite the claim, but to decide whether Ageas acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the policy terms to their claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy doesnt cover  loss or damage 
resulting from wear,  tear or depreciation. Ageas has relied upon  this exclusion when 
deciding not to pay the part of the claim for the flat roof.
When considering  claims  for storm damage  an insurer should investigate three things:
-were there storm conditions at the time?
-is the damage of a type consistent  with that caused by a storm?
-was the storm the main cause of the damage?
All parties  agree, as do I, that on the day of the damage there  were  storm conditions. This 
means there  is an insured event under the policy.
To answer  the second  and third questions Ageas instructed a surveyors  report  on the flat 
roof. 
Ref: DRN19670282It wasnt possible for the surveyor to inspect  the actual damage as repairs  had already been 
done to make the roof watertight. When the damage happened Mr and Mrs H were  going on 
holiday so had the roof repaired as soon as possible whilst they were  away.  This is 
understandable, but it meant  that for some aspects of the report the surveyor had to rely on 
photos of the roof from prior to the inspection. Whilst not ideal, its reasonable for the 
surveyor to do so.
The surveyors report said the mortar pointing holding the old felt flashing  in place was 
suffering from wear and tear due to age related breakdown. They  also looked at the photos 
saying they showed clear  signs of gradual  wear  and tear to the roof, and that mortar  point  
was coming out in places. Overall the surveyor thought the damage was due to wear and 
tear and not damage from the storm.
Ageas applied the policy terms to the claim. They said because  of the issues highlighted by 
the surveyor the damage to the roof wasnt consistent with a storm. Ageas said the damage 
was a result  of general wear and tear which is excluded under the policy. 
Ive looked at the surveyors  report, the photos and the notes of the investigation.  Having 
done so Im satisfied  Ageas considered the expert  evidence in a reasonable way. Thats not 
to say there  wasnt a problem with the roof; there was. But Ageas  looked at what  the expert 
report had to say about the damage  to the roof and applied an exclusion under the policy. 
Im happy  this is a fair way of investigating  a claim and that Ageas  acted  reasonably on the 
evidence provided.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  Ageas applied the policy  terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020. 
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1967028