K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Miss C says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss C says she doesnt think she wouldve requested the PPI. Capital One says the PPI 
was sold during a telephone call in which Miss C activated  her credit card. Due to the 
time thats elapsed,  theres no longer a recording of the telephone call available.  Ive 
seen a copy of the call script that wouldve been  in use at the time. In this, the 
representative wouldve had to explain the product to Miss C then gain her explicit 
consent before adding  it to the credit  card. 
I appreciate Miss C says she wouldnt have  agreed  to take out the PPI. Where  theres  a 
disagreement over what  happened, I have to consider  everything  available to consider  
what I think is most likely  in the circumstances. I havent seen  anything  compelling that 
makes me think the call script wasnt followed as per Capital Ones  normal  procedure.  
While its possible  Capital One added  the PPI to Miss Cs card without her permission, I 
dont think its the more likely scenario.  Instead, in the absence  of anything showing 
otherwise, I think its more likely Capital One followed its normal  procedure  and gained 
Miss Cs consent before  applying PPI to the account. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Miss C is unsure what sick pay she had the time but thinks it was under three months.  
The PPI policy couldve covered her for up to twelve months per claim if she was too ill to 
work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been in addition  to her 
sick pay. So I think she couldve  found  it useful. And I dont think  better  information  about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:  
Ref: DRN15881042Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell  
Miss C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I understand Miss C entered into an informal  debt arrangement previously. Capital One paid 
the above directly  to the insolvency practitioner. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1588104