K820x#14complaint
Mr B, who is represented by his wife, Mrs B, complains that Amigo  Loans Ltd overcharged 
interest on his guarantor loan.
background
Mr B took out the loan on 16 April 2013.  It was repayable over five years and the interest 
was calculated daily. The first payment was due one month later,  but he asked to defer  the 
payment date. Amigo wrote to him to say that deferring payment would increase the amount 
of interest due. Looking  at the statements it seems the first payment was made on time, but 
later payments were  either deferred  or missed.  This meant that the interest  due increased 
and so the loan wasnt cleared in five years.
Mr B complained and said that he signed  up for a five year loan. Amigo said that the loan 
agreement showed  that in calculating  the interest  payable it stated that weve assumed that: 
- You and we keep  to this Agreement (e.g. you make all payments on time); and (...) You 
make your first payment one month after the loan is paid out and monthly on the same date 
of each month after that.
It said that over the course of the loan there were occasions where Mr B made late 
payments and moved his final repayment date further away.  As the balance did not reduce 
in line with the original calculations, this caused additional interest  to accrue against  the 
higher balance, and changed the date the loan was due to be settled.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr B said he had not been  told that moving 
his payment date or paying late would  affect the original  calculations ad extend  the loan term 
and the amount to be repaid. He said the loan agreement  didnt  say the term and sum 
repayable were estimated. 
The adjudicator referred  to the loan agreement which states that:
To calculate the APR,  the total interest  and the total amount you will pay we've assumed  
that
- You and we keep  to this Agreement (e g you make  all payments on time), and
- The interest rate (which could change under the Terms and Conditions) will remain the 
same for the length of the loan
- You make  your first payment one month after the loan is paid out and monthly on the same  
date of each month after that
He said this showed that the interest  and repayments werent fixed.  The terms and 
conditions of the agreement explains that Amigo Loans calculates  the interest every  day 
based on the debt and that interest  will be added to amount owed each month  on the 
payment date.
He also referenced various emails exchanged between Mr B and Amigo.  These showed that 
Mr B was aware that deferring payment would increase his interest payable. It also showed 
that Amigo had told him of the impact of late payments. For example when it responded to 
an email in which Mr B said he was in arrears  due to unforeseen circumstances it said we 
Ref: DRN11132382want to prevent the account falling behind as this can affect  the interest added to your loan 
which may mean that it would take you longer to repay.
He concluded  that Mr B had missed payments and made some late and so this caused the 
total amount of interest  due to increase and so the term was extended.  As a result he didnt 
think Amigo had done anything wrong.
Mrs B didnt agree on her husbands  behalf  and said that there was nothing on the loan 
documentation which  showed the term or amount repayable were estimated. Her husband 
had signed for fixed term and his repayments  should  have stopped  after 60 months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B agreed to number  of conditions including making repayments on time. He signed to say 
that if he so failed he would be breaking  the agreement he made with Amigo.  Mr B didnt 
fulfil his part of the bargain  by making  all his payments on time and it was open  to Amigo to 
make suitable action to collect  the debt including defaulting the loan. It didnt do this and 
accepted late payments.  But this means that Mr B has incurred additional interest.  
As Mrs B says the loan document sets out the sum borrowed and the term along with the 
monthly repayments. However,  these figures  are based on Mr B not breaking the 
agreement. This is made clear in the agreement which states:
To calculate the APR,  the total interest  and the total amount you will pay we've assumed  
that 
- You and we keep  to this Agreement (e g you make  all payments on time), and - The 
interest rate (which could change under the Terms and Conditions)  will remain  the same for 
the length of the loan
- You make  your first payment one month after the loan is paid out and monthly on the same  
date of each month after that.
Amigo is not bound by the figures  it quoted given Mr B broke the terms and conditions  by not 
making all his payments  as agreed. As the adjudicator has explained Amigo  calculates  
interest on a daily basis  and if a payment is not made or is paid late this increases the 
amount of interest  payable on the loan.  I cannot see that Amigo  has done anything  wrong so 
I am unable  to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
9 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113238