K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Close Brothers  Limited supplied  a car via a conditional sale agreement  
but refused to allow him to reject  it after it developed  faults which he says means the car is 
not of satisfactory  quality.  
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 19 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what Close Brothers should do to put things right. I invited both parties to send any 
additional evidence  or comments they wished to make.  
Mr D responded and provided  evidence of a SORN insurance policy he paid for when he 
took the car off the road. Hed like Close Brothers  to cover the cost of that policy. 
Close Brothers told us it didnt receive  the provisional decision and another copy  was sent 
along with details of the SORN insurance policy. Close Brothers then confirmed it had 
nothing further  to add other than to say it would cover the Mr Ds expenditure for the SORN 
insurance policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision Mr D sent in evidence of a SORN insurance policy hes 
paid for and asked  for it to be included in his costs. The investigator forwarded details of the 
SORN insurance policy to Close Brothers  and it confirmed it had no concerns considering  
the additional expenditure Mr D has had. As a result, I will include the cost of the SORN 
insurance policy in addition to the other  elements of the settlement set out in my provisional 
decision. 
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I am upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN16106162my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Close  Brothers Limited to:
-End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
-Refund any deposit paid by Mr D, which appears  to be £100,  and pay 8% simple  
interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
-Refund the £39 administration fee and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
-Refund repayments to Mr D from the date he registered his vehicle as SORN  and 
pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
-Pay Mr D the cost of the SORN insurance policy.
-Remove all details  of the agreement from Mr Ds credit file.
-Pay £89.94  for the third party report and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
-Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision  dated 19 March 2019
complaint
Ref: DRN16106163Mr D complains that Close  Brothers Limited  supplied  a car via a conditional  sale agreement  but 
refused to allow him to reject it after it developed  faults which he says means  the car is not of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Close Brothers supplied a car to Mr D via conditional  sale agreement in April 2018. The car was 
nine years old and had 67,000 miles.
Around two weeks later Mr D took the car back to the dealer as he said it was using up oil and 
coolant too quickly and wasnt working reliably. The dealer arranged for the rocker cover gasket and 
timing chain to be replaced.
Mr D says the problem continued and on 12 July 2018 an inspection  was completed which  
identified excessive oil consumption as well as other significant problems  with the car.
Close Brothers went on to arrange another inspection  which was completed on 
30 July 2018 but didnt find any significant faults. The report  Close Brothers instructed said it wasnt 
possible to check long term oil consumption during the inspection.  The inspection noted some blue 
smoke when the car was idling but found that was in line with its age and condition.
Mr D complained and Close Brothers responded on 8 August 2018 but didnt  agree there was a 
fault with the engine at the point of sale.  Close  Brothers said the independent report advised any 
burning oil was likely down to normal wear and offered to refund one monthly instalment as a 
gesture of goodwill.
As the problem  persisted Mr D obtained another inspection, which was completed on
17 September 2018 and noted various problems with the car. The report  highlighted that the
engine oil level was low but didnt find any evidence  of leaks.
Mr D asked this service to look into his complaint and it was passed to an investigator. The
investigator thought the reports Mr D had obtained showed the fault relating to the way the car 
consumed oil had most likely been  present  when it was sold to him. Mr D has registered the vehicle  
as SORN  and isnt using  it due to concerns  over its reliability. The investigator recommended  Close 
Brothers should:
-End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
-Refund the deposit  (if applicable) and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
-Refund a months repayment back to Mr D due to being unable to use the vehicle while  
SORN.
-Remove any adverse information from the customers credit file.
-Pay £89.94 for the third party report.
-Pay £300  for the trouble and upset caused and to cover Mr Ds increased  transport  costs 
while his cars  been SORN.
Close Brothers didnt agree and said the original repairs carried out by the dealer hadnt failed, the 
third party report didnt show where  the oil and coolant leak was coming from and the majority of 
faults listed  werent  included in Mr Ds complaint. As Close Brothers didnt agree the complaints 
been passed  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16106164The finance  agreement here is a regulated conditional sale agreement which  means  this service 
can consider  complaints about it. Mr D can bring  his complaint about  the quality  of the car he 
bought to Close Brothers as its the supplier under this type of agreement.
I have to decide Mr Ds complaint based on whats fair and reasonable  and to do that I have to take 
account of the relevant law. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says under a conditional sale agreement 
theres an implied term that the goods supplied will be of a satisfactory  quality. In Mr Ds case, the 
car he acquired was used  and had driven  around 67,000 miles, but the law says he should still have  
reasonably expected that its condition  was satisfactory.
And thats the main  focus  of Mr Ds complaint.  He says the car wasnt of a satisfactory  quality when 
supplied because it quickly showed signs of unusually high levels of oil consumption and was 
unreliable. As a result  of the problems  Mr Ds experienced, three inspections  have been done.  But I 
think its also important to note that before any inspections were  completed Mr D took the car back  
to the dealer  because  of the excessive oil consumption and they replaced the rocker cover  gasket 
and timing chain to try and fix it.
Despite taking  this step, the problems continued. In this case three independent inspections have 
been completed, only one of which suggests the car was of satisfactory  quality. In cases  where  I 
receive information  thats unclear or contradictory Ill base  my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened  in light of the evidence supplied 
and the circumstances of the complaint.
The first inspection of 12 July 2018 lists various issues but clearly shows there was an
unusually large amount of oil being consumed by the engine with 1.5l being  used in around
21 miles. The report  also noted blue smoke coming  from the exhaust.
Close Brothers instructed another inspection  which was done on 30 July 2018.  This inspection 
didnt highlight  excessive  engine wear and whilst it did note some  blue smoke it said that was in line 
with standard wear and tear for a vehicle of that age. But the inspection specifically noted that it 
wasnt possible to check the long term oil consumption so I wouldnt have expected it to have found  
evidence of the fault Mr D reported. 
Close Brothers went on to reject Mr Ds complaint  on the basis of information  contained  within this 
inspection report.
Mr D then arranged a third inspection by an independent garage. The inspection report  said the oil 
level in the engine was very low and that there werent  any signs of coolant or oil leaks. The report 
advises further investigation  to see whether oil and coolant is being  burnt internally by the engine.
I understand  that the second report didnt find any faults with the vehicle but I think the fact that 
two other independent inspections highlighted  concerns about the level of oil in the engine and 
rate of consumption is important. I also note that the report obtained by
Close Brothers said it wouldnt have found evidence of long term oil consumption. That means weve 
got two inspections  that indicate there was a fault in relation to oil consumption and one that says the 
limitations of the inspection meant  it wasnt possible to say. From  what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that its 
more likely  than not that the car Mr D bought did have an existing fault at the point  of sale which 
meant it was consuming more oil than it should have and was not of a satisfactory  quality.
In its response to the investigator, Close  Brothers said it didnt accept because  the original repairs 
the dealer had arranged hadnt failed. Whilst that may be the case, the point here is that even 
though the original repairs didnt fail they also didnt  resolve the problems  Mr D reported.
I can see that the third report has highlighted  several  issues that werent previously  reported by Mr 
D or shown in the other inspections.  Id like to make clear to all parties  that Im focusing on the initial 
problems Mr D had with the car in relation to its oil and coolant consumption  and reliability.
Ref: DRN16106165After the investigators  initial recommendations  Mr D said hed had to pay additional  transport  costs 
as he wasnt able to use his car. Mr D registered the car as SORN as he says it isnt driveable so 
hasnt had the benefit  of using  it while  this disputes been ongoing. As a result,  the investigator 
asked Close Brothers to increase the settlement in a follow up email. From what Ive seen I think 
its more likely  than not that Mr Ds car wasnt sufficiently reliable for it to be driven so I think  its fair 
that Close  Brothers  refunds  any payments Mr D made after the date it was registered  as SORN.
But once  the vehicle was SORN and no longer  being driven there were  no running costs. Mr D 
would always have had transportation costs so Im not telling Close  Brothers to pay additional 
compensation to cover  the transport  costs  he paid once he stopped using the car.
That being said, Im satisfied Mr D experienced distress and inconvenience because  of what  
happened. Hes been unable to use a car that was acquired for commuting purposes.  In addition,  Mr 
D had a reasonable expectation that the vehicle  he was supplied with would be reliable but that 
hasnt been the case which is clearly  disappointing.  Ive thought carefully  about the level of 
compensation to award here. And I think £200 fairly reflects the impact of the problems on Mr D 
without taking  into account the additional travel costs he paid.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality when  it 
was supplied to Mr D. Given the dealer  has already unsuccessfully attempted to repair the car I 
agree with the investigators view that its fair and reasonable that Mr D be allowed to reject the 
car.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Close  Brothers Limited to do the 
following:
-End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
-Refund any deposit  paid by Mr D, which  appears to be £100, and pay 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
-Refund the £39 administration  fee and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
-Refund repayments to Mr D from the date he registered  his vehicle as SORN and pay 
8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
-Remove all details  of the agreement from Mr Ds credit file.
-Pay £89.94 for the third party report and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
-Pay £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D.
Mr D and Close Brothers Limited have until 19 April 2019  to send me anything further theyd like me 
to consider before I make a final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1610616