K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms G complain  that theyve received poor service from AA Underwriting Insurance  
Company Limited  (AA) since  reporting  a problem with damp and associated mould in their 
home. Mr C and Ms G are represented by a relative,  Miss G.
background
In late March 2017 Mr C and Ms G noted problems with damp and mould in their home, in a 
wall next to the property adjoining  theirs, which  was unoccupied.
They approached AA, which appointed a representative Ill call T to handle  the claim.  T 
appointed both a company to deal with drying out the property  and a second company that 
specialises in finding out where leaks etc might come from.
This company said there were no leaks in Mr C and Ms Gs property   but that as 
Mr C and Ms G told it there had been  a major leak next door the year before, it thought that 
property should  be checked. It also noted  that the two houses shared a common  mains 
water pipe which ran under the house next door before entering Mr C and Ms Gs property. It 
said the tests it carried  out suggested  a leak in the house next door which was causing  
damage to Mr C and Ms Gs home.
There was a joint meeting  on site between the company responsible for repairing that house 
and Ts representative. During this meeting Ts representative reported  another leak. That 
turned out to be something unconnected and Mr C and Ms G dealt with this themselves.
The repairs  to the original damage  were  carried out. A few months later similar damage re-
occurring in the same place. T agreed  to look at the problem again.
After some time a specialist surveyor went to the house and concluded the problem was dry 
rot. He said there werent any leaks  but the space  under the floor didnt appear  to have 
working ventilation,  which was causing  condensation and subsequent  dry rot. He said the rot 
had destroyed  most of the remedial work T had carried out a few months earlier. T wrote  to 
Mr C and Ms G to say that this wasnt something their policy covered, so it wouldnt do any 
more work.
Mr C and Ms G complained, saying it was unacceptable that it had taken so long to get to 
this point and theyd been left with major disruption  to their home because of the poor repairs 
Ts contractors had carried out. They also couldnt understand why they would be charged 
an excess of £500 in the first place when it was clear the fault wasnt  theirs.
T didnt offer to more than it already had, so Mr C and Ms G brought  their complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought T had acted reasonably. He said (in summary) that T had carried 
out investigations and repaired damage  caused by a leak, and that given there  were  two 
properties involved a delay couldnt be helped.
Mr C and Ms G responded  to say they dont think this is fair. They  said there  was never a 
leak next door and that if T had found  the cause of the problem when it should have theyd 
have known they werent covered by their insurance and been able to repair  their home  a 
long time ago. They think T should re-do the poor work originally carried out and refund their 
excess of £500.
Ref: DRN13115932Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. Im also not going to comment on 
every point or event  during the progress of this claim, although I have considered  all the 
evidence provided.  Instead Im going to concentrate on what  I think  are the main  issues.
Terms and conditions
No insurance covers everything that might  happen to a property, so Ive looked  at the terms 
and conditions in Mr C and Ms Gs policy to see what AA had agreed to cover.  In summary, 
these say that:
AA will pay for damage caused  by an escape  of water except for the first £500. 
Thats made up of a standard £250 and an extra £250 Mr C and Ms G agreed to pay 
when they bought  the policy. This is the figure commonly called an excess  which  
T collected on the AAs behalf. 
The policy also provides up to £5,000 towards the cost of finding  the source of a leak 
and repairing any damage caused during that process.
The policy does not cover any damage that occurs gradually. Mr C and Ms G didnt 
buy cover  for accidental damage  which might have  paid for such  damage that built 
up without them being aware of it.
The claim
I think its important to point out that Mr C and Ms Gs insurance  doesnt cover the cost of 
any repairs  so it wouldnt pay for fixing a leaking pipe. But it does cover the cost of finding 
the source of the problem and for any damage caused  during that process.
From reading the file, it seems to me that Ts contractors looked  for a source of damp and 
mould  and found one. The early reports suggest either  a leak under the kitchen floor of the 
house next door and/or a faulty stopcock  which seems to be jointly  owned  (or at least its 
on joint pipework bringing mains water into both houses from one feed).
Mr C and Ms G told AA the leak next door had been fixed  and Ts contractor replaced 
damaged flooring and joists etc. That seems  appropriate to me.
When Mr C and Ms G said the problem was re-occurring, T agreed to look at it again. Thats  
the correct thing for it to do. This time they discovered another problem  one caused by, it 
seems, the way the floor is ventilated underneath. That would allow  the dry rot to build up 
gradually, and explains  why the first repairs failed.
Unfortunately for Mr C and Ms G they dont  have cover for this type of problem,  and have 
accepted that AA wont meet the cost of the repairs. 
Ref: DRN13115933They make several points:
a)Mr C and Ms G say T should have found that out about  the dry rot when it first looked  
at the property. Instead theyve been  left in a poorly repaired house  with potential 
harmful effects to their health. I do appreciate  that point of view.  But I also think  that, 
having found a cause  for the problem (ie the leak or leaks),  it was reasonable for T to 
repair that. I wouldnt expect it to look for a secondary cause at this point.
b)Its unfair to charge  them  an excess for something they werent responsible  for. That 
seems to be based on Mr C and Ms Gs belief  that the damage came from a problem  
next door. But AA arranged  to trace the source of the problem and for the damage to 
be repaired, which is the cover provided  by the policy. So the source  of the problem 
isnt the main factor here  its finding  the source and repairing the damage  that 
triggers the excess. 
c)I have also thought about  whether the excess was fair if Ts contractors didnt find the 
true cause of the problem. And of course, when it was discovered,  it wasnt 
something Mr C and Ms G had cover for. But I think its fair for AA to rely on what it 
was told by its professional advisers.  That was there was evidence of a leak or leaks, 
the damage from which was covered by the policy, and so charging the excess was 
fair. 
d)Mr C and Ms G were  left with disruption  and poor repairs, which  is why they now 
have to be re-done. I understand Ms C and Ms Gs feelings about this. But I cant  say 
Ts contractors  carried out poor repairs  if the problem had been a leak, then it 
seems to me that, once this was fixed (which is Mr C and Ms Gs responsibility  as I 
said above), then the repairs  would have lasted. I do accept that they now have to 
have more work done, but I dont think thats  AAs fault.
e)Mr C and Ms G are worried that they were left in a house that might not be good for 
their health  although they havent said theyd  suffered any ill effects.  But, as I said 
above, I think it was fair for AA to fix what it was advised was the likely  source  of the 
problem, so I dont  think it knowingly left Mr C and Ms G in a hazardous position, 
health-wise.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311593