K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mr R complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a mortgage  in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs B and Mr R disagreed  with 
that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive considered all of the evidence before me, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
Mrs B and Mr R told us that PPI was sold to them during a meeting with Santander. I cant  
know what was discussed during  that meeting. So to help me decide whats  likely  to have 
happened, Ive thought about what Mrs B and Mr R told us about  it. And Ive looked at the 
written information provided by Santander. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs B and Mr R would have  known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Mrs B and Mr R are adamant  
that the PPI was added  without their knowledge  and they didnt know they had a policy  until 
recently. 
I dont doubt that what  Mrs B and Mr R told us is what they honestly remember  about the 
way PPI was sold to them. But I also have to bear in mind that its difficult  to remember  
precisely what happened over 15 years  ago, which is when this policy was sold.  And 
ultimately, I cant say that what Mrs B and Mr R remembered about the sale is accurate. 
I say this because  the premiums for their PPI policy would  have been  taken as a separate  
direct debit to their mortgage. So the amounts of the PPI would have appeared as a different  
transaction on their bank  statements. I think that if Mrs B and Mr R were unaware of the PPI 
policy, they would have queried  these  payments at the time.  Additionally  (and I know 
Mrs B and Mr R now no longer remember) I can see that the PPI was cancelled by 
telephone in 2005. And the insurer  spoke  to Mr R and then Mrs B at that time. If they were  
unaware of the PPI until recently, they wouldnt have known  to cancel it in 2005. 
I can also see that the cover was set up to cover Mr R in the event of accident  or sickness 
only. As that cover isnt standard, I think it shows there was a discussion between the parties 
about what kind of cover Mrs B and Mr R wanted.
It is understandable  that Mrs B and Mr R dont remember  these details from such  a long time 
ago. But it follows that I think they probably did know theyd bought a PPI policy at the 
relevant time. 
Ref: DRN13236572I think Santander probably advised Mrs B and Mr R to take this policy  out. So it had to make 
sure it was suitable for them.  To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at the 
terms and conditions of that policy. And Ive looked at what  Mrs B and Mr R told us about  
their personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that the policy was set up to cover Mr R only. And I think that was right because 
Mrs B wasnt  in work at that particular time. So if Mr R had to make  a claim on the policy,  I 
can see that the mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months  if he 
couldnt work because he was injured  or unwell.  
Mrs B and Mr R told us that Mr B wouldnt  have  received any sick pay from his employer if 
he couldnt work. The evidence Ive seen  doesnt  suggest they had any other means  of 
repaying their mortgage if Mr R wasnt able to work.  And the mortgage was secured  on their 
home, which would have been  significantly at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. 
So I think the policy offered benefits  over and above the means they already had in place at 
what would  have no doubt been  a very stressful time if Mr R became unwell. 
Mr R appears  to have been  in good health  when  this PPI was taken out, so I dont think  hed 
have been affected by any of the exclusions about  medical conditions.  I appreciate  Mr R 
became self-employed at a later date. But when this policy was taken out, he was an 
employee and I havent  seen  anything  unusual about his employment circumstances that 
would have stopped him from making  a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I think the cover  probably  was suitable for their needs.
Santander still had to give Mrs B and Mr R enough  information about the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good  fit for their needs. That information had to be 
fair, clear and not misleading. I accept  its possible  that Santander didnt tell Mrs B and Mr R 
everything it should have done  about the PPI. But I dont think  more or better information 
about the cover would have put them off buying it. Ive set out above  how the policy could  
have been helpful to them if Mr R couldnt work.  And although I appreciate  they dont now 
recall, I think they probably chose  to buy PPI at the time. 
I appreciate that Mrs B and Mr R feel strongly that PPI was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint  
them, but for the reasons  set out above,  I havent upheld this complaint. And so I dont need 
to tell Santander to take any further action.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.  
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1323657