K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background
In 2002, Halifax  sold Mr and Mrs S a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect  their joint 
mortgage repayments if either of them was unable to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. It was sold as part of a package  called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP). The policy was replaced  by another one later in 2002, I gather for administrative 
reasons, and Ive considered both policies  as part of my assessment.
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as critical illness 
cover, which  could be included in the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 2002,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached  my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence, together  with experience of Halifaxs sales  processes at the time.  Ive carefully 
considered Mr and Mrs S arguments about  being  pressured into buying the PPI. And Ive no 
doubt Halifax strongly encouraged them to take it. But Ive seen nothing to support what 
theyve said about  Halifax putting  them under pressure to do so. 
And, while theres nothing  to conclusively  show Mr and Mrs S agreed to the PPI, from whats  
known of Halifaxs sales processes back then, I dont think  its likely that it would have added 
this cover without getting their agreement to take it.
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. That meant Halifax needed  to take 
steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps  it took, I think  the PPI 
it recommended was right for them in any case.  
For example, from what Mr and Mrs S have told us about their circumstances, they were 
eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or 
limited cover  for. I cant see that Mr and Mrs S would have found the monthly  premiums  
unaffordable either.
It seems  as though Mr and Mrs S were entitled to relatively generous sick pay from their 
respective employers. But the PPI benefits were  considerable and potentially  paid out for up 
to 24 months for each  successful disability and unemployment claim. Theyve also told us 
Ref: DRN14700882they had savings they could have used if needed,  although the PPI meant  they could have 
retained them or used  them to cover  their other living costs if either of them wasnt working.
Taking into account that Mr and Mrs S had entered into a long-term  financial commitment  
that was secured against their home, I think theyd have valued the additional protection  the 
PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs S enough information about the PPI to allow  them to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information it gave 
them could have  been better  than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI 
was unsuitable  for them,  I dont think that better information would have changed their 
decision to take it. I think  they would still have  thought it provided a useful benefit  at an 
affordable cost.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs S now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1470088