K821x#15complaint
Mr G complained about delays by Target  Servicing  Limited when he wanted  to pay off part of 
his Help to Buy mortgage.
background
Mr G bought his property  in 2016. He paid £380,000  for it, using  a £284,000 mortgage and 
£76,000 as an equity loan from a Help to Buy scheme. So the equity loan was 20% of the 
purchase price.
In 2018, Mr G wanted to pay off half of his Help to Buy loan, using a remortgage  from 
another lender. The value of his property at that point was £370,000, so the 10% he wanted 
to pay off would be £37,000.
Mr G provided a signed request and his solicitors details on 9 May 2018. He paid Targets  
admin fee of £200 on 29 May.
As part of the process:
- Mr Gs solicitor needed a redemption quote from Target to say how much it would 
cost to pay off the 10% equity;
- Mr Gs new lender  needed Target to complete a Deed of Postponement.  That was 
to agree to the lender having  the first charge over Mr Gs property; and
- Mr Gs solicitor needed Target  to send an Authority to Complete form.
Over the coming  months, Target caused  delays  and made administrative mistakes affecting 
these and other issues. Mr G, his solicitors,  and brokers, all chased Target many times.
For example, Target: 
- didnt send  redemption figures until the solicitor  chased, and then sent figures for a 
full redemption instead of the 10% Mr G wanted;
- took around 15 weeks to complete the Deed of Postponement;
- sent two incorrect  Authority to Complete  forms before the correct one on 1 October;
- didnt promptly upload the copy of Mr Gs previous mortgage offer. 
As a result, Mr G wasnt able to complete until 16 October. He complained.
Target initially offered  Mr G £50 compensation, which he refused. In its letter  of 31 October, 
Target accepted that it had caused delays  and had made administrative oversights. It sent 
Mr G a cheque  for £400.
Mr G wasnt  satisfied. He told Target  that his financial losses had exceeded  £2,000, as well 
as the upset and time hed had to spend.  He contacted this service.
The investigator upheld  Mr Gs complaint. She noted Targets  errors,  and the fact that Mr G, 
his solicitors and broker  had had to contact Target  many times. She also considered  the 
financial losses which Mr G had said hed incurred.  She didnt consider Target had to pay for 
costs which  Mr G would have had to pay even if there hadnt been  delays  such as the 
admin fee and valuation  fee. But the investigator accepted  that Mr G had had to pay more on 
his existing mortgage because of the delays.  She calculated Mr Gs loss as £900.55 for 
these extra mortgage  payments. And she considered that £400 was a fair and reasonable 
figure for compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN19185282Mr G replied that while  he thought  Targets level of service and behaviour  had been very 
unprofessional, he would  accept the investigators  view. He asked us to note that hed 
returned both the £50 and £400 cheques which Target had sent him.
But Target refused to agree, and asked for an ombudsman decision. It said that the £400 it 
had offered had consisted of £315  of admin  fees and £85 compensation. Target also said 
that Mr G hadnt returned the £400  cheque. It said the most it was prepared to offer was a 
further £615.55 in addition  to the £400  which it said Mr G had already had.
my provisional findings
I issued two provisional decisions on this case. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my first provisional  decision  on 20 August 2019. It was clear that Target  failed to 
provide a good service to Mr G. There were multiple mistakes, which  Ive set out above, and 
also multiple delays.  Mr G, his solicitor and his broker all had to chase Target many times. 
As a result, Mr G suffered  frustration,  inconvenience, and upset, as well as financial loss. So 
I found that Target should pay Mr G compensation for financial  loss, and also for the distress  
and inconvenience  which it caused him.
financial loss
Mr G told us he lost over £2,000 as a result  of Targets errors, which hed itemised. I looked 
carefully at Mr Gs list.
Quite a few of the items and costs which Mr G would have had to pay anyway, if the process  
had gone as it should have done. This included the fee Mr G paid his broker  and his solicitor,  
the valuation fee, legal fee for the Deed of Postponement,  redemption  fee and money 
transfer fee. So I didnt consider Target  should refund these.
Mr G also asked for a refund for Targets admin fee of £200, which he said he didnt think 
Target was entitled to because its admin  service was substandard. I agreed that Targets 
admin was substandard. But it did eventually  do the work, so it did incur the staff and 
administrative costs which the fee was intended  to pay for. The poor service was 
compensated for in the payment for distress  and inconvenience which I also considered.
Mr G also said that Targets  fee for completing  the Deed of Postponement  hadnt been listed  
on the documentation or agreement which hed originally accepted. I looked  at the 
documentation. The exact amount wasnt specified,  but section 8.4 of Mr Gs agreement,  
which related to paying off part of the loan, said that the borrower may pay the specified 
proportion... of the market value together  with any reasonable costs and expenses  incurred 
by the lender. I considered that Target could reasonably say that it incurred a cost for its 
staff completing the Deed  of Postponement. I accepted that it wasnt initially  done properly, 
but as with the admin fee, Target did eventually do the work, so it did incur  the staff and 
administrative costs which the fee was intended  to pay for. The poor service was 
compensated for in the payment for distress  and inconvenience which I considered 
separately.
I went on to consider whether  or not Mr G suffered financial loss in regard to his mortgage  
payments, as a result  of Targets poor service. It was true that Mr Gs mortgage payments 
Ref: DRN19185283did rise over this period. The relevant statement showed he paid £1051.99 every month up 
to June 2018, increasing to £1,339.31  for July and August and £1,377 for September.  It 
appeared, from the statement which Mr G supplied, that this increase was due to his fixed 
interest rate product  ending and his lender moving the mortgage to its standard  variable rate 
(SVR). But what I had to consider is whether Targets failings caused  this increase.
If Mr G was increasing the borrowing on his mortgage to fund what he was paying off his 
Help to Buy loan,  his lender would have done  this as a further  advance. Lenders dont add 
further borrowing  to a main loan, but set it up as a separate account, or a sub-account of the 
main mortgage. As such, it would have had its own mortgage product, even if Mr G had 
applied for the same product on any further  advance as he had on his main mortgage. So, if 
Mr Gs existing mortgage product expired in June  or July, there  was no reason why Targets  
delays would have  prevented him from taking out a new deal for his existing mortgage.
So I said that it wasnt open to me to make an award  for Mr Gs increased mortgage 
payments, unless he could provide evidence from his lender that he couldnt arrange  a new 
deal for the original advance before the further advance went through.  I thought  this was 
unlikely, but I said that if it were  the case,  Mr G should provide such evidence by the date for 
responses to the provisional  decision.
distress and inconvenience
Mr G suffered frustration,  inconvenience, and upset as a result of Targets  errors and delays. 
I looked at the chronology  and the number  of times that Mr G had to chase Target.
Target had offered Mr G further £615.55  in addition to the £400  which  it said Mr G had 
already had. In the circumstances, I wouldnt ask Target to do more.
I noted that although it was agreed  that Mr G returned Targets  initial  £50 cheque, there was 
disagreement about what happened to Targets £400 cheque.  Mr G said he returned it, as 
he did with the £50 cheque. Target  said it had no evidence that Mr G had returned  it. So I 
said that Target should check  through its accounts  not just its records  of mail received on 
Mr Gs account  to establish  whether  or not the cheque had been cashed to an account in 
Mr Gs name. If the cheque hadnt been  cashed,  Target should  put a stop on it and reissue 
the payment to Mr G, together with the £615.55  it offered in response to our investigators 
view.
responses to my first provisional  decision
Mr G provided clarification about his old and new mortgages. He explained that his old 
mortgage had been on a fixed rate until 30 June, but hed arranged a new mortgage from a 
different lender well before then. He sent us a copy of the relevant documents  an 
agreement in principle  from 24 April 2018,  and a mortgage offer dated 29 May 2018. These 
showed that what Mr G had arranged was a remortgage to a different lender which was to 
include the amount  he was paying off his Help to Buy loan.
Mr G couldnt  start this new mortgage with his new lender until Targets  process had 
completed. He explained that this meant that he incurred financial losses of £900.55,  
because he couldnt  have avoided the problem.
Mr G also explained  that as well as financial losses, hed been  exposed to significant  
financial risk from:
Ref: DRN19185284- an increase in the Bank of England base rate, which had taken place during the 
period of Targets delay. This could have affected his interest and mortgage payment 
over a long period;  and
- risk of losing his new mortgage altogether, because the offer was only valid for a 
limited period.
Mr G also confirmed that he hadnt had the £400 but had returned  the cheque  to Target. 
Target said it hadnt offered £615.55  plus £400, but £615.55 in total. It highlighted how the 
figure it had put forward had been calculated, which was based  on the financial loss the 
adjudicator had calculated Mr G had suffered.  It had explained  it had awarded £50, £85 and 
the equivalent of the administration fee £315 as compensation for its poor service   a total of 
£450 (including the £400 cheque in dispute). It offered to increase this amount  by a further 
£65 to £515.
Whilst Target didnt  specify what the remaining £500.55 of its calculation  represented, given  
it started its calculation with the financial  loss figure  the investigator had determined,  it would  
be reasonable that the remainder of the sum would be redress for the financial loss Mr G 
had suffered.
Target didnt reply to the request in my provisional  decision  for it to check through  its 
accounts  not just its records of mail received on Mr Gs account  to establish  whether or 
not the £400 cheque  had been  cashed  to an account in Mr Gs name.
my further  provisional  findings
I reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In particular, I considered the responses  
to my first provisional decision. These responses meant that I changed my opinion about 
what would  be fair and reasonable.
I considered Targets comments in relation to the offer it made  following our investigators 
view. Target disputes the amount Mr G has already received. Its response maintains  that 
Mr G received and cashed  the £400  cheque it sent him, despite Mr G saying he returned it.
In my provisional decision I asked Target  to check its bank accounts to see if the disputed  
cheque had been cashed by Mr G. It didnt do so, or if it did, it had chosen  not to 
communicate its findings to this service. As Mr G has made  a positive statement that he has 
not had these monies and Target appears to have declined  to properly investigate the matter 
as requested, I reviewed  the complaint on the assumption that Mr G was telling the truth and 
he hadnt had the monies  from the disputed cheque.
In its response to the provisional decision, Target  said it hadnt offered Mr G a further 
£615.55 in addition to the £400  which  it said Mr G had already had, but £615.55 including 
that £400.  But its clear  that in that correspondence Target was saying Mr G hadnt  returned 
the £400 cheque,  which was why it deducted  it from its offer.  Target didnt provide the 
evidence I asked  for in relation to proof  that the £400 cheque had been cashed  to an 
account in Mr Gs name. So I assumed it didnt have such evidence.
Mr Gs financial  loss
The evidence which Mr G provided clearly showed that he did suffer a financial loss as a 
result of Targets delays. As he was remortgaging  to another  lender, not taking more money 
with his existing  lender,  he didnt have any other reasonable option but to wait for Target to 
Ref: DRN19185285act. So I considered that Target should reimburse  Mr G for his loss, and I went  on to 
calculate that.
If Target had acted as promptly as it should,  Mr G wouldnt have had to pay his existing 
lender:
- £1,339.31  in July;
- £1,339.31  in August; and
- £1377.90  in September.
What hed have  paid instead,  to his new lender, would have been £1,225.02  from July to
September. This would have been  higher  than the £1051.99 hed been  paying his old lender
up to June  2018, because  it included what he was paying off the Help to Buy loan and the 
interest rate was higher  than the fixed rate with the first lender. So the amount of Mr Gs 
financial loss was £4,056.52 (what he paid his old lender) less £3,675.06 (what hed have 
had to pay his new lender). So his financial loss was £381.46, which  I said I intended to 
award Mr G.
I also said I would award interest  at 8% simple on the amount above £1,225.02 Mr G paid for 
each month  from the date it was paid to the date when Target pays Mr G.
Compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Following the new information, I also reconsidered  the amount  of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.  I recognised that Mr G had pointed out that he might have had to pay a 
higher rate for his new mortgage because of the Bank of England interest rise. And 
mortgage offers arent valid indefinitely.
Taking everything into account,  I considered that a fair and reasonable total amount of 
compensation for distress  and inconvenience would be £750.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mr G accepted the second provisional  decision.
Target didnt accept it. It said it didnt believe any further redress  was justified. Target also 
said that it agreed that the disputed £400  hadnt been cashed. But it claimed that it didnt 
know whether or not Mr G had sent the cheque back, and it said that Mr G would have to 
prove hed returned  the cheque. Target alleged that without this evidence,  it wasnt possible 
to say whether  or not Mr G had returned  the cheque.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  in my second  provisional decision.
In relation to the disputed £400 cheque,  I have  previously  set out why I accepted Mr Gs 
word that he hadnt  had the money and had returned the cheque to Target.  I note that Target 
does now accept that that cheque never  cleared to an account in Mr Gs name. But I do not 
accept Targets latest argument that its up to Mr G to provide documentary proof that he 
returned the cheque.  Target sent Mr G the cheque on the basis that it owed him the money. I 
find  and even  Target agrees  that Mr G hasnt had the benefit of that money. Its irrelevant 
Ref: DRN19185286where the cheque  went  astray in the post. So I find that Target  must replace  that £400,  as 
well as paying the other sums I have found  are due to Mr G.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Target Servicing Limited to pay Mr G:
- £381.46 for Mr Gs financial loss which resulted  from Targets  delays; and
- interest at 8% simple on the amount above £1,225.02 Mr G paid for each month  from 
the date it was paid to the date when Target  pays Mr G.
- £750 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience which  Targets mistakes and 
delays caused  Mr G. This includes the £400 which  Target  sent to Mr G, which  he 
returned and didnt cash. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
*If Target Servicing Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest due 
it should  provide  the consumer with a certificate  of deduction  of income tax, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1918528