K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
A different business sold the PPI to Mr S - but Yorkshire Building Society  is now responsible 
for dealing  with this complaint. So, to keep  things simpler, Ill just refer in my decision to 
Yorkshire Building Society as the seller.
background
In 1988 Mr S took out a mortgage. At that stage he didnt take out PPI. 
In 1996 Mr S took out PPI to protect  his mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered 
Mr S in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr S disagreed. His main 
complaint is that it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Mr S also told us that 
he didnt need  PPI as he had other means to rely on to pay the mortgage if he wasnt 
working. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
I cant fairly uphold Mr Ss complaint that he was mis-sold PPI just based  on what he says.  
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
It looks like Mr S took out the PPI following a mailshot sent to customers of the building 
society who didnt already have PPI. 
I dont know if Mr S spoke to anyone at the building society about taking out the PPI or what, 
if anything, he was told about  it. But, as the mortgage had been running  for a number of 
years without PPI, I think hed have been aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted to 
take it out.
 
And in order to take out the policy, Mr S wouldve had to fill in a separate  application to have 
the PPI added on to his account and also set up new payment arrangements to cover the 
monthly premiums for the policy.
 
I can completely understand that Mr S told us hed forgotten  details from the sale. But his 
mortgage was a major financial commitment,  due to run for a long period of time. Mr Ss 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  The PPI 
provided a dependable  means of ensuring  the monthly repayments were  protected  even if 
he couldnt work. 
Ref: DRN19331232On balance, even  if he hadnt wanted  it before,  I think its likely that Mr S decided he wanted 
to have the benefits that PPI offered him after being  made aware of the policy  features, and 
so he chose to buy the insurance . 
Yorkshire Building Society says it didnt advise Mr S to have the policy   he chose the cover 
based on the information he was given about the policy. And I can see why Mr S mightve 
wanted to have PPI and how it couldve been  useful to him in his particular situation. 
Ive taken into account information  Mr S told us about the sick pay his employer paid. But 
I think PPI still couldve  been useful. 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any employment benefits and for up to 24 months 
per claim if Mr S had an accident or he was too sick to work. This couldve been  a useful 
benefit at whats  likely  to have been a difficult time if Mr S needed  to claim  especially after 
the first 8 months off work when hed have gone down to 75% of his normal pay. And the 
policy wouldve also covered him for up to 12 months at a time if he lost his job unexpectedly 
and he became unemployed.  
Ive also thought carefully about everything  Mr S told us about  his circumstances. 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  I dont  know  how 
long any savings Mr S had at the time wouldve lasted if hed needed to rely on these to 
cover his monthly outgoings if he wasnt working. And there  was no guarantee when Mr S 
took out the PPI that he would always have savings to rely on while he had to pay his 
mortgage.
Mr S mentioned having some things he could sell if necessary to raise money. But I think  it 
unlikely that selling off things hed bought  wouldve been enough  to pay the mortgage for 
very long  bearing in mind it was a financial commitment  he was expecting  to have to pay 
for many years. The policy provided  him with long term protection  as he couldve made 
repeated claims on it.  
I dont know how much information Mr S was given about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations. But it looks like Mr S was eligible for the policy and he wasnt  affected by any of 
the main things not covered under the policy. So I dont  think  more information  about things 
that didnt affect  him wouldve made  any difference to Mr Ss decision to take out PPI.
Yorkshire Building Society says that Mr S wouldve seen what  hed have to pay for the PPI 
as this was shown in the leaflet, the quotation  and the application form it sent him. He paid 
for the policy monthly so Mr S couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without incurring any 
extra cost if he hadnt wanted to keep  it running.  
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think that 
Mr S still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy even if hed been given clearer information as it 
gave him useful protection. I dont think having better information wouldve put him off buying  
it.
Looked at overall, this means that I dont  think Mr S lost out as a result  of anything Yorkshire 
Building Society did wrong. And so it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN19331233my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1933123