K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr H took out a joint mortgage in 1999  with Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.  
They say that during  this application, a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy was mis-sold to them because it was implied  they needed to have the MPPI to get 
their mortgage approved.
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr H its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs and Mr H say they were made  to feel they ought to buy the MPPI. I dont doubt that is 
their honest  recollection  now,  but I can see they both signed a mortgage  application  form 
which had a specific section on it about the MPPI.  
At the top of this section  it said Accident,  Sickness  and Unemployment  Insurance so I 
think Mrs and Mr H would  have been  able to understand what the form was for. I also think  
they would  have known they had a choice because  there was an option  to either sign this 
particular section, or leave it blank. I also note that Mrs and Mr H themselves say they 
initially turned the policy  down and said they were in a strong financial position, so Im afraid 
I dont think this supports  what  they are saying now about being pressured  into taking the 
policy out to get the mortgage  approved.
I also see they then went on to complete and sign a further application  form solely covering 
the MPPI.  This was entitled  MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS INSURANCE  APPLICATION. 
And so having  expressed an initial interest  on their mortgage application, Mrs and Mr H 
went on to confirm they wanted this type of cover by using a separate  and independent  
application form.
So I think this is all reliable and comprehensive evidence  that they agreed to buy this type 
of cover and they would have known it was optional. I accept that after 20 years  they may 
not now remember this, but I think the evidence clearly points to Halifax  properly obtaining  
Mrs and Mr Hs consent to buy the MPPI.
Halifax accepts it recommended this cover  to them when  they met, so it had a duty to make 
sure it was suitable for Mrs and Mr Hs situation.  I think it was.
This is because they took out cover  only for Mr H, not Mrs H. This seems to me that they 
therefore engaged in the sale process and had given considerable thought to how they 
wanted to structure  the MPPI  cover. Mr H was the higher earner and so covering his 
income does appear to make sense. He also appears to have been eligible for the cover 
Ref: DRN19859982and not caught by any of the main  exclusions  we sometimes see in these policies. The 
price seems  to be comparable with similar  policies from around that time and Ive seen 
nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them. 
Mrs and Mr H said they didnt need  the cover  because Mr H already enjoyed substantial  
sickness protection with his job. However, I note he had been with his employer for a few 
months at the time and so the information given to us about him having  substantial sick pay 
protection does  seem  to me to be very generous. Mrs H also provided us with salary details 
for Mr H which are considerably in excess of what they declared on their mortgage 
application at the time.  So I think some of this information is inconsistent  with what  Ive 
seen elsewhere.
These things perhaps demonstrate the difficulty in remembering events from so long ago 
but nevertheless  Ive thought very carefully about  Mrs and Mr Hs overall  situation.  However  
I dont think anything Ive seen made  the MPPI unsuitable for them.  The mortgage was 
secured against  their home and so the consequences of them not being  able to keep up 
payments could have  been serious for them. 
On the other hand, in the event of a successful  claim, the cover they bought  for Mr H was 
relatively good in my experience, when  benchmarked against  other  cover  available  at the 
time. The benefit amount of over £1,200  per month  was payable for up to 24 months  in the 
event of him being  unable  to work or losing his job. Whatever Mr Hs work-benefits were,  I 
think this would have  been quite a bit longer than any sick pay he had and it would have 
been in addition to any other means  he and Mrs H already  had in place at the time.
Mrs H also told us about very substantial earnings and savings she and Mr H had. Again, 
whilst I dont doubt her recollections are genuine, these are not reflected on the financial 
information I can see we have recorded from the time of the application and most of the 
information post-dates the sale event. I cant say why Mrs and Mr H decided  to buy this 
policy, but I dont  think Halifax recommending  it to them was unreasonable. 
I think the policy was suitable for them.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  if they were told everything  they ought  to have been. But I can see 
the costs of the cover were set out on the forms they both signed, as were  details about 
who and what was covered. The information they look to have been provided with seems 
very comprehensive and Im satisfied they had enough information on which  to make an 
informed decision.
Overall, I think its much  more likely that Mrs and Mr H engaged in the discussions about 
this sale and went through  a number of steps to get the policy.  I think the evidence is very 
strong that they agreed to the policy and would have  known they had a choice.  Ive taken 
into account what Mrs and Mr H said about their other means at the time but these arent 
consistent with details recorded on their mortgage application. 
I therefore dont  think this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint or direct Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything.  
Ref: DRN19859983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1985998