K821x#15complaint
Ms J is unhappy with Bank of Scotland Plcs (trading as Halifax) decision to decline a refund 
of £15,000 she lost as part of a scam.  Ms J also doesnt think  the bank handled  things 
correctly when the scam was reported.
background
Ms J was in the process of buying  a property. Shed been in regular communication  with her 
solicitor by email and was approaching the point where the deposit would need to be paid.
On 19 September  2017 Ms J received an email which appeared to come  from her solicitor. It 
asked her to pay the £15,000 deposit into an account. The payment details were provided in 
the email.
The email  appeared in a chain of others that had been sent to and from the solicitor.  Ms J 
transferred the money as per the instructions. She did so via online banking; setting up a 
new payee to make the payment.
Ms J then contacted her solicitor by phone to check the money had arrived. The 
conversation quickly  revealed that the solicitor  hadnt contacted Ms J about making a 
payment. The solicitor suspected Ms J had fallen  victim to a scam and suggested she 
contact her bank immediately. 
It became quickly apparent that the email Ms J received was from a scammer. Whoever had 
sent it had managed to send a fake email to Ms J which appeared to be just like genuine 
ones sent by her solicitor.  
Ms J contacted her bank  within  40 minutes  of making the payment to report what  had 
happened. She was told by the banks advisor that theyll try to recover  the funds on a best 
endeavours basis. Halifax incorrectly recorded the incident as a payment in error rather 
than as a scam, and Ms J was told shed get her money back.
Ms J contacted the bank a week later for an update. She discovered  the bank hadnt 
recorded her case as a scam and that it hadnt been in touch  with the recipient bank until two 
days after shed made the payment. She also later discovered Halifax  contacted  the wrong 
beneficiary bank  at first. She raised  a complaint as a result.
Halifax looked into what had happened and properly followed up on the scam. It discovered 
that the majority of Ms Js money had been  removed from the recipient account  within  
50 minutes of it being sent. Halifax recognised that had it acted earlier it mightve  recovered  
£1,550.
Halifax offered to refund Ms J the £1,550 as a result of its mistakes.  It also offered £250 
compensation for what had happened. But it didnt agree to refund Ms Js loss in full, 
believing it hadnt  done anything wrong in carrying out her instructions.
Ms J accepted the partial refund and compensation but on the basis  she could continue to 
pursue her complaint.  She then asked our service  to investigate.
Ms J set out the circumstances  of her complaint  but also the impact  events have  had on her. 
Shes described how shes a single mother  with three children and this money represented  
Ref: DRN12710112her life savings. She said, this issue has caused  me so much emotional, physical, mental 
psychological and financial stress  due to being  messed about by Halifax. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He could 
see Halifax had made some errors that would certainly have caused  Ms J distress  once 
shed reported  the scam.  He felt the compensation offered to Ms J in that regard was fair. 
Neither party disagreed with these findings.
But he also felt the bank should have  done more when Ms J was making the payment 
initially. He felt there were  enough indicators that Ms J was potentially  vulnerable and falling 
victim to a scam. He thought Halifax  had an opportunity to step in and question the payment. 
He believed, had it done so, its likely Ms J would  have contacted her solicitor before making 
the payment and the scam would have been  revealed with no loss being suffered.  As a 
result, he said Halifax should  refund Ms J in full (minus any amount already refunded) and 
pay 8% simple interest on the refund.
Halifax disagreed  and asked an ombudsman to review  the case. It said:
the transaction was unusual in size for Ms J, but the value and purpose were  entirely  
legitimate;
in the twelve  months  prior to the scam  Ms J did make large credits and debits to the 
account. It pointed  to:
oa debit card payment  of £6,200 on 31 July 2017  to a property auction 
company;
oa number of other transfers of six figure  sums
it wasnt uncommon for a large majority of its customers to make  instructions of this 
value from this type of account  (and then stated several possible purposes for such a 
payment);
intervening in such transactions could result  in significant harm in terms of customers  
suffering consequential losses;
it was for Ms J and her solicitor to agree how information about payments were  to be 
made prior to any transactions taking place;
had the bank questioned Ms J at the time she would not have raised concern as she 
believed she was paying her solicitor.
Because Halifax didnt agree with the investigators  opinion, the case has been  passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
Ref: DRN12710113codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
 The law recognises that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
 Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms J when she made a payment of £15,000  to a new payee, or whether it should  have  done  
more than it did.
The various pieces  of published  good  industry  practice, codes and guidance that Ive set out 
above all point to Halifaxs responsibility  to help protect its customers from fraud and to look 
out for out of character and unusual  transactions.
Ref: DRN12710114I recognise that the BSI Code was only introduced on 31 October 2017, so it came into force  
shortly after the payment  was made,  and I also recognise that Halifax  was not itself a 
signatory to the BSI Code.
But I consider the BSI Code was in any event a reasonable articulation of what I consider to 
have already been good industry practice by the time Ms J made the payment  and of the 
kinds of practical steps businesses  might fairly  and reasonably take.  I dont think  the BSI 
Code suggested  wholly new practices.
 
The payment of £15,000 that Ms J made to the fraudster represented a large increase in 
spending from her account.  It was unusual for Ms J to make  such  a large  single payment 
and Im mindful it reduced her balance to £113.84,  which left her without enough  money to 
fund imminent direct debits (without  her having to use her overdraft). The payment was also 
to a new payee. Taking all of these factors into account, Im satisfied that this payment was 
unusual and out of character for Ms J, and in Halifaxs communications  with us, it also 
agreed this was the case.
In a later response Halifax has explained that while the payment was unusual for Ms J, she 
made large  credits and debits from her account. Its referred to a debit  card payment to an 
house auction company for £6,200 in June  2017, and a number of other transfers of six 
figure sums. The point  Halifax is making  here is unclear,  but despite the activity its referred 
to, Im still satisfied that the payment to the fraudster was out of character and unusual for 
her. Ill explain why.
Im persuaded the debit card payment  of £6,200  was significantly different in nature to the 
payment made to the fraudster.  It was a card payment to a registered company. Im also 
mindful the payment was for less than half the value of the scam payment. 
And while Halifax has said there were numerous six figure transfers on the account, having 
reviewed the statements,  I can find no such sums.  Even a five figure sum isnt present prior 
to the payment Ms J made to the scammer. I can see Ms J received a payment of £9,515.20 
into her account on 27 July and there are several other payments made into the account on 
the same  day. Altogether these total £20,581.92. That is a significant  and unusual sum to be 
paid into Ms Js account. I dont consider this typical of Ms Js account  activity. But I also 
dont consider the later fraudulent payment of £15,000 out of the account, almost two 
months later, to be typical  either.  In the 12 months  prior to the scam Ms J hadnt made a 
payment anywhere  close to the value of £15,000. So despite  the credits  to Ms Js account, 
Im satisfied the payment she made to the scammer was out of character and unusual,  for 
the reasons Ive explained.
Given Im persuaded  this payment  was unusual and out of character,  I think  Halifax  ought  
fairly and reasonably, and as a matter  of good  practice, to have done  more  and made  
enquiries about the purpose of the payment before it processed it.
Halifax has commented that is has a regulatory obligation to allow customers access  to their 
funds, that intervening in such transactions could result in significant harm  in terms of 
customers suffering consequential losses, and that it wasnt  uncommon for a large majority 
of its customers  to make instructions of this value. I accept there is a balance  to be struck  
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising  disruption  
to legitimate payments. But if no payments were checked then no fraud  would be prevented.  
Ref: DRN12710115Ive also considered Halifaxs comments that its approach is to balance  the nature of the 
unusual transaction  with the presence of any other  red flags in making a decision as to 
whether to intervene. Its said in this case its fraud  detection system didnt identify this as 
having high risk characteristics.
How Halifax  chooses to configure its fraud detection  systems is for it to decide. But the 
question I need  to answer here is: based  on all the circumstances of this complaint, whether 
Halifax ought fairly and reasonably to have  done more in Ms Js case  whether  its fraud 
prevention systems detected the payment or not. And taking all of the above into account, I 
think Halifax should reasonably have taken  additional steps before processing  the payment.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think Halifax ought fairly  and reasonably to have 
identified that Ms J was potentially at risk of financial harm.  Im persuaded that as a matter of 
good practice, Halifax should fairly and reasonably have made additional checks, and made 
enquiries as to the purpose of the payment before processing it. 
I believe Halifax ought to have contacted Ms J to question her about the payment at the 
time. Had it done so I believe  the scam  would  have been revealed  and prevented. Ill explain 
why.
Ms J fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  a conveyancing scam. And its a 
type of scam that Im satisfied Halifax ought  to have  been aware of at the time. I dont doubt 
that had Halifax  contacted  Ms J about the payment to question what it was for she would 
have advised  it was to pay her solicitor as she was buying a property. As Halifax  has said, 
Ms J was making a legitimate payment and shed  not been coached  or told to say it was for 
anything other than what she believed to be the genuine purpose. So upon finding out Ms J 
was making a payment to her solicitor to cover a deposit on a property, Halifax would have 
had the opportunity to be proactive and ask Ms J some  further  questions, based on what  it 
knew about conveyancing scams. Its in asking such questions that a scam  like this can be 
revealed and prevented.
Bearing this in mind, and given the prevalence of this type of scam, I think  Halifax ought  
fairly and reasonably to have asked Ms J how the payment details had been communicated  
to her. Had it done so, Im persuaded Ms J would have told the bank theyd  been  sent to her 
from her solicitor by email. 
I believe Halifax ought fairly and reasonably to have then encouraged Ms J to confirm the 
details with her solicitor by phone  and to have explained the risks of scams involving the 
interception, altering and hacking of emails. Whilst its common for scams like this to involve 
a change in receiving account  details   where  the consumer has already paid the recipient 
before  Id still expect  a bank to advise  its customer to verify any account details, even 
where that hasnt  happened. 
It seems  to me that its more likely than not that had Halifax done this, Ms J would have 
taken such action and the solicitor would have advised theyd made no request for payment 
 after all, £15,000 is a lot of money to most  people, and in particular to Ms J. The funds 
would then not have been sent to the scammer  and lost.
I then reach  the finding that Halifax should refund Ms J the money  lost as part of this scam.  
Ms J has understandably suffered a great  deal of distress  as a result  of this fraud. Halifax 
clearly hasnt helped  here given its handling of the situation at the outset, incorrectly  
Ref: DRN12710116registering the details  of the scam and failing to follow-up with the receiving bank quickly. But 
Im also mindful much  of her distress will have been  suffered  at the hand  of the fraudster. 
And so I find the payment of £250 compensation to be fair and reasonable overall. My 
understanding is that this has already been  paid to Ms J, meaning no further amount is due 
in terms of compensation here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
refund  Ms J £13,450   that being the remainder  of the £15,000  lost as part of the 
scam and not yet returned to her; and
pay 8%simple interest per annum on the refund amount from 19 September  2017 to 
the date of settlement*;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
*If Bank of Scotland Plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award,  it should  provide 
Ms J with the appropriate tax deduction certificate  so she might  submit a claim to HMRC if 
applicable.
Ref: DRN1271011