K820x#14Complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that Lloyds Bank plc provided  it with an incorrect  
International Bank Account  Number  (IBAN) for its account.  R explains that it subsequently  
gave those details  to some of its customers to make payments but, because the IBAN was 
for another  customers  account, R did not receive  the money.  To settle the complaint,  R 
would like the bank  to compensate it for the money it did not receive.  Mr V, a director of the 
company, brings  the complaint on Rs behalf.  
Background
Mr V says he visited a branch of Lloyds on 26 March 2019  and took a screenshot image of 
Rs IBAN from the banks computer screen.   He further says he then gave that information to 
several of Rs customers for them to pay five invoices totalling  £2,951.   Those invoices were 
dated 1 April 2019, and they contained  the correct IBAN for Rs account.  But the payments 
were in fact made to a different account with Lloyds using the incorrect  IBAN.
Lloyds did not accept that it had provided Mr V with the screenshot information  he has 
produced which gives an incorrect  IBAN, and it noted that the invoices contained  the correct 
details for Rs account.  Our investigator  came to the same overall view,  and he did not 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence  is 
inconclusive and/or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The image I have  seen of the screenshot containing  the incorrect  IBAN is not particularly 
clear.  But it does not appear, on the face of it at least, to have been created by Lloyds; 
instead, it seems to be a screenshot  from a Currency Fair webpage.  I appreciate its always 
possible that a member of the banks staff could  have  shown Mr V a page from Currency  
Fairs website rather than the banks own system  but, on balance,  and in the absence of 
anything now being available  such as clear CCTV footage  from the time (if indeed  that would 
ever have been available) which  shows what happened, I consider that unlikely.  
In all the circumstances, therefore, and on the balance of probabilities I find that Mr V may 
most likely be mistaken in his recollection,  and that the screenshot  he has provided  is 
unlikely to have  been obtained from Lloyds.  It follows  that the bank cannot be held liable to 
R if the company  gave  those incorrect IBAN details to its customers to make payments to its 
account. 
However, and either way, Mr V has explained that he issues invoices  a couple of days after 
he provides his companys services, and that he takes deposits  in advance.  So  its not clear 
to me why  having issued invoices dated  1 April 2019 with the correct IBAN on them   he 
then gave his customers different  payment  information.  But in any event, the IBAN  as an 
international account number  is mostly made  up of the UK branch sort code and account 
number (which Mr V is likely already  to have known)  together with an international prefix.   
That international prefix is generally not required for intra-UK transfers.  
Ref: DRN12545502I understand that the payments were made very quickly after the invoices  were  issued, with 
the money being credited  to another account at a different branch of Lloyds.  When  
payments are made  incorrectly, as here, the Payment Services  Regulations set out the 
procedures banks should follow.  These  include taking reasonable steps  to help retrieve 
money which hasnt  reached  the intended recipient. 
Lloyds has been  in touch with the account-holder who received the money.   But the bank  
cannot simply take it back without the account-holders consent, and Im told this has not 
been forthcoming.  Im satisfied that, in doing  what it has done, Lloyds has taken the 
reasonable steps it is required to do.
What this means, therefore,  is that a different approach  is required  what is sometimes 
known as the protocol for misapplied  credits.  This entails the payers   so, in this case, Rs 
customers  telling their bank(s) that the payments were  made  using the wrong IBAN and 
asking them to try to recover the money.  In other words, the payers banks can apply to 
reclaim the money  on the basis that it was sent to the wrong  account  using the wrong 
IBAN.  Mr V will need to ask his customers to initiate this process.
So, in summary,  because I am satisfied that Lloyds:
did not, on balance,  provide incorrect IBAN  details to R; and
has taken the reasonable steps it is required to do to try to help R recover  the money it 
did not receive;
I find there is no proper basis for me to uphold the companys complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I am unable to uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or to 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254550