K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (AF) has not been  of satisfactory  quality.
background 
Mr D took receipt of a used car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with AF. At the point of supply the car, which  was first registered in 
October 2009, had completed 84,635 miles.  
Mr D says he soon noticed  something was wrong and took it to a local garage.  They said the 
timing chain was badly damaged and in danger  of snapping which  would cause significant 
engine damage.
The dealership would  not help so on 25 October 2018 Mr D contacted  AF. He booked the 
car in to the main dealership and AF shared the cost of the diagnostic with him. Following 
that diagnostic  the supplying dealership agreed to complete repairs  to the car. But Mr D 
didnt agree as he wanted  the main  dealership  to complete the work.
AF arranged an independent  inspection of the car which was completed on 12 December 
2018. At that point the car had covered 88,930 miles. 
The independent inspector said:
there were significant engine problems 
oil was entering the exhaust system
there was abnormal  timing chain noise and poor camshaft timing
the engine  management light was permanently illuminated
there was an oil leak in the timing  cover area
He said the vehicle should not be driven and suggested the engine  would  need  to be 
stripped down to investigate  the problems further.
He noted that the car had passed its MOT a few days before it was supplied to Mr D and that 
no issues were identified.  He thought  it was likely  that the timing chain problems were 
developing at that point but he explained that wear was to be expected on this component  
when the car had completed this amount of mileage.  He was of the opinion that the vehicle  
was of satisfactory quality  and fit for purpose  at the point  of supply with the reported issues  
occurring after that point.
AF noted that Mr D had told the dealership  about  the problems in the first few days.  So they 
said theyd be prepared  to pay to have the timing chain replaced  but they werent prepared 
to pay for repairs to the engine as they said these were most likely caused  by Mr D 
continuing to drive the car after he knew there were significant problems with it. They  noted 
hed covered an additional  4,952  miles.
Our adjudicator noticed that Mr D had reported  the timing chain problem  very early on and 
she therefore thought the business should  take responsibility for its repair. But she noted  
that Mr D had continued to drive  the car despite being aware this could cause further 
damage. So she didnt think AF needed  to pay for the subsequent  damage that she was 
Ref: DRN18908302persuaded, from the independent inspectors report, had probably occurred. She thought 
AFs offer was fair and they neednt take any additional action.
But Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said she was making  presumptions  and 
he therefore asked  for an ombudsman  to make a final decision using the facts in the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr D so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then AF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr D. The car here 
was around nine years old and had travelled about  85,000 miles.
Im persuaded that a problem with the timing  chain was identified in the first few days. The 
relevant legislation would suggest  that it is therefore  most likely that the fault was present 
when the car was supplied to Mr D.
In those circumstances it is AFs responsibility  to put this right.  But Im not persuaded its 
their responsibility to put the subsequent engine faults right.
I say that because:
the independent experts view is that the faults  have developed  since  supply;
the car didnt show signs of failure at the MOT completed just before it was supplied 
to Mr D. I think it would have  done  if the issues  that were  now present were  there  at 
that point;
Im persuaded that timing chains are items  that wear and need changing 
occasionally. The independent  inspector has confirmed that wear would be expected  
at this age and mileage and is not unusual;
Ref: DRN18908303Im persuaded that Mr D knew the fault could cause significant damage to the car but 
continued to drive it. He said that when he first took the car to a local garage he was 
told the timing chain  was badly  damaged and was in danger of snapping, therefore 
causing serious damage to the engine.  And Im persuaded from the independent  
report and the MOT  that that is what has subsequently happened.
So, I would agree with the adjudicator that AF have been reasonable in their offer to fund the 
replacement of the timing  chain  but that they neednt take any action  other than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Advantage Finance 
Ltd to pay for the replacement of the cars timing chain.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1890830