K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about  the way Mortgage Express  (ME)  has dealt with their 
buy-to-let (BTL) and residential mortgage  accounts.  The complaint has been brought  by 
Mrs S on behalf of herself and her husband,  and shes been assisted by her daughter,  Ms S.
background
Because our decisions are published, I have to ensure that there is nothing in this decision 
which could lead to Mr and Mrs S being  identified.  Given this, what follows  is a brief 
summary of the background  to this matter. The full circumstances surrounding this complaint 
are set out in a letter from the investigator  dated 1 February 2019, a copy of which has been 
sent to Mr and Mrs S and to ME. In addition, Mr and Mrs S and ME have  also provided 
detailed correspondence  about whats happened, all of which  Ive read. 
Briefly, Mr and Mrs S had five BTL mortgages  and a mortgage on their residential property, 
all with ME. Because of arrears, ME appointed  Law of Property  Act (LPA) receivers to 
manage the BTL properties. ME also obtained a possession  order over Mr and Mrs Ss 
residential property.
In 2013 Mr and Mrs S complained to us about  the appointment  of the receivers.  On 
29 January 2014  an ombudsman  issued  a final decision  in which he decided that ME was 
both entitled to appoint LPA receivers and to decide  the terms upon  which  it would 
dis-instruct the receivers. 
Mr and Mrs S have  now complained about  what has happened since their previous 
complaint, specifically:
sale of a property  (which I will call 48) in June 2013 at an undervalue;
sale of a property  (26) in May 2014  at an undervalue;
sale of a property  (36) in May 2014  at an undervalue;
failure by ME to reply  to complaint letters  about 26 and 36;
failure by ME in 2014 to provide copies of letters sent in August 2010 and May 2011;
ME claiming not to have received  approximately  ten complaint letters sent by recorded 
delivery.
On 13 October 2019 I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that we couldnt consider the 
complaint about  MEs failure in 2014  to provide copies of letters sent in August 2010 and 
May 2011. Thats because ME had issued  a final response on that issue  in May 2017 and 
the complaint  hadnt been brought within six months of the date of that letter. Because  there 
were no exceptional  circumstances  to explain the delay,  our rules didnt allow us to consider 
that particular  issue.
An investigator looked at the other  parts of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, but didnt think any 
part of the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14312532The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
In her letter dated 4 April 2019  Mrs S has raised  numerous issues  which were dealt with by 
the previous ombudsman in his decision issued in January  2014   issues with direct debits, 
the appointment of receivers, MEs conditions for dis-instructing the receivers and court 
proceedings. Although Ive noted what Mrs S has said, I wont  be commenting on those 
issues any further, because theyve already been  the subject of a final decision.
As I stated above, I will not be considering the complaint that ME failed to provide Mr and 
Mrs S with copy  correspondence from 2010  and 2011 after they requested  this in 2014. 
Thats because Ive already decided that this part of the complaint is out of time. Ive 
reviewed my jurisdiction decision dated 15 October 2019 and Ive been presented  with no 
new evidence or arguments  that would lead me to change this decision.
sale of 48: This property was sold by the LPA receivers, not by ME. If Mr and Mrs S have  
concerns about  the sale, theyll need  to take this up with the LPA receivers. The LPA 
receivers are Mr and Mrs Ss agents,  not MEs. In the circumstances, Im not upholding this 
part of the complaint against ME.
sale of 26: This property was sold at auction  by ME as Mortgagee  In Possession in 
May 2014. It was given  a guide  price  of £40,000. Another auction appraisal  on 9 April 2014 
was for £35,000. The property  was sold for £36,000.  Mr and Mrs S say that this is less than 
half its actual value,  and they are very unhappy at the shortfall debt theyre being asked to 
pay. 
Mr and Mrs S say that the mortgage  on this property  was £7,000  in credit.  But when ME 
appointed LPA receivers in November  2011, the account was in arrears. The LPA receivers 
managed the property  and rented it out. At one point the account was about £4,000 in credit, 
not £7,000. But the tenant stopped paying rent, so ME took the matter  to court.  The court 
was satisfied that ME was entitled  to possession, so I cant  comment any further on that.
Before the property could be sold, ME had to take steps to secure it. This resulted in the 
property being  shuttered.  Mrs S told ME she was going to remove  the shutters  and so ME 
decided to appoint  security guards at the property, which added  to the overall  cost.  
MEs explained that it did so because it had had issues in the past of Mr and Mrs S 
re-entering properties that had been  taken into possession. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied MEs actions  were proportionate  to the situation, albeit those  actions increased  the 
costs payable by Mr and Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN14312533Having reviewed the evidence presented by both parties,  Im satisfied the property wasnt 
sold at an undervalue. Im also satisfied the costs  incurred  by ME which  have increased  the 
shortfall debt were reasonably incurred. This means  Im not upholding this part of the 
complaint.
sale of 36: ME decided  to sell this property as Mortgagee Not In Possession.  Im satisfied 
that the terms and conditions  applicable  to Mr and Mrs Ss BTL mortgage portfolio allow  ME 
to do this. As these  are commercial loans, ME is entitled to determine  the level of risk to 
which it is prepared to be exposed in both its lending and administration of this type of 
account. So Ive reviewed MEs actions and my findings on this are set out below.
I note that LPA receivers had been appointed in August 2011, due to arrears. The Receivers 
stood down in February  2012 because Mr S said he was living  in the property (itself a breach 
of the terms and conditions for a BTL mortgage).
By April 2014 (with the property now tenanted) the mortgage  was six months in arrears and 
ME wrote  to Mr and Mrs S with formal demand for full repayment of the mortgage debt. Im 
satisfied ME is allowed to do this. In the absence  of payment, ME wrote to Mr and Mrs S 
confirming that it was exercising the power  of sale pursuant to the mortgage conditions.
Im satisfied that MEs actions were  reasonable, given  the issues  ME had faced in relation to 
other properties where Mr and Mrs S had attempted to frustrate  MEs legitimate recovery 
actions.
ME decided to enter the property into an auction  in London, about 200 miles from its 
location. ME has explained that its reason for doing so was because ME believed that 
Mr and Mrs S were  trying to frustrate the sale as they were  in contact with the local auction 
house. 
Im satisfied ME is entitled to auction  the property  as it thinks fit. I find its reasons for 
auctioning the property in London are reasonable. Im also satisfied that the property  wasnt  
sold at an undervalue.  The price reflected  that the property wasnt  sold with vacant 
possession, but subject to a tenancy. The suggested guide  price was £68,000 and the 
property was sold for £61,000,  which  is about  10% lower  than the suggested guide. This is 
an acceptable margin.
failure to reply to complaint letters  about 26 and 36: Other  than correspondence  with 
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors  in relation to 36, ME has said its been  unable to trace any specific  
complaints about  these  two properties,.
I can see that ME has written numerous letters in response to letters sent by Mr and Mrs S . 
Given this, Im not persuaded ME has failed to reply to complaint correspondence. The 
answers ME was giving to Mr and Mrs S were, I can see, not to their liking.  But that doesnt  
mean that ME didnt  respond to their concerns.  In the circumstances, Im not upholding this 
part of the complaint.
recorded delivery correspondence:  Mr and Mrs S say they sent approximately ten letters 
to ME by recorded delivery,  but ME claims it has no record of them. Although  requested to 
do so, Mr and Mrs S havent been  able to provide tracking numbers for these letters.  In the 
circumstances, as there is no evidence to substantiate their contention Im unable to uphold 
this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN14312534conclusion 
I can see from the correspondence that Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly  about  what  they 
perceive to be MEs poor treatment of them. But as an independent and impartial  reviewer, I 
am able to look at Mr and Mrs Ss grievances with a degree of objectivity which has led me 
to conclude that ME hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S were  hoping for. Im aware that the events of the 
past few years have  been very stressful and upsetting for them.  I am truly sorry if this 
decision adds to their distress. But after giving  careful consideration to everything Mr and 
Mrs S and ME have said, Im unable to uphold any part of this complaint.
Ms S has recently told us that Mrs S has been  writing to ME about her complaints but that 
ME hasnt responded.  If Mrs S is complaining  about  the same  things  shes already raised 
with ME (and with us), then ME isnt required to reply to those complaints again. If Mrs S is 
raising new issues that ME hasnt previously  been  asked to consider, ME is allowed 8 weeks  
to respond to the new complaint.
Unless there are new issues that havent  previously been raised  with ME, the Financial  
Ombudsman Service wouldnt generally reconsider a complaint  that wed already been 
asked to look at. I appreciate Mrs S hasnt been  happy with the outcome of her complaints to 
us, but that doesnt mean she can bring  the same  complaint again in the hope of getting a 
different result.  I feel I must  make  this clear, so that Mrs S is under no misunderstanding 
about the extent  of what we are able to do. I know that dealing with these matters  has been 
very stressful for Mrs S, and I would not want her to be caused any further  upset by trying to 
pursue complaints against ME that have already had an ombudsmans  decision and which  
we are therefore unable to reconsider.
I also think Mr and Mrs S might find it helpful  to talk to one of the free debt advice agencies, 
such as Citizens Advice,  StepChange or Shelter. We can provide them with contact details 
for those  agencies, if theyd like us to.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1431253