K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that some of her direct debit payments werent  taken from her new bank 
account when  she switched to Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide). She said shed  
suffered distress and inconvenience as she had to set up the direct  debits again herself.
background
In July 2018 Miss M switched her bank  account to Nationwide. It offered a 7 day switch 
guarantee which meant that after seven days all direct debits and standing  orders, as well as 
income payments,  would be switched to the new account and any payments into and out of 
the old account would be redirected.  
Soon after the switch  completed Miss M became aware that one of her direct debits hadnt 
been taken from the new account.  She made some enquiries with Nationwide  but it said it 
hadnt been asked to pay the direct debit  by that business and asked Miss M to check 
further.  Miss M subsequently called Nationwide to confirm  that three further direct debits 
hadnt been taken either.  Nationwide told Mrs M that the direct debits were  all showing as 
being set up on her new account but the businesses the payments related  to just hadnt  
requested payment. Nationwide was satisfied it hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss M said she should have been made  aware  that such problems might occur but she 
expected the switch guarantee to guarantee the direct debits would be paid. She said shed 
suffered a lot of stress  from having  to set up the payments again as well as time spent on 
the telephone sorting  things out. Nationwide said it couldnt be held liable if a company didnt 
ask for payments and it had set up all the direct debits as it promised it would. Unhappy with 
this response Miss M brought  her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
there was no evidence that Nationwide hadnt  set up the direct debits and as a part of the 
switch guarantee  a redirection process  meant any missed payments could be redirected  
from Miss Ms previous  bank account. But Miss M didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss M is frustrated that her account  switch didnt go smoothly and meant she 
had to spend time reinstating some direct debits herself. But although  I have some  sympathy  
for the position  she was in, I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong here. I know                
Miss M will be disappointed  by that outcome so Ill explain why. 
Ive seen that Miss Ms full account  switch completed on 11 July 2018  - under the seven day 
switch guarantee.  And Ive seen how Nationwides systems showed  that all her direct debits 
had been set up to be paid to a number of different businesses on 5 and 9 July 2018. So Im 
satisfied that Nationwide did what it said it would do under the seven day switch  guarantee. 
Ref: DRN10776782But Ive also seen from Miss Ms bank statements that not all of her direct  debits  did go out 
of the account  when  they should  have  done.
As part of Nationwides responsibility when  it switched  Miss Ms account, it had to set up the 
direct debits on her account  and notify the direct debit mandates originator of the new 
account details.  This could have been  done  by an automated direct debit instruction service  
or non-automated. And Ive seen  evidence to show that Nationwide  did set up the direct  
debits and how it then notified the appropriate businesses.
So Im satisfied that Nationwide did what it said it would do regarding  direct debits as part of 
the whole  account switching process.  And once they were set up it was then down to each  
business to collect  payments.  If that didnt happen  then thats a matter for those businesses.
If Nationwide  hadnt set up any of the direct debits properly I would have expected that none  
of them  would have  been paid. Because Ive seen that only some of the direct  debits  werent 
collected from the account  I think  Nationwide  did set them up and the other  organisations 
involved didnt request their payments. So I havent seen any evidence to show  that it was 
Nationwides fault and I cant safely say its made any errors here. 
But whats  not in dispute here is that the seven day switch guarantee did work  in as much  
as the direct debits payments were  redirected from the old account.  So Miss M didnt suffer  
any financial  loss and her payments  were made  to the appropriate companies without any 
delays and without  causing any issues with her credit file. Miss M hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that her credit  file has been affected. 
Ive also gone  on to consider what Miss M said about being inconvenienced by having  to 
telephone some of the companies about her direct  debits  and get them reinstated. Shes 
said this caused  her a great deal of stress and wants some  form of compensation. While I 
can appreciate this would have caused  Miss M some degree  of inconvenience I cant  safely  
say it was caused as a result of an error from Nationwide  So I dont think Nationwide  should 
have to make any compensatory award. 
Ultimately here Im satisfied  Nationwide did switch Miss Ms account within  the time it said 
and using the guarantees it gave. I think it did set up the direct debits and I dont think  it 
stopped the companies involved taking their payments  although Im unable to confirm the 
actual reasons why the direct debits werent taken. But the switch  guarantee meant  Miss Ms 
payments were made  and she didnt suffer any financial loss or adverse credit markers  on 
her file.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against Nationwide  Building  
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN10776783ombudsman
Ref: DRN1077678