K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  accept  responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision. 
Mr H has been represented throughout his complaint. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
FICL didn't reply.
Mr Hs representative did respond. He was disappointed with my conclusion that I thought  
Mr Hs entitlement to 12 months  sick pay was unlikely. And because  of the length of time 
since the sale in 1999, it wasnt surprising that Mr H wasnt able to provide any evidence 
about his sick pay. But Mr H had been  consistent about his sick benefit throughout the 
complaint process.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mr Hs representative has said about him being employed  by a large 
corporation in a senior position. He had been  employed for ten years at the time of the sale 
at a time when employee benefits  were  more generous. 
But the reason  I thought it unlikely Mr H received full employee sick pay for 12 months is 
because of my knowledge  and experience of various employee benefits over a wide range of 
businesses and sectors. 
And because Mr Hs stated benefits were  so unusually generous, and in the absence of any 
information or evidence,  for me to uphold the complaint, I would have to think  it more  likely 
than not that Mr H received the generous benefits  that he remembers  he did. I have also 
borne in mind  that the sale was 20 years ago so Mr Hs memories might  have  faded  
overtime.
If Mr H did receive  sick pay for 12 months  I would think it more  likely that this wouldnt have 
been at full pay for the whole year but reducing  to say, half pay, after a certain  period  after 
six months is common. 
The policy would pay out over and above  the employee benefits Mr H would  receive. It 
would have covered the monthly  repayment  of his store card,  so I think he would have found 
the policy useful.  It was a financial comfort he wouldnt otherwise have had. 
Ref: DRN16821212Mr Hs representative has said that very little was explained to him about  the policy. I 
appreciate this was a non-advised  sale so it would have been  for Mr H to decide whether the 
policy was right for him. And Id already  said in my provisional decision that its possible  that 
FICL didn't give information to Mr H as clearly as it should have done.  But I think  Mr H 
wanted the policy so I dont think any further  explanation or clearer information  would have  
caused him to change  his mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about the sale of his store 
card PPI policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16821213copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been  agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer,  should  accept responsibility for the complaint. 
To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision. 
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  Mr H took out with a store card in June 1999.  It was added to his 
account when he applied for the card in store. 
Our adjudicator didn't  uphold the complaint.  He considered that even though Mr H has told us he had 
very good employee benefits  he could still have benefited from having the policy.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint  has been passed to me for decision.  
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think  FICL made Mr H aware  he had a choice  about buying  the PPI, and that he chose  to take it. I 
say this because FICL has been able to give us a copy of the credit agreement  completed by Mr H at 
the time of the sale.  And I see that Mr H signed a separate  section of the agreement  to take the PPI. I 
think if Mr H hadnt wanted  to take the PPI, then he wouldnt have chosen to sign for it. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest  FICL assessed Mr Hs individual needs,  such  as his employee benefits 
or health, and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely  it did. This meant it didn't 
have to check  if it was right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information he needed  
to decide if it was right for him. 
Mr H has said details of the policy werent  explained  to him and so he wasnt in a position  to make an 
informed decision about taking the PPI. Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mr H about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. So I need to consider if Mr H would have acted differently and 
not bought the policy, if better information had been provided.  And on balance, I dont  think  better  
information would have led him to act differently. 
Mr H has told us that if he was too unwell to work  he would have received  12 months  full pay from his 
employer. But after careful consideration, I think its unlikely Mr H would  have received the level of 
sick pay he says he received.  I say this because of what I know from experience, and have seen of 
employee benefits  across a wide variety of industries and sectors. So I think its unlikely that Mr H 
would have received 12 months sick pay at the time he applied for the policy. 
So I thinks its more  likely, based on what I have seen so far, the policy  would have been of use to 
Mr H if he wasnt able to work. It would have paid out in addition to any employee benefits he may 
have received so would  have covered the monthly repayments he would  need to make on the store 
card. It would also have paid out if he had lost his job. 
Ref: DRN16821214But if Mr H can provide anything further about his employment or employee benefits  then I will 
consider it before I make  my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im currently not intending  to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I am provisionally minded  to say the policy  wasnt  mis-sold.  I invite both parties  to respond with 
anything further they wish me to consider. 
Ref: DRN1682121