K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited, which Ill call by its trading name 
Likely Loans, lent £2,000 to her irresponsibly in October 2016, because it should  have been 
obvious the loan was unaffordable. 
background
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ws complaint. He wrote three sets of conclusions,  the 
second and third sets complementing and expanding on the first set, and his overall 
conclusions were:
Likely Loans had carried out adequate enquiries  into Miss Ws circumstances before 
agreeing to lend and had reached the reasonable conclusion she could  afford the 
loan.
The evidence indicated the loan had then indeed  proved to be affordable for Miss W. 
Shed kept up the due repayments and then repaid the loan early.
 When she applied for the loan from Likely  Loans Miss W had wrongly failed to 
declare details of other loans shed taken  out and which still existed. 
Miss Ws complaint didnt succeed.
Miss W didnt accept  the investigators conclusions. She said that, when  she applied for the 
loan from Likely Loans, she was spending  two-thirds of her income  on repaying short-term 
loans. Likely  Loans  would  have seen this if it had asked for her bank statements. She 
accepted shed failed to declare the other  existing  loans when she applied for the loan from 
Likely Loans. But she said Likely Loans was also to blame for not carrying out proper checks 
and not discovering  the details for itself. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss W but I too 
have concluded  her complaint doesnt  succeed.  
Where anyone fails to comply with a strict duty of honest disclosure, as Miss W did here, its 
not a valid defence to say that the other party, in this case  Likely  Loans,  owed them  a duty to 
save them  from the consequences of their own deliberate decision not to make honest  
disclosure. 
It seems  likely that if Miss W had disclosed the loans, as she should have done, 
Likely Loans wouldnt have lent to her. It follows that Miss Ws actions are directly 
responsible for the loan being  made.
Like the investigator, I think Likely Loans made reasonable  enquiries into Miss Ws 
circumstances in any event. But the important point  is that I dont think  Likely  Loans  is to 
blame for the consequences to Miss W of not finding out about the other loans.  
And apart from that, I too think, in view of the evidence,  that the loan proved to be affordable.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Ref: DRN18044292Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1804429