K821x#15complaint
Miss C says MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 9 loans MYJAR provided to Miss C between  September  2015  and 
February 2017. Miss Cs loans were for between £100 and £1000.  From what I can see, 
Miss C has repaid all her loans.
MYJAR offered to refund  all interest  and charges in relation to loan 2 and 8 but it considered  
that the other loans were responsibly  given and proportionate checks undertaken.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Cs complaint in part and thought MYJAR shouldnt have given 
Miss C any of the loans  from loan 5 onwards. MYJAR disagreed  and said it wasnt  clear  that 
the adjudicator  had reviewed all of the information  it had sent and there was a lack of 
reasoning in the view. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN18019042I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. Like the adjudicator  I havent  
considered loan 2 save  as part of the overall borrowing pattern given the offer made by 
MYJAR to put things  right which is line with what I would ask it to do. I have considered  loan 
8 as the redress offered is not fully in line with our approach  in relation to credit  files. 
MYJAR asked Miss C for information  about  her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Miss C said she earned £1800 a month and her outgoings were £600. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Miss C 
provided or the information MYJAR  shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss C was saying. So I cant say MYJAR  was wrong to 
have provided  loans one to three.
At the point of loan 4 I think the business should have looked more  closely  at Miss Cs 
finances given  her borrowing pattern. By loan 4, Miss C had been borrowing consistently 
since September 2015 and although there was a gap between  repaying loan 3 and 
requesting loan 4 it was only a few weeks and so I dont think  it is significant. I think  that by 
this stage MYJAR should have done more  to make sure this lending was sustainable for 
Miss C given the information  she had given about  her income  and outgoings and her 
borrowing pattern.
Looking at Miss Cs borrowing history I can see that up to loan 4 she was borrowing very 
soon after repaying  the previous loan and the amounts were increasing.  So MYJAR ought  to 
have realised it was more likely than not Miss C was having  to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss C was not 
sustainably repaying  the credit. Miss Cs borrowing pattern was at odds with the amount of 
disposable income she had declared. If MYJAR  had carried  out further checks  at the point of 
loan 4 it would have seen that this loan was unsustainable for Miss C. Miss C had other 
short term lending and was using credit to repay credit.
This situation didnt  change  for the subsequent  loans. So I think that MYJAR  shouldnt have 
given Miss C loans 4 and 5. 
Ref: DRN18019043Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Cs lending with MYJAR to see if there  was a point 
at which  MYJAR should reasonably have seen  that further lending  was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Miss C.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Cs case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
When Miss C took out loan six, shed been  borrowing almost  continually and wasnt  
making any inroads  into the amount that she owed. 
Loan 6 was Miss Cs largest amount of £1000, taken out less than two weeks  after 
repaying loan 5. It suggests that Miss C was trying to borrow  her way out of difficulty 
rather than sustainably  repaying  what she had borrowed.  I think this pattern of lending 
shouldve alerted MYJAR to the likelihood  that Miss C was having problems responsibly  
managing her money. So I think the signs were there  that she wasnt  using the credit  as 
a short term measure  to a temporary  cash  flow problem.
I think that Miss C lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
When Miss C took out loan six, shed been borrowing almost continually  and wasnt  
making any significant inroads into the amount that she owed. 
The number of loans,  combined with the total length of time Miss C had been  
borrowing from MYJAR was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Miss C in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Cs complaint about  loans 5 to 9 in addition to the offer made for loan 
2.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, not including  anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss C which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss C originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Miss C the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  entries from Miss Cs credit file about loans 4 and 5. The 
number of loans taken  from loan six onwards  means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 9 should be removed from 
Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN18019044For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Cs complaint. MYJAR  Limited  
should pay Miss C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1801904