K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with his home  
emergency insurance claim. My references to RSA include its agents.
background
On 28 October 2018 Mr M contacted RSA to claim on his home emergency insurance  as his 
heating and hot water had stopped  working.
Mr Ms boiler  showed an F3 error  code,  indicating the fault was to do with the fan. RSAs  
contracted engineer attended the next day. Mr M says the engineer  agreed it was probably a 
fan problem but when  the engineer checked the boiler it also showed an F12 error code 
which indicated the PCB (primary circuit  board)  was faulty. 
RSAs engineer ordered a new circuit  board and on 31 October he replaced the part. Mr M 
said within fifteen minutes of the engineer  leaving the heating  and hot water stopped working 
and the boiler  showed a F3 error  code.  He called RSAs engineers who said it would  call 
back but that didnt happen until 4 November. It told Mr M he would have to pay £268.60  for 
the second repair as the repair  cost exceeded  the policy limit. 
By then Mr M had bought a new boiler.  He said he and his wife had been without heating or 
hot water  from 28 October and 'in desperation hed decided to replace the boiler. He 
complained to RSA and asked it to pay for the new boiler, £2,135.
RSA said its engineer had initially taken reasonable steps to repair  the boiler. But it accepted 
it had given Mr M poor service following  the second  break down and should have offered 
heaters until a repair could take place. It offered £410 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. It wouldnt contribute to the cost of the boiler.
Our investigator thought RSAs offer was fair.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He says £410 isnt enough  to 
compensate for his and his wifes extreme stress  and anxiety they suffered during very cold 
weather particularly given their age. He believes RSA wrongly diagnosed the original  fault 
which led to the second break down and it was negligent in not recognising both the fan 
and the PCB needed replacing. He also says RSAs  contracted engineer had many serious 
complaints on review websites so RSA should have  corrected  the contractors problems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The home emergency cover says RSA will pay for temporary repairs to resolve  emergency  
situations, parts and call-out charges up to £500  where Mr M has no heating or hot water 
due to his boiler  break down.
Ref: DRN14509322I think its probable that after RSAs engineer attended the first boiler  break down Mr M was 
always going to have to wait for a new part to be ordered and delivered.  Ive seen no 
evidence that RSA unreasonably  delayed from 28 to 31 October, when it did the repair.
Ive considered whether RSAs engineer should  have realised the fan needed  repairing at his 
first visit. RSA said when the engineer attended  there were  two error codes, F12 and F3. 
The boilers manufacturers technical department advised it was likely to be a PCB fault 
which wasnt allowing the fan to reach the correct speed. I think  RSAs engineer  acted 
reasonably on the technical advice.
When the engineer  left Mr Ms house the hot water  and heating were working so at that point  
there was nothing to suggest the PCB replacement hadnt fixed the problem. With hindsight 
it looks as if the boiler had a separate fault with the fan. But on the boiler manufacturers 
advice RSAs engineer acted reasonably in not replacing the fan on 31 October.
RSAs service after Mr M called it about the second break down  on 31 October was very 
poor, as it accepts. It should have contacted Mr M sooner than four days  later and it should  
have offered him some heaters. I dont doubt  that Mr M and his wife were  distressed and 
very uncomfortable without heating and hot water  in cold weather and they would have been 
anxious not to have  heard from RSA about a repair date. 
However, I think the £410 compensation RSA offered is a fair amount to acknowledge the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience RSAs poor service  caused. 
There's no basis for me to say RSA must  contribute to the cost of the new boiler. I do 
understand that Mr M didnt want to wait any longer to hear from RSA about  the repair.  But it 
was Mr Ms choice to buy a replacement boiler. RSA wasnt  responsible for him deciding that 
his only solution  to the delay was to buy a new boiler at considerable cost.
Mr M thinks RSA should have taken corrective action with its contracted  engineers  following 
poor reviews. I cant tell RSA what action  it must  take in managing its contractors.  RSAs  
final response letter to Mr M gave some information  about the actions  it was taking following 
feedback.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1450932