K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain they were mis-sold a joint unit-linked reviewable  whole of life policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (the business). 
background
In August  1993,  Mr and Mrs D were  advised  to take out a joint reviewable whole of life policy 
with a £100,000 sum assured for an initial monthly premium of £34. 
In July 2003, the policy was reviewed and failed the review. Mr and Mrs D agreed  to 
increase their premium  to £46.88  a month  in order to maintain the sum assured. In August 
2008, the policy was reviewed again but no changes  were necessary however theres no 
record of the review letter. 
In July 2013, the policy was reviewed again, and Mr and Mrs D opted to increase their 
premium to £53.55  to maintain the sum assured.  But in April 2016 the business found that 
the premium increase  was incorrect and it shouldve been  £58.14.  Mr and Mrs D were  given 
the option and agreed  to pay this amount moving forward.  
In January 2019, the policy was reviewed  again  and Mr and Mrs D were  told that theyd have 
to pay £121.84  to maintain their sum assured. This is what prompted  the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs D have since agreed to reduce their sum assured and pay the same  premium, but they 
still feel the policy was mis-sold. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Theres very little evidence from when the policy was sold in 1993. 
The limited paperwork does suggest that Mr and Mrs D were provided  with policy  
documentation at the point of sale. Having seen a copy  of the application form  
supplied by the insurer  the last page shows that the adviser  left a copy  of the policy  
documents with them.
The documents were  more likely  than not to explain the reviewable nature and 
operation of the policy. 
Its unclear what was (and wasnt) said about their existing insurance policies. But 
employee benefits would only last as long as Mr and Mrs D were employed  whereas 
a whole of life policy would continue to provide  cover, until death,  as long as the 
premiums were  paid.
Their Mortgage  protection was likely to provide cover for the duration  of the mortgage 
and critical illness cover (CIC) would only provide cover if there either of them were  
diagnosed with a specified critical illness and not on death. So having the additional  
cover didnt  negate  the need for whole of life cover, because  they were  for different 
things. 
Non-reviewable whole of life policies were most likely available but probably wouldve 
cost similar  to what Mr and Mrs D are being asked  to pay now but from the outset.  So 
its unlikely they wouldve gone for this option in 1993. 
The Independent  Financial Adviser (IFA) working for Halifax  at the time wasnt  
obliged to only sell the business policies so is likely  to have searched the market 
place to find what was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. 
Theres no way of saying what was and wasnt explained about the stock market and 
the investment  element.  
Ref: DRN11902772Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the investigators conclusions  and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. They maintain  the policy was mis-sold. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs D have said Im not 
satisfied that the reviewable whole of life policy  was mis-sold. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise their strength of feeling  about this matter.  
Mr and Mrs D have provided  detailed  submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont  take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs D and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mr and Mrs D are complaining  about  is 
known as a reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific  term, or 
particular diagnosis, but is instead  designed to pay out on death whenever  it occurs. 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. Thats why initially Mr and Mrs D only 
paid £34 a month for £100,000 worth of cover.  
Plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums are 
likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of (or increased cost of) the 
premiums. This is why Mr and Mrs D couldnt  have  been told how the premiums  were likely 
to change.  
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of the cover 
however isnt fixed and actually  increases with age as Mr and Mrs D have no doubt seen. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age. In this case  the hope 
Ref: DRN11902773is that the investment element will grow enough  to fund the shortfall  when the policy  reaches 
the point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium being paid and this may 
explain the sharp rise in 2019.  Whilst projections  can be made,  there are no guarantees. 
Thats why at the point of sale Mr and Mrs D wouldve been given the yearly growth fund 
figures which determined  whether  (or not) the premiums she paid could maintain the level of 
cover or whether theyd need to increase it to pay for the increased cost of life cover.  
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions.  This is why I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D will have been  
told about the planned reviews. But at each review at the outset, the insurer also needs to 
make new assumptions about  the cost of cover  and investment performance in the future. I 
note they did increase  their premium over the years. 
Thats why its not always possible to predict  future premium increases with any degree  of 
accuracy. But not being able to predict future  premiums doesnt  mean  the policy  was mis-
sold. So whilst the cost of premiums might not have increased over the years, theres no 
guarantee that they wouldnt increase, or continue to increase in future. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholder  will be offered the choice of either paying a higher  
premium to maintain  the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. And this is whats happened with Mr and Mrs Ds policy  since  1993. Despite what 
they say the business isnt obliged to contact  them each  time to discuss  review options, 
instead thats done through  the review letters. 
However I note the insurer accepts  that in 2016 it didnt notify Mr and Mrs D of the correct 
premium increase they needed to pay in order to maintain the £100,000 level of cover. Ill 
refer back to this point in due course  below. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs D said they were (and werent)  told about the 
policy when it was arranged. But having considered everything they and the business have 
said, I dont think their comments  alone are enough for me to say the policy  was mis-sold. 
I must take into account the explanatory literature that the business  says they were given 
when the policy started. 
The product  literature that Mr and Mrs D were  provided are likely to have made  clear  that the 
policy was reviewable.  
Furthermore, I think by virtue of the review letters Mr and Mrs D knew  that the policy was 
subject to reviews, and that the level of cover  or premium wasnt guaranteed  but subject to 
the outcome of these reviews, in line with how these policies generally operate.
I note the insurer  accepts that in April 2016  it gave Mr and Mrs D an incorrect figure  for how 
much they needed  to increase their premiums by in order to maintain their sum assured. I 
note it has agreed to allow them to continue to pay the higher  premiums moving forward  
which has allowed them  to maintain the sum assured until January 2019. 
On balance, Im satisfied the policy allowed  the policy to do what  it was doing, and that the 
business didnt  mislead Mr and Mrs D about  how it would work. In other words, on balance 
Ref: DRN11902774Im satisfied that they were made aware that the policy was reviewable  and that the 
premiums were likely  to increase to maintain the level of cover  the wanted.  
 
In the circumstances Im unable to say the recommendation  was wrong or unsuitable, just 
because the premiums were likely to increase in order to maintain the sum assured. 
In other  words Im unable to say the business  has done anything  wrong  by asking Mr and 
Mrs D in 2019 to consider  increasing the monthly  premiums to £121.84 in order to maintain 
the sum assured, or maintain the same premium  but reduce the sum assured. 
I note Mr and Mrs D suggest  they wouldnt have taken a reviewable whole of life policy if 
they were told about the increasing premiums.   Whilst non-reviewable whole of life policies 
were likely to be available,  they were also likely to be significantly more  expensive from the 
outset. I think  its unlikely  that they wouldve  chosen a non-reviewable whole of life policy 
instead.
Im mindful of Mr and Mrs Ds points about the additional insurance they say they had at the 
time. Whilst  its difficult to know what was (and wasnt)  said about them at the time, I think 
they were there for different purposes, as opposed  to being multiple life cover  policies doing 
exactly the same thing. This suggests that any existing cover was likely to have been taken 
into account at the time.  
I note Mr and Mrs D say they had death  in service benefit, so shouldnt have been sold the 
policy. But their employee benefits were  only available so long as they were employed, 
whereas a whole  of life policy would continue as long as the premiums  were paid. 
Their mortgage  protection  policy is designed  to provide protection  for a mortgage, for the 
duration of the mortgage. And their CIC was designed to pay out upon  diagnosis of a 
specified critical illness it wasnt  designed to pay out on death. And none of their existing 
insurance policies  meant  the policy was mis-sold. Even if they had some existing life cover 
theres nothing wrong with wanting  more cover, as it would mean  leaving a greater lump sum 
to their family member(s).       
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs D in light of the possible future  unaffordable  
premium increases. But that said, they still have the option to reduce the sum assured and 
pay the same premium or increase the premium in order to maintain the same  sum assured.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want  to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded the business needs  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr and 
Mrs D what they want. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 December  2019.
Dara Islam
Ref: DRN11902775ombudsman
Ref: DRN1190277