K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he was charged  for Value Added Tax (VAT) twice when he purchased  a 
car with finance supplied  by Ford Retail Limited.
background
In February 2015  Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement.
Mr D says that when he looked at the car at the dealership  he was told by the salesman that 
VAT was included in the price shown on the car. Mr D initially  looked at a Titanium model 
which was advertised  for sale at £16,000. He subsequently  chose a Titanium X model.
Mr D says that hes been overcharged  for the car he chose. He says that the dealership 
added VAT onto a price  which  already  included  VAT.
In its final response,  Ford Retail  said that it had to show VAT as a separate item on all 
invoices. It said that the price of Mr Ds car (excluding VAT) was £15,532.51 and the VAT 
was £3106.49 making a total of £18,839.00
Mr D wasnt happy with Ford Retails response so he complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the model of car chosen  by Mr D 
was superior to the model  which Mr D had seen advertised at £16,000  inclusive of VAT and 
it was therefore  very unlikely that the superior model chosen by Mr D was £15,532.51  
inclusive of VAT. The investigator said she was satisfied  that Ford Retail  had charged the 
correct amount of VAT on the basic cost of Mr Ds car.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that the salesperson had told him that VAT was included  in the 
price of the car and because of this he felt that VAT should have been deducted when the 
dealership worked  out the basic cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the new vehicle invoice and the vehicle  order  form which were produced at the 
point of supply.  The order form shows the basic cost of the car (including any extras and 
discounts) without VAT. The VAT is added on to the basic  cost.  The basic  cost of Mr Ds car 
was £15,532.51 and the VAT was £3106.49 bringing  the total cost to £18,839.00.
I appreciate that Mr D looked at a different model  before choosing his car. The model which 
Mr D looked at in the showroom  cost £16,000.  Mr D has said that the salesman told him that 
this price included  VAT.
The dealership has said that all cars on display  in the showroom show a VAT inclusive price, 
but when a car is supplied the VAT has to be shown as a separate item on the invoice and 
order form.
It seems  more  likely  than not that Mr D looked at a Titanium model in the showroom which 
was advertised at a VAT inclusive price of £16,000. But this wasnt  the model which  Mr D 
Ref: DRN10745322ultimately chose. He chose a Titanium  X. The model chosen by Mr D wasnt  on display in the 
showroom so Mr D hadnt seen the VAT inclusive price for the Titanium  X. 
Based on the information Ive seen, a Titanium X is a superior model to a Titanium and is 
therefore more  expensive. If the Titanium X had been on display in the showroom, Im 
satisfied that it would have been  displayed with a VAT inclusive price which was significantly 
more than the VAT inclusive price of the Titanium model  which  was £16,000.
Taking all of the available information  into account  Im satisfied that the basic cost of the 
Titanium X model (including  extras chosen  by Mr D) was £15,641.67. Im also satisfied that 
VAT of £3,106.49  was correctly charged  on the basic  cost.  For the reasons  Ive explained I 
wont be asking Ford Retail to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1074532