K820x#14Complaint
Ms B complains  that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it increased her credit  
limit whilst she was in an IVA. 
Background
Ms B has told us she was party to an IVA between 2011 and 2016. In November 2012 Ms B 
opened a credit card with Vanquis with a credit limit of £250. 
In November 2013 the credit limit was increased to £1,000. In June 2014  the credit  limit went  
up to £2,000. In May 2015 it increased  by £500 to £2500 and in June 2016 the credit limit 
went up to £3,000. 
In 2018 Ms B had some difficulties maintaining  her regular  payment and agreed a repayment 
plan with Vanquis. Ms B later complained that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly, especially 
considering she was party to an IVA during this period. 
Vanquis responded on 6 February 2019 but didnt  uphold Ms Bs complaint. Vanquis said it 
had completed credit  searches and looked  at the available  information before  deciding 
whether to proceed and that Ms Bs credit  limit increases appeared  affordable. Ms B referred 
her complaint to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator.  He said we could only look 
back six years which  meant we can only consider Vanquis actions from February  2013  
onwards. The adjudicator  didnt agree that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly and didnt  uphold  
the complaint.  Ms B asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator has already explained, were only able to look back  over the six years 
before the complaint was raised which takes  us to February 2013. I can see the adjudicator  
has discussed this with Ms B over the phone. My decision is about the events that happened 
after February 2013. 
Ms Bs credit  limit was increased four times during this period, from an initial  £250 to £3,000  
in June 2016. Vanquis says it took a range  of information into account  on each occasion 
before deciding to proceed.  Ive looked at the information Vanquis  had on file. 
Ms B has told us she was in an IVA from 2011 to 2016 and feels that should have influenced  
Vanquis decision. Vanquis  says not all IVAs are reported on a consumers credit file and 
that when it carried  out credit  searches  against  Ms B none were found. Vanquis  says that it 
did find a County Court Judgement (CCJ)  against Ms B when it was looking at the final credit 
limit increase in June  2016 but that it was historic  in nature and didnt mean the credit  limit 
couldnt go up. 
Ref: DRN17935602I think IVAs are generally reported  on a credit file so I dont know why Ms Bs wasnt picked 
up by Vanquis.  But Ive seen the credit  search results Vanquis got and they dont show Ms B 
was party  to an IVA. The credit report does show a CCJ was picked up when it completed a 
credit search in November 2013.  But the CCJ was around 29 months old at that point. Ms B 
says thats her IVA, but Im satisfied  the information Vanquis had available  said it was a 
CCJ. 
Vanquis says it will lend to customers who have experienced  some credit issues  in the past 
and that the CCJ it found wasnt recent. As a result, it says the credit limit increase from 
£250 to £1,000 in November 2013 met its lending criteria and Im satisfied thats the case.  
After the November 2013 credit search,  theres no trace of an IVA or CCJ on the information 
Vanquis obtained. 
Ive looked at each of Ms Bs credit limit increases but I havent been  persuaded Vanquis 
lent irresponsibly. I can see that Ms B often  paid more than her minimum payment. In 
addition, the credit searches Vanquis completed found Ms B had other credit but, based on 
the income she declared in the original  application, felt the increases were affordable. 
Vanquis says it takes some adverse credit into account and that Ms Bs limit increases were  
correctly approved. 
I havent found that Vanquis was aware  she was party to an IVA. Ive looked at the 
information Vanquis had available when  it looked at Ms Bs credit  limit and I think its decision 
to proceed was reasonable. Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis completed proportionate  checks  to 
ensure the borrowing was sustainable based  on what it knew. 
Ms B experienced financial difficulties in 2018  and Vanquis agreed to accept a reduced  
payment of £5 a month. Businesses should  be positive and sympathetic to a borrowers  
financial difficulties. I think Vanquis  has treated Ms B fairly by agreeing  to a payment 
arrangement. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms B but I havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint. Im 
satisfied Vanquis completed  proportionate  checks to ensure the credit  limit increases were  
sustainable. I think its decision  to proceed was reasonable based  on the information it had. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1793560