K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that his claim for serious  water  damage to his property was declined as he 
didnt have cover for escape of water. He believes that the policy was mis-sold to him by 
Deeside Insurance Brokers Ltd as he wasnt properly advised of the restriction in cover due 
to his property  being  unoccupied.
background
In January 2018 Mr C took out a policy online  through Deeside. When he answered  the 
questions on the proposal form he declared  that the property was occupied  as his main 
residence but that it was left regularly unattended outside working hours. He was intending 
to occupy it at some  point  but was having building work done. This meant that an 
endorsement applied  to his policy that cover was restricted  to fire and resultant smoke 
damage, lightning,  explosion  or earthquake (FLEE) only. 
In March 2018 Mr Cs property was damaged by water from a burst  pipe. He made a claim to 
the insurer who declined  to pay the claim as escape  of water wasnt covered. He said this 
hadnt been drawn to his attention.
Mr C contends that if he had been  specifically told about the limitation in cover he would 
have purchased a policy  that did give him the cover he required. He contended that he had 
been mis-sold a policy and that his claim should  be paid.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately found that the policy  endorsement 
hadnt been properly highlighted to Mr C. So she said that Deeside should pay what the 
insurer would have  paid,  had the claim been accepted.
Deeside didnt accept  this. It said it was a non-advised  sale through  an online portal, and 
that at every  stage Mr Cs attention was drawn  to the policy  documents. It said that Mr C 
wasnt able to buy the policy without ticking a box which  said he had read and understood 
the endorsement information. This had a link where he could read the endorsements, and on 
page one the FLEE cover was noted.  It also said Mr C had to sign a comprehensive 
declaration saying the documents  were correct and that he had read and understood all 
significant exclusions of the policy. It pointed out that the exclusions for unoccupied property 
were set out at several places in the policy.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, explaining  why I proposed not to uphold Mr Cs complaint, as 
follows:
The policy  here was sold to Mr C after he completed a proposal form on a price  comparison 
website which then took him to Deesides own website where he completed  a further form. 
To the question Is the property  occupied by you and your family as a permanent  
residence? he answered yes. Then  to the question Is the property left regularly 
unattended (other than normal working hours)? he answered no. Finally to the question  
Maximum number of days unoccupied?  , he answered Permanent. As he had no further 
contact with Deeside before going  ahead and buying the policy  this presumably triggered the 
system to apply the FLEE endorsement.
Ref: DRN10142002As the policy was sold non-advised, Deesides obligation was to make sure that Mr C  was 
given enough  information to make  an informed choice about whether the policy was right for 
him. And particularly that he was informed about  any unusual or onerous parts  of the 
insurance policy that he might not otherwise have expected to be there.  I would say it was 
unusual generally  for there to be such restricted cover and puts a substantial obligation on 
the policyholder  to make sure their property is protected. I think  consequently that it should  
have been clearly drawn to Mr Cs attention.
When Mr C bought the policy he was asked to tick a box which said he had read and 
understood the endorsement information. Next to that was a link for him to view the 
endorsements. But that then opened  a 15 page document  which set out not only the two 
FLEE endorsements (buildings and contents) but all the other special  endorsements which  
might apply to second homes, let properties or where the home is used  for business 
purposes, or various  excesses that might apply.  The document  doesnt make  it clear what 
endorsements applied  to Mr Cs property, and it might have been more  appropriate for the 
link to refer to just the applicable endorsements. .So I dont think  this was sufficient  to 
highlight or make clear  the FLEE endorsement  that specifically applied to Mr Cs cover.
Deeside says that Mr C signed a comprehensive declaration. That document required Mr C 
to confirm, amongst  other things, that
1 The details  stated  on his Schedule and / or Certificate of Insurance  were correct.
and
5. He had read and understood the significant exclusions of his policy as outlined in the Key
Facts document  from his insurer.
On page 3 of the schedule the following  are set out:
Applicable Endorsements
003a Restriction of cover  Buildings Cover under Buildings is restricted  to number 1 of 
Section 1 - Buildings - Standard cover, fire and resultant smoke damage,  lightning,
explosion or earthquake only.
031a  Weekly Inspection
002a Restriction of cover   Contents [FLEE cover as above]
I dont think that merely  asking Mr C to confirm the whole document was correct, was 
adequate to highlight the endorsements. These are on page three and there were several 
pages of documents to consider. So for D to bring  this significant (onerous) endorsement to 
Mr Cs attention it needed to do more than just tell him to read everything.
But Mr C told us that he had understood that he had to make weekly inspections.  But that he 
thought that standard  cover applied for Buildings. This is despite the fact that in the 
insurance schedule  the restricted cover  is set out immediately above  the weekly  inspection 
endorsement. I think the fact that he understood the need for a weekly inspection must have 
also meant that he had read the endorsement  immediately above  it. 
Deeside isnt responsible for the wording of the endorsement. And I think Mr C was aware of 
the FLEE cover because  of where  it appears in the schedule. He further told us that:
 ..the effect of endorsement  no 002a and 003a  (as explained subsequently to me by the 
insurer) is to severely limit the scope of the cover available. This was not understood by me 
Ref: DRN10142003at the time. This endorsement seems to be an unfair addition to the terms of the insurance 
policy and contrary to the requirements  of good faith. 
So I think Mr C was aware of the endorsements  but for whatever reason didnt understand 
their full effect. I dont  think that was Deesides responsibility. As Ive noted, he didnt  contact 
Deeside before  completing  the purchase  of the policy, so it wouldnt have had an opportunity  
to explain any terms further.  I understand also that Mr C is a professional  person  who might 
have been expected to know  of the importance of reading through and understanding 
contract documents. 
.
Mr C also pointed out that the schedule  says that the excess for escape of water  was £500, 
thus implying that cover for that applied. I agree that that is a little confusing. Deeside says 
thats because  the schedule is a generic  one. But the schedule itself wasnt drawn up by 
Deeside. Its obligation was to highlight  any unusual parts of the policy.  
As for the key facts  document  I dont believe that highlighted the endorsements  or significant 
exclusions in the policy. As I said above,  its not sufficient, in my view,  when there  is a 
significant restriction to cover,  to say heres the policy  for you to read through.
If an exclusion/endorsement isnt sufficiently drawn  to the attention  of the buyer of the policy,  
I can require the broker to pay compensation equivalent to what the insurer  might  have paid, 
had the consumer been able to buy a policy with relevant cover.  But here I wont  do so, as I 
think Mr C ought to have  been sufficiently aware  of the restricted  cover on his policy.
My conclusion is provisionally that whilst  I think Deeside failed to draw  the endorsement to 
Mr Cs attention as it should have done, this didnt prejudice Mr C because  he found the 
endorsement anyway.  And I dont  think  that Deeside is responsible  for Mr C then 
misunderstanding that term and how it impacted the level of cover that he had. Therefore, I 
wont require Deeside to do anything. It might consider  though whether its online process is 
robust enough.
Deeside responded and said the Key Facts document highlighted the restricted  cover for 
unoccupied properties. It also pointed out that, in the link to the endorsements which  brings 
up the15 page document listing all the possible endorsements, the FLEE exclusions are set 
out on page one.
Mr C didnt accept my decision. He said that he was careful about completing the form and 
specifically said the property was unoccupied. He said the endorsement wasnt drawn  to his 
attention or explained properly. He had understood  it to mean he had standard insurance 
cover especially as the policy schedule referred to escape of water, He further said he was 
never asked  to tick the box saying he had read and understood the endorsement 
information, nor saw the document listing those endorsements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I dont think the Key Facts document is sufficient to highlight  that only the FLEE  
cover applied. It does draw attention to the exclusion  for escape of water,  that Excludes loss 
or damage  whilst the Home is Unoccupied  (unless otherwise stated in Your Schedule). But 
Mr Cs point is that, referring to the schedule, he thought Standard cover applied.  As for the 
Ref: DRN10142004link to the endorsements, I think that Deeside  should  seriously  consider whether its online  
procedures are sufficient. If I saw such a link in an application, I would expect  it to take me to 
the endorsements that applied to the policy I was buying, not just a general  list of 
endorsements with no indication as to what did or didnt apply.
But I have to consider  what  influenced Mr C to purchase the policy in question. He says he 
understood the wording of the endorsement  to imply that he had standard cover . And that 
The wording of the documentation received by me was not clear and was contradictory  in 
places  and the extent of the restriction  only became  apparent when I sought to rely on the 
policy.
But, as Ive said, Deeside didnt draw up the policy documents. I understand Mr Cs 
points to be that the FLEE endorsement  includes the words  Standard Cover and that 
the policy schedule  implies that escape of water  is covered because it refers  to the £500 
excess. So I still think he was aware  of, but may have  misunderstood  the policy cover.  
Since he didnt ask Deeside for any further explanation before buying the policy, I dont 
think it mis-sold  the policy, so isnt liable to pay his claim.
I wont make  a finding concerning whether Mr C did or didnt see the box asking him to 
confirm hed understood the endorsement information. I dont think, as Ive said that it 
was sufficient anyway.
I havent altered  my views  and confirm that my provisional findings,  as set out above 
now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1014200