K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent him money that he couldnt  afford  to 
repay.
background
Mr W took out two loans with Uncle Buck in September  2017  and December 2017.  He was 
due to repay each  loan in three  instalments.
Mr W says Uncle Buck was irresponsible to agree to lend to him as he was struggling 
financially at the time.  He wants Uncle  Buck  to pay him compensation.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld.  He thought that Uncle Buck 
carried out adequate checks but it didnt properly take account of those checks before 
agreeing to lend.  He thought that based on the information Uncle Buck  had about  Mr W, it 
should have asked more questions about Mr Ws credit commitments based on the credit file 
search and the information given by Mr W. He thought that if it had asked further  questions  it 
would have seen  that Mr W couldnt afford to sustainably repay either loan.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree and said in summary that the information  it had gathered  suggested 
that Mr W had repaid his short term loans and would be able to afford the repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr W could  repay any money that it lent to him. Any 
checks had to be proportionate to things  such as the amount of the loan, the repayments 
and any borrowing history. But there  wasnt  a set list of checks  it had to carry out.
Uncle Buck  expected Mr W to repay each loan over three instalments and so the monthly 
repayments were lower than a payday  loan. He hadnt borrowed from Uncle Buck  before so 
it didnt have any lending  history to take into account for the first loan. 
Uncle Buck  asked Mr W about his outgoings,  including any credit commitments and it carried 
out a credit check.  Mr Ws first loan was for £500 and the repayments represented a very 
modest proportion of his declared monthly income  of £2500.  Mr W said his outgoings  were  
£1000.
Ordinarily I would have  said that this was enough and that it was reasonable of Uncle Buck 
to agree to lend.  However, Uncle Buck gave us a copy  of the credit check  that it carried out 
when Mr W applied for the loan. 
I had a close look at the results  of the credit  search. They  were  extremely difficult  to follow 
and not in a format that is easy to understand. But Mr W has provided a copy  of his credit  
report from the same agency that Uncle Buck used to carry out the credit  check.  So, I have 
looked at the information  in both to build  up a picture of what  Uncle  Buck would have  seen. 
Uncle Buck  has recorded that Mr Ws credit  commitments  had increased  by around £6,388 
in the three  months before the application and £19,995 in the 12 months before the 
application. The credit  search shows that Mr W had £32,052 outstanding in unsecured debt. 
Ref: DRN11479922Mr W told Uncle Buck his normal  monthly  credit commitments were £300  for store  and credit  
cards and £100 for other  credit.
I think that Uncle Buck had enough information  to realise that Mr W mustve  owed more to 
creditors than hed disclosed. Some of the other  loans had fairly short  repayment  terms 
which might  indicate  that they were short term or instalment loans. I think it was 
proportionate to expect Uncle Buck to act on this information and find out more  about Mr Ws 
other debts.  There was enough information  on the credit report  that Uncle Buck  gave to us to 
suggest that Mr W was due to make  fairly  significant  monthly  payments to other  creditors.  I 
consider that Uncle Buck  shouldve acted  on this information rather than rely on what Mr W 
told it about his finances.
If Uncle Buck had tried to verify Mr Ws other  regular  and short  term lending  credit 
commitments it seemed likely that it wouldve discovered that Mr W was repaying several 
short term lenders  around  £1351, at the same time as the instalment was due. By adding the 
other short term lending  commitments to Mr Ws declared outgoings of £900, (allowing for 
the £100 declared) he wouldve been left with around £249 of disposable income. This 
wasnt enough to sustainably afford  to repay  the loan to Uncle  Buck as he would have been 
left with only £7.86 to live on.
The position  is the same  for loan 2, except  by this point Mr Ws borrowing with short  term 
lenders had increased further and he didnt  have enough money to repay the instalment  as 
he had no disposable  income. The fact is that Mr W couldnt afford  to repay  Uncle Buck  
without borrowing elsewhere. With better  checks,  I dont think Uncle Buck  wouldve agreed 
to lend.
Mr W has lost out so Uncle Buck should  pay him compensation. As hes had the benefit of 
the money lent, it is only fair that Mr W should pay it back but all interest and charges should 
be refunded and Mr Ws credit file amended to remove any negative information.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges Mr W paid on the loans;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about the loans from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to take the 
steps outlined  above.
Ref: DRN11479923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1147992