K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the balance on his Marbles credit  card and about the lack of 
communication from NewDay Ltd about his account  over a number of years.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out I concluded  that with the exception of its handling of Mr Cs complaint, 
NewDay hadnt done anything materially wrong  in operating his account. And I considered 
that NewDays offer of £100 compensation for its service shortcomings in dealing with Mr Cs 
complaint, to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I invited Mr C and NewDay to let me have  any further evidence and arguments  they wanted  me 
to consider before making my final decision. Both parties responded to the provisional  decision.
Mr C said he believed the matter had now gone on long enough and that he had in any 
event paid off his outstanding balance in November 2019.
NewDay said that as my provisional findings  mirrored the offer it had already made it had 
nothing further  to add.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require NewDay  Ltd to pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19748652copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that he cant possibly owe more than £800 on his Marbles credit  card as he has made 
regular direct  debit repayments totalling in excess of £3,000 since December 2013 when his balance 
was then only £800.
He also complains  that he heard nothing from NewDay after 2013 until he contacted them  in 2019 to 
find out why he still had an outstanding balance. He says that NewDay was very unhelpful,  and told 
him that although his card had expired  he still owed  money. He then complained  to NewDay and 
stopped his direct debit  repayments for some months resulting in arrears markers on his credit file.
background
Mr C has said he has had no correspondence  about his Marbles card since December 2013. He says 
that although he spent  periods working away from home, his main UK residence remained the same 
until 2016. He says hes always informed NewDay of address changes and, of note, when he wrote to 
the business in 2016 saying that he would be moving  that letter was returned as undeliverable.
In 2019, and as part of his retirement planning, Mr C checked his finances and was astonished to find 
that he was still making monthly direct debt repayments to his Marbles credit card that had expired 
years previously. He obtained bank statements  and calculated hed repaid over £3,000 since 
December 2013 when his balance  was some £800. He therefore  contacted  NewDay and finding  the 
business very unhelpful, submitted a complaint.
Initially NewDay was unable to record Mr Cs complaint because hed quoted an incorrect account  
number and hadnt provided his address. Mr C replied but still didnt provide  the necessary  details and 
so NewDay closed its file. But when, a short time later Mr C supplied the required information, 
NewDay failed to link this to Mr Cs previous  correspondence  and instead set up a new complaint 
However, it then didnt  provide a substantive response to Mr C and so he complained to us.
In summary our investigator concluded that Mr C owed  the money claimed by NewDay.  But he 
thought that NewDay should have done more to trace Mr C once it knew that the address it held for 
him was wrong.  Our investigator also said that he believed that if Mr C had been receiving  statements 
he wouldnt have continued making  only minimum repayments  for so long, and more  likely  than not 
would have repaid his balance in full some time ago. Our investigator therefore recommended that 
NewDay clear any arrears charges and markers  on Mr Cs credit file resulting  from his cancelled 
direct debit. This action  should be additional to the business paying Mr C the £100 it had recently 
offered for the poor handling  of his complaint.
Mr C wasnt  happy with this outcome mainly  because he remained  unconvinced about  the accuracy of 
the claimed outstanding balance on his account. And NewDay also didnt accept  the investigators 
findings because it thought he had no sustainable basis for his conclusion that Mr C would  have 
repaid his balance sooner  if he had received statements. NewDay also doubted whether  Mr C had 
notified it of his address  changes.
The complaint has therefore  been referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint falls broadly into the following  two main areas: the accuracy  of his balance; and the 
absence of communication from NewDay over a number  of years.
Ref: DRN19748653Turning to the first of these, Mr C believes he cant possibly still owe around £800  when he owed that 
amount in December 2013 and has repaid more  than £3,000  since then. In support  he also cites the 
very large variability in his repayments some months, which he says shouldnt have happened given  
that he wasnt  using his Marbles card. In particular  he points to the minimum  repayment being  £5.25  
in May 2015  only for it then to rise to £32.21 in July 2015 without any intervening card spending.
Unfortunately, Mr Cs recall  of the amount he owed  in December 2013 is inaccurate as his statement 
shows his outstanding balance that month as being £1,535.66. His November balance was 
£1,551.05, interest (APR  38.9%) was £41.76 and he repaid £57.15. And so it is clear from this that 
Mr Cs debt was reducing very slowly  and it is therefore  entirely understandable why, some six years 
later, he still had a significant outstanding  balance.
Mr C has pointed to the unexplained variability in his monthly repayments in support  of his belief that 
NewDays calculation of his outstanding balance must  be incorrect.  I have looked  at his statements  
for the months he has mentioned and can see that in April 2015, in addition to his £45.47 repayment,  
NewDay also credited a PPI cheque to his account  for £1,033.53. As a result the outstanding balance 
carried through to his May statement was only around £235 when  it would  otherwise have been 
almost £1,300. Consequently his May repayment was much reduced at just over £5.00. But NewDay 
appears to have made an error in crediting  the PPI cheque to Mr C because  it deducted it again  in 
June 2015 and noted on that statement  that it had been paid in error. As a result  Mr Cs balance  
and repayments - returned to their expected levels.
I can fully understand  Mr Cs concern about  what happened here, and his subsequent lack of 
confidence in any of NewDays calculations. NewDay hasnt explained  why it made  the error  it did, but 
I am satisfied  that having  rectified  it Mr Cs account properly reflected the amount he still owed. And in 
fact Mr C was marginally advantaged by the error as his balance was erroneously low for some 
months, which resulted in interest charges being lower than they should  have been. Mr C continues to 
believe that he doesnt  owe the sum claimed by NewDay,  but having  looked  at his statements  I am 
satisfied that he does.
Mr C has also complained  about the lack of communication from NewDay since 2013. He said that up 
until 2016 his permanent UK address  hadnt changed, and so he should have received all statements 
and other  account notifications at least until then. Mr C says his 2016 change  of address  letter was 
returned undelivered because the business had changed its name  and moved. And he says that as 
he was unable to find a new address he took no further action until he realised in 2019 that he was 
still repaying a debt he believed had been repaid years  previously.
For its part NewDay has said that Mr C opened his account in 2001 when it was administered by 
HSBC. This transferred to Lloyds in 2009, then to SAV Credit in 2012,  which re-branded to NewDay in 
2014. NewDay has said that even if Mr C hadnt  received the formal notifications sent to him about 
these changes,  the changes  of name should  have  been  apparent on his bank statements  as his 
repayments were by direct  debit.
NewDay says Mr C originally  had a Nottingham address, which changed to a BFPO address in 2012 
before reverting  to the Nottingham address  in early 2014. NewDay has said that in May 2014 
correspondence it had sent to the Nottingham address was returned. It therefore placed a hold on 
Mr Cs account,  which prevented all further correspondence  including account statements  - from 
being sent to him. However NewDay continued to send notifications required by regulation  to Mr Cs 
last known  address.
In response to our investigators view that the business should have done more to trace  Mr C, 
NewDay has said that the onus is on the customer to notify it of address changes, that Mr C 
continued to make the required monthly repayments and so it didnt need to trace him, and that if it 
had instigated  a trace it would have charged Mr C.
Ref: DRN19748654The key dates  here appear to be that Mr C has said he didnt receive any account correspondence 
after 2013 and that he tried unsuccessfully to notify a change of address in 2016; and NewDay says it 
stopped sending him statements  in 2014. Contractually, Mr C was required to maintain  his minimum 
repayments, which he did, and to inform  NewDay  of any change of address. He should  have been 
aware from 2013 that he was no longer receiving statements and he appears to have been content for 
that situation to continue until 2019,  although I recognise that he tried unsuccessfully  to contact 
NewDay in 2016. And Mr C should also have known  from his bank statements  that he was still 
repaying his debt for all of those years  despite his belief that it had been fully repaid.  I recognise that 
Mr C says that he often worked away from home for long periods with his wife having oversight of his 
affairs whilst he was away. But that notwithstanding it remained his responsibility to manage his
account.
I have looked at what  financial  detriment, if any, the lack of correspondence from NewDay has caused 
Mr C and my conclusion  is that it hasnt. I say this because  from the information I have I cannot  
reasonably conclude that had Mr C been  receiving  statements he would either have increased the 
level of his repayments or repaid his debt in full.
With respect to the arrears markers on Mr Cs credit file, it is unfortunate that he decided  to stop his 
repayments when he contacted  NewDay in 2019.  Mr C was contractually required to repay the money 
he owed the business  and when he broke that contract by stopping  his repayments NewDay was 
entitled to record each missed payment on his credit file. I shall not therefore  require  NewDay to 
amend Mr Cs file.
NewDay has acknowledged that it didnt  deal with Mr Cs initial complaint  as well as it should  have 
done and offered  him £100 compensation. This seems to me reasonable recompense for its 
unsatisfactory customer service.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  - subject to anything I receive  from the parties  by 13 March 2020 - is that 
NewDay Ltd should pay Mr C £100.
Ref: DRN1974865