K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003 during a meeting.  Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. I cant be sure what was said at the time Mr B applied for his credit  card 
and PPI but Halifax has provided  a copy of the application form that was completed.  
The application form was completed with selections  made on it before it was printed. One of 
the options selected was for PPI. The form was then signed by Mr B. I think  the selections 
made on the form are likely to have  been the result of a conversation  had between  Mr B and 
a Halifax representative  at the time. Mr B was also agreeing to an important financial 
commitment so I would  have expected him to read the form and have asked any questions  
he may have had before signing in agreement with it. So I think Halifax made it clear that 
Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr B has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer when he applied for the 
PPI and could  have relied on his wife to help make  his repayments. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay, and for longer.  While  Mr Bs wife would have wanted 
to help her ability  to do so would have  been  dependent on her circumstance at the time, 
which could have changed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN11129022If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1112902