K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited didnt give him 
information about mileage charges when he called for emergency assistance. He said if it 
did, he wouldnt have paid for the emergency call out. 
background
Mr T broke down about 200 miles away from home  and called AA for emergency assistance. 
Mr T had a good idea as to the cause  of the breakdown and asked if he could be recovered 
to his home address. The agent  said this could only be discussed with the patrol  agent once 
theyd attended  and diagnosed the fault. Mr T decided to buy the basic  level of emergency 
cover. 
The patrol agent attended. He told Mr T hed need to pay £360 to upgrade his cover  for 
recovery to his home address. This included a mileage surcharge fee. 
Mr T thought this was too high and so he didnt take up the offer. Mr T complained to AA. He 
said if it had given him an idea of the likely recovery costs, he wouldnt have  paid for 
emergency assistance that day. Mr T wanted  a refund and for his policy  to be cancelled.
Our adjudicator listened to the recording of the key call. She thought  the agent had been  
clear with Mr T more than once that she could only sell Mr T basic  cover - and that the patrol  
agent would  discuss  any upgrades once  theyd attended and diagnosed the fault. As Mr T 
agreed to pay for emergency cover knowing this information, she thought AA had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He believes AA should  have discussed its mileage  surcharge  in the initial  
call. So the case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr T feels AA should  have given an outline as to the potential costs for all call 
out outcomes  when  he called for emergency  assistance. He says without  this, he wasnt able 
to make an informed decision before paying  for basic emergency cover. 
But I think Mr T was made aware  that until a patrol agent attended and diagnosed  a fault, AA 
couldnt discuss the option to upgrade  his policy to include recovery  to his home address. AA 
said this was something the patrol  agent would discuss with Mr T depending  on the outcome 
of his attendance. 
In Mr Ts situation I can see that it would  have been ideal to give him an indication  of 
mileage costs for recovery home  if he upgraded his cover.  But I dont think it was for AA to 
explain all possible charges depending  on any number  of outcomes. I think  the agent was 
clear with Mr T about the process in these circumstances - and on this basis  Mr T decided to 
pay for basic emergency cover rather than shop around,  which  was his choice. Mr T 
received the benefit of a patrol agents attendance in line with the level of cover he paid for, 
so I dont think hes entitled to a refund.
Ref: DRN16332472I understand Mr T will be disappointed. But I dont think AA acted unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020..
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1633247