K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain they were mis-sold an Individual Savings Account (ISA), and life 
and critical illness cover (CIC), by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide), when they took 
out a mortgage in 2007.  
They feel they were  pressured into taking out these products and didnt need  them.  
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Mr M and Miss M had a financial  review during which their financial needs were 
discussed. 
The mortgage offer letter dated November 2007  made clear that only buildings 
insurance was a condition of their mortgage.  
Other than buildings  insurance, the other products were optional, and this was made 
clear in the documentation provided. 
Mr M and Miss M were also under no obligation to take out any of the insurance 
products with Nationwide.  
Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance (PPI) has been  dealt with separately so 
wont be considered  as part of this complaint. 
It was recorded  that they wanted  to save £50 a month to obtain higher returns  and 
were prepared  to take a medium  risk with their money. Ms M chose  to invest  less.  
Just because Mr M and Miss M cancelled their CIC policy in 2008,  and the term 
assurance policy in 2009, doesnt  mean  that Nationwide was wrong not to question 
them.  
Mr M and Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  view. They  maintain the products were 
mis-sold. In summary, Mr M said:
They were told life cover was a condition of their mortgage. 
They didnt need buildings insurance  as this was paid to the land owner yearly. 
They want to know if the adviser   they subsequently met  thought they had been  
mis-sold the products. 
They want to know if anyone else has lodged similar complaints to them against 
Nationwide.  
They feel like theyve been  treated unfairly as first time buyers.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr M and Miss M say Im not 
persuaded the products  recommended  were  mis-sold or unsuitable.  
Ref: DRN18520782But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mr M and Miss Ms 
frustration and strength  of feeling  about  this matter. Theyve provided detailed  submissions 
to support the complaint,  which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and Nationwide, and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. In deciding  whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account  the relevant law, regulation  and best industry practice,  
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,  based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I note the PPI complaint has been considered separately so isnt the subject of this 
complaint. This complaint  only concerns the life and CIC plans, the term assurance and the 
ISA. 
On balance Im satisfied that the recommendations overall met Mr M and Miss Ms need. Im 
not aware that they had any existing  mortgage  cover or life and CIC cover  in place at the 
time. Even if they did, this of itself doesnt  mean the recommendation wouldve been 
unsuitable. It seems to me that the benefits  covered different aspects of insurance rather  
than a simple duplication  of cover  that they may have  already had.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr M and Miss M now say, I think  
its more likely (than not) they wanted all the cover in 2007,  at the time of taking out the 
mortgage, providing themselves with comprehensive protection.  I note they were under no 
obligation to accept any of the recommendations. 
Theres usually nothing  wrong with wanting or advising greater cover  it generally means 
greater protection  and pay out in the event of a valid claim within  the term of the plans, and 
potentially more money for their beneficiaries (and each other) in the event one of them died,  
fell ill, or was diagnosed with a specified critical illness. I note for example in this instance  Mr 
M and Miss M wanted a lump sum equal to three  times their annual  salaries  before  their 
retirement age. 
I note some of Mr M and Miss Ms financial priorities were recorded  in the fact find as 
financial security in the event of death, provision for income during sickness, provision for 
income during  disability,  and saving/investing for the future. 
I also note these were all recorded as very important which means these were areas they 
wished to address  at the time rather than leave for a time in the future. In the circumstances 
I think the recommendations met their needs. Including Mr M and Miss Ms need  to maintain 
their standard of living if one of them died, fell ill, or was diagnosed with a critical illness. 
The term assurance with CIC matched the term and amount of Mr M and Miss Ms mortgage 
and in the event of a valid claim  if one of them  died or was diagnosed with a specified 
critical illness within the term of the plan  it would pay out a lump sum, to cover the balance 
of their mortgage. Even though they subsequently cancelled  this policy,  Im unable  to say 
that it was mis-sold. 
I note Miss M was recommended  to take out £257,000  worth  of life cover,  at a cost of 
£48.29, for a period  of 34 years,  and Mr M was recommended £204,120 worth of cover at a 
Ref: DRN18520783cost of £68.39  a month, for a term of 27 years. Over the same  period they were  as also 
recommended CIC. Miss M was recommended £99,291 worth of CIC cover at a further  cost 
of £75.72 and Mr M was recommended  £71,691 worth of cover at a cost of £79.77.  I 
understand the level of cover was recommended as a result of the shortfall calculator, and in 
the event of a valid claim - death or diagnosis with specified critical illness  the policies 
were likely to pay out. 
I note it was recorded that Mr M and Miss M wanted  life and CIC over and above the 
mortgage to assist general living  expenses. I also note that they were  sold separate cover to 
ensure that in the event  of a claim the other  persons cover would continue. And it was 
something Mr M and Miss M requested.  In my opinion it makes  sense if they had different 
earnings, different  retirement ages and it was something they wanted. 
Mr M and Miss M were  also recommended Income protection  with a monthly cost of £54.85  
and £30.63, respectively. This was in relation to their inability to work and wasnt  covered by 
the other policies they were recommended. I note Mr M and Miss M were employed by the 
Metropolitan police service, they had six months sick pay and some  life cover (covering 
twice their salary). I note Nationwide says this was taken into consideration when making  the 
recommendation. 
The recommendation to save £50 a month  in stocks and shares ISA for a period of five 
years wasnt  unsuitable  given their objective for capital growth. They  were  also aware, or 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware, that the investment could make as well as lose 
money.  Im satisfied it met their objective to invest money for the future. It is unfortunate  that 
it was at the beginning of one of the worst global financial crises. That notwithstanding,  the 
ISA generally was a tax efficient investment made  in line with their objective to potentially 
achieve a greater growth than a deposit account. Miss M decided to invest  £20 a month 
unlike Mr M. 
Mr M and Miss M might feel that they didnt have a proper assessment of their finances and 
if they had, it wouldve  been clear that these plans were going to be unaffordable  for them.  
But I dont think thats necessarily correct as I dont think  that the affordability issues  
subsequently experienced by them, is something  that Nationwide couldve foreseen  at the 
time. It only offered advice on the basis of the information provided and on the basis of what 
they wanted and needed. 
Im mindful of what Mr M and Miss M say about pressure to take out these products but 
other than what they say, Ive seen no evidence that they were pressured into thinking that 
the recommendations were a condition of their mortgage.
Its possible that they were strongly  advised to protect themselves in the event of one or both 
of them  dying, falling ill or being diagnosed  with a specified critical illness.  Even if they were,  
I dont think this means these products were mis-sold. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that they 
were told these products,  other than the buildings insurance, were a condition  of their 
mortgage.   
I note in relation  to the life cover, it was recoded:
to protect  your family, you should consider, obtaining life assurance  cover to repay you loan 
should you die before  the end of the tem.    
And in relation to the mortgage offer, it was recorded as follows:
Ref: DRN18520784Insurance you must take out as a condition of this mortgage but that you do not have to 
take out through Nationwide Buildings  Insurance. 
So, despite  what Mr M says about  not needing buildings  insurance,  it was clearly a condition 
imposed by the lender.  It was a criterion that they had to fulfil before they could be lent this 
money. 
On balance I dont  think Nationwide  was under a duty to question why Mr M and Miss M had 
cancelled their CIC and term assurance in 2008  and 2009  respectively. Nationwide  had no 
ongoing responsibility to review the advice it had given originally. It was a matter for them 
that this left them without cover, not for Nationwide.
It might be that a subsequent adviser was concerned why Mr M and Miss M had been 
recommended these products, but that doesnt  mean they were mis-sold. Regardless of 
what the subsequent adviser may or may not have been thinking at the time, I note he didnt 
say the plans or the ISA were mis-sold  or unsuitable.
I appreciate Mr M and Miss M will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1852078