K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the delays caused  by ReAssure Limited  in setting up his annuity, 
which he says led to him missing out on payments and receiving a different annuity  rate.
background
Under the Guaranteed Minimum Pension  (GMP) he had with ReAssure, Mr T had an option 
to set up an annual  annuity (income) amount of £4,808 equalling monthly  payments of £400. 
This income  would remain level for the rest of his life. Mr T returned  the relevant  application  
form to ReAssure in February  2018.
Mr T was expecting  the first payment  to begin  from his retirement date of 3 January 2018. 
But the date the first payment actually  began was on 27 February 2018. By this time, the 
GMP had changed  with an increase of £48 to £4,856 per year and monthly (annuity) 
payments increasing  to £404. ReAssure finalised the annuity in April with payments set to be 
paid on the 27th of each  month. ReAssure arranged for backdated payments for February  
and March. Mr T received  a total of £809  on 17 April for these two months.
Mr T complained to ReAssure. He was unhappy the annuity hadnt started on his initial  
nominated retirement  date of 3 January 2018.  And he complained he hadnt received 
payments for that date and same day the following month.
ReAssure told Mr T that if the annuity  had started in January it wouldve been at a lower rate 
of £4,808 per year.  ReAssure  said that when the annuity was set up, the GMP had changed 
resulting in Mr T receiving  £48 more per year for the rest of his life. In addition,  he was paid 
£809 backdated payments on 17 April for February and March. He then received monthly  
payments of £404  beginning  on 27 April  the first payment being for April.  ReAssure said it 
couldnt give Mr T the GMP that applied in January as this would put him in a worse position 
as it was at a lower  rate than he was now receiving. But in order  to resolve  the complaint 
ReAssure paid Mr T a total of £375 for the inconvenience caused for the delay in setting up 
the annuity. Mr T remained unhappy  so brought his complaint to our service.
Following contact with our service, ReAssure  rechecked the issues leading  to the delays. 
ReAssure said it sent a retirement options  pack to Mr T on 7 November 2017. Amongst 
other things,  this pack set out what benefits  Mr T could  receive  including the expected  GMP 
which at this point  was £4,808. ReAssure said this pack also included an options form for 
Mr T to complete  and return  to ReAssure if he wanted to apply to set up the annuity.
ReAssure said on 16 January 2018, Mr T called and asked about the annuity following which 
an application pack was sent which would normally be sent within ten working days. But the 
pack was sent later than this on 7 February. Mr T completed the application and returned it 
to ReAssure, who received it on 26 February.  Taking into account the delays caused by 
ReAssure, it said the earliest the annuity couldve been set up was on 19 February 2018. So 
it calculated the loss of eight days to be £105.  As it had already  paid Mr T in excess  of this 
amount - £375  - it didnt  consider anything further was owed to him.
One of our investigators  looked at this complaint. Following  the updates from Mr T and 
ReAssure he said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. Taking into account  the delays, he 
considered the compensation  paid to Mr T of £375,  was fair. He also noted that Mr T is 
receiving an additional  £48 each year for the rest of his life due to the higher  annuity rate. He 
concluded that ReAssure didnt need  to do anything further.
Ref: DRN12445432Mr T disagreed with our investigators view. In order to resolve  the complaint he wants  
ReAssure to reduce  his monthly payments to £400 per month to reflect the GMP as at 
3 January of £4,808. He also wants to be paid for January and February  which he said is still 
outstanding. So he asked for the matter to be passed  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, I appreciate how strongly Mr T feels about  this complaint. But what I cant  do is ask 
ReAssure to reduce  Mr Ts annuity (income) in the way he is asking our service to do. This is 
because I cant ask it to put Mr T in a worse financial position. What  I can do is see what  
errors ReAssure are responsible for and make sure its compensated Mr T fairly. And I think  
in this case it has. Ill explain why.
I see two months before  his nominated retirement  date of 3 January 2018, Mr T was sent a 
retirement options pack by the ReAssure. This was sent on 7 November 2017. I know Mr T 
said he didnt receive the options  pack.  But I see it was correctly addressed. And Ive also 
seen the internal records from ReAssure showing this pack  was sent. So on a balance of 
probabilities, I consider  it more likely than not the pack was sent to, and received  at, the 
correct address. 
I know there was initially  some confusion as to whether ReAssure had sent this options pack 
 but on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied  that it had. What  ReAssure hadnt done was 
send Mr T a wake up pack six months prior to his nominated  retirement date, which it says 
it does to remind policyholders their retirement  is approaching. But I think  the retirement 
options pack that was sent in November 2017, did contain all the information Mr T needed  to 
start the process for setting up his annuity. Amongst  other  things, the covering letter said:
Once youve made  your choice please  complete and send  back the enclosed Option 
Selection Form or you can call us on the number below. Once we know  what youd like to do 
with your pension  we can send you any application  forms  that you may need to complete
I note the first time Mr T contacted ReAssure after this was sent was by phone  on 
16 January 2018.  During the call he asked if ReAssure had all the information it needed to 
start making  the annuity  payments. But ReAssure didnt have all the information it needed as 
Mr T hadnt asked for and therefore, hadnt been  sent the relevant application form. This was 
the next stage  in the process. Following the call Mr T was sent the relevant application form. 
I can see the completed application was signed  by Mr T on 21 February 2018 and was 
received by ReAssure  on 26 February.
Whilst I appreciate Mr T might not have realised he needed to complete  the options form or 
contact ReAssure to get the application  form, I think hed been sent sufficient information 
two months before his nominated retirement date to let him know this was the next stage in 
the process. Given he didnt call ReAssure until 16 January and return the application  until 
late February, I consider  its only at this point that ReAssure could reasonably be expected 
to set up his annuity.
But I see ReAssure has caused  some delays. When Mr T called on 16 January he was only 
sent an application form on 7 February.  I think this couldve been sent sooner. ReAssure 
Ref: DRN12445433says it aims to send  the application  form within ten working days. But clearly it was sent 
outside this timescale.  ReAssure estimates if it had sent Mr T the application form on time, 
the annuity start date couldve been  19 February 2018. Because of this, ReAssure calculated  
the loss to be £105 representing an eight day delay. ReAssure has in fact paid Mr T well 
above this amount paying him £375  for the delays  he experienced. And overall, taking into 
account the delays and inconvenience caused  by ReAssure,  I think  this amount  of 
compensation is fair.
Further because his annuity started  later than expected, the GMP had increased. And Mr T 
is receiving an annuity rate of £4,856 per year which equates to monthly payments of £404.  
This means  he is now receiving £48 more per year for the rest of his life than he would 
receive using the GMP that applied in early  January  2018. I note the retirement options pack 
sent to Mr T in November  2017, does make it clear  the GMP offered at that time was an 
estimate and could change. And this is what happened. In this case it worked out in Mr Ts 
favour. As Ive said above, I cant ask ReAssure to change  it as this would put him in a 
worse position financially.
I know Mr T considers he is owed payments for January and February  2018.  But Ive 
explained above why Mr Ts annuity started when  it did  and why it could not have started 
in early January.  Mr T is correct to say that the annuity payments are paid in advance.  And 
this is why he received  a backdated payment for the 27th of February,  the date the annuity 
started.
So whilst I appreciate  this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr T, Im not going to uphold  
the complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1244543