K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the charges  Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  
have asked him to pay to refurbish a car at the end of its hire period.
background
Mr A took receipt of a new car in June 2016. He financed the deal through a hire agreement 
with VWFS. But at the end of the term he was disappointed to receive  a bill for refurbishment 
work that VWFS said was necessary to bring the car back  to an appropriate condition for 
sale.
VWFS agreed to waive about £300  worth of charges but four charges  remained. Three of 
those related to scratched wheels and Mr A agreed that they were chargeable. But he didnt 
think VWFS should be charging  him for a dent on the quarter panel as he said this was 
smaller than a 5p piece  and surely within normal wear and tear.
VWFS insisted  the charge was fair and they were within their contractual rights  to make it 
but Mr A was still dissatisfied so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator agreed with VWFS. She noted  that the terms of Mr As hire contract said he 
must return the car in a good condition except for fair wear  and tear. And she went  on to 
explain that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA)  provided the 
industry guidelines by which we could  assess whether any damage was in excess  of fair 
wear and tear. She noted that the guidance said dents up to 10mm  in diameter were 
acceptable but when she reviewed the condition report provided  by VWFS she thought the 
dent was clearly larger  than this and therefore  chargeable. 
But Mr A was disappointed with the adjudicators  opinion and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A but I think VWFS have applied the refurbishment charges 
correctly. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I note that Mr A doesnt dispute the charges for the damaged wheels and Id agree that 
these are chargeable.
The outstanding issue is therefore the dent to the left hand rear quarter panel. 
Ref: DRN15345612The hire contract explains  that the car needs  to be returned in good repair and condition 
except for fair wear and tear (as defined by the BVRLA fair wear and tear guide). 
So Ive considered the picture of the quarter panel damage with the BVRLA  standard that 
says dents in excess  of 10mm are beyond fair wear  and tear and I think  the damage here is 
clearly visible and appears to be in excess  of the standard  its therefore chargeable.
So I dont  think VWFS need to take any further  action here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1534561