K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that The Royal  London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited (trading at the time 
as Scottish Life Pensions) failed  to notify him of its intentions to move his pension fund into a 
late vesting account  in 2012.
background
Mr L took out a pension  plan with Scottish Life. That company was taken over by 
Royal London in 2001, and from 2014 both companies have used the Royal  London name. 
So Royal London  is responsible for Mr Ls complaint. And although a number  of actions were 
undertaken by Scottish Life, for simplicity I will generally refer only to Royal London  
throughout this decision.
When he took the pension plan, Mr L told Royal London that he intended to retire in 
July 2012  when he reached  62 years of age. Royal London says it wrote  to Mr L in the 
lead up to that date to ask him to decide what he wanted to do with his pension benefits.  
Mr L says that he didnt receive any of those letters. When Mr L didnt respond to the letters 
Royal London wrote  to him to confirm it had moved  his pension benefits  into a late vesting 
account. And it went on to explain that this meant that whilst the account wouldnt benefit 
from profits, it would benefit  from investment  growth  as normal. Mr L says that he didnt 
receive this letter either.
Mr L says that he received some paperwork from Royal London  in 2017 about his benefits 
that he passed to his financial  advisor. He says that it was only then that he discovered  his 
pension had been moved into the late vesting account and that it had achieved a very poor 
level of investment growth over the previous  six years.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators.  He concluded that 
Royal London hadnt acted unreasonably  in switching the investment approach  on Mr Ls 
pension fund once  he had passed his stated retirement date. And on balance he thought  it 
most likely that Royal London  had made reasonable attempts to get in touch with Mr L at 
that time.  So he didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Mr Ls wife has also been affected in the same way, albeit  a couple of years earlier, by the 
movement of her pension funds to the late vesting account. She has a near identical 
complaint that I am deciding separately. And I must stress that I have  considered each of the 
complaints on their individual merits. But given the similarity in Mr Ls and Mrs Ls 
complaints, and the evidence presented by them and Royal  London, I hope they will 
understand why my decisions on the two complaints are commensurately alike.
Ref: DRN18709402At the outset, I want to say that Ive got no doubts  that Mr L has given us his complete  and 
honest recollections of what  happened  when he reached the retirement age on his pension 
plan in 2012. But Im mindful  that those  events took place many years ago, and over such a 
lengthy period  of time, even the most careful  memories can and do fade. Where there are 
differences between  what  Mr L and Royal  London  think happened,  I have  needed to use the 
balance of probability in reaching  my decision  or, in other words, what  I think  is more  likely 
to have happened.
First I will consider the letters that Royal London says it sent to Mr L as he approached the 
retirement age on his pension plan in 2012.  Royal London has given Mr L copies of what  it 
says would have  been sent. Mr L says that none  of the letters  were received.  He has also 
expressed some concerns that the letters Royal London has provided  are not accurate 
representations of what might have been  sent. He says they are on Royal  London headed 
notepaper, and in 2012 the letters  should have been branded as Scottish Life.
I think Mr L is correct  that the letters weve been  given  by Royal  London are not exact copies 
of what it says was sent in 2012. As well as the branding difference that Mr L has identified 
I can see that the footer of the letter shows RL_LETTERHEAD_2014. So that persuades me 
still further that these  arent exact copies  of what might have been sent to Mr L. I think  it is 
disappointing that Royal London  didnt make  that clearer when it sent these letters to Mr L 
and to us.
But that doesnt lead me to the conclusion that Mr L has reached   namely that the letters 
werent sent at all. It is common  for businesses to not retain full image copies of 
correspondence. Instead they will hold template letters, and the infill data that was used to 
populate them. And so at a future  date the text of any letters  that were sent can be 
recreated. And that is what I think happened here. In particular I note that the text of the 
letters refers to the Financial Services Authority. That organisation was abolished on 
1 April 2013 so leading me to the conclusion the letters were certainly issued before then,  
and most  likely in 2012 as shown by the date on the letters.
I have no reason to doubt what Royal London says  that the letters were sent to Mr L. The 
letters were sent to Mr Ls home address.  The address  that Royal London  used is identical 
to the one that Mr L has provided to us. So I cant see any reason why those letters  wouldnt 
have reached him. And although occasionally  a letter might go astray in the post I think it 
very unlikely  that all of them failed to reach  Mr L. 
So that would lead me to the conclusion that Mr L received the letters but didnt understand  
the importance of acting  on them. I would  agree  that the letters  dont explicitly explain what 
would happen  if Mr L were to not act upon  them.  But they do say that Mr L would need to get 
in touch by telephone if he wanted  to change the date at which he would take his pension.  
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls pension dating  back to when he originally 
took it out. Given the time that has passed  the copy that Royal London has been able to 
provide to us is of very poor quality. But I do note that section  2 of the policy  conditions  does 
state that ..no amount  may be applied to the With Profits Account after the Vesting Date  
shown on the Policy Schedule. So I think Royal Londons actions in moving  Mr Ls pension  
plan from the With Profits fund to the late vesting account is entirely  in line with the policy 
conditions when he first took his pension plan.
Ref: DRN18709403I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L. His pension benefits  havent 
grown by as much as he would have expected in the past six years.  But from the evidence 
I have seen I cannot conclude that Royal London  didnt act reasonably  or appropriately  in 
trying to contact Mr L when he approached the retirement date detailed  on his pension plan. 
And when  Mr L failed to respond to those letters I think  it was reasonable for Royal  London 
to move Mr Ls funds to the late vesting account  and await  his further instructions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1870940