K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The PPI covered both   
Mr and Mrs H. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have said that this policy was taken out during a phone call. This seems to be 
correct. Due to the time thats passed since the sale, no call recording is now available.  But   
I have seen copies  of document sent to Mr and Mrs H following the phone  call.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was taken  out approximately two years after the mortgage  started.  So I think  
that Mr and Mrs H would  reasonably have been  aware that PPI was optional, 
separate to and not a condition of their mortgage.
Ive also considered some of the paperwork completed as part of this sale.  In my 
opinion, the paperwork  makes numerous references to the PPI being optional. 
For example, the welcome letter to Mr and Mrs H states By choosing  to take out 
Paymentcare. The Paymentcare application  summary states in Section 2, 
Optional additional cover.. 
Another document, the demands  and needs summary states; I recommend you take 
out an Abbey Paymentcare and Recommendations  accepted Yes.
Ive also noted  that critical illness cover  was recommended but declined.  This again 
suggests that Mr and Mrs H would reasonably have been aware that they had a 
choice about the insurance.
Although Mr and Mrs H have said that they were pressured into taking PPI, Ive not 
seen evidence to support  what  theyve said. Pressure can be subjective  and what  
feels like pressure to one person may not to another.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that the PPI was presented  as optional 
and that Mr and Mrs H chose to take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,   
I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN16434942Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold, Santander  expected  to get a high level of commission and    
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Mr and Mrs H about that. 
Because Santander didnt  tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, including what  theyve said about  
their existing means of making their repayments.  Mr and Mrs H have said that they had 
savings in the form of shares. But I dont think that this means the recommendation to take 
PPI was unsuitable or that the policy wasnt right for Mr and Mrs H. I say this because the 
value of their shares could increase  or decrease  dependant on a range of factors.  Also, the 
shares may not have been easily or quickly changed into a means  that they could use to 
make their mortgage repayments.
This policy also would have paid out for longer than the period of full sick pay that 
Mr and Mrs H would  have even entitled to, so these  points  dont  change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN16434943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1643494