K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc should  have offered  him a more competitive rate of 
interest on his mortgage sooner than it did. Mr M says hed asked many times for a better 
rate of interest over the past five or so years  but hes been told that he can only get this with 
proof of income. Mr M couldnt provide this and so he complains hes been denied  fair 
access to competitive interest  rates.
Mr M also says Santander could have done more to help him when he faced financial 
difficulties some years ago.
background
In November 2006 Mr M took out an interest  only mortgage with Santander over a 20 year 
term. After an initial  interest rate product, Mr Ms mortgage reverted onto Santanders 
standard variable  rate (SVR). Mr M experienced some problems paying his mortgage in the 
past, although the mortgage hasnt been  in arrears since 2013.
In February 2019  Mr M took out a new interest rate tracker at 0.69% above Bank of England 
base rate for 24 months.  This saved Mr M a considerable  amount of money each month  on 
his mortgage payments.  Mr M complained  to Santander and said that it should have made a 
more competitive interest rate product  available  to him before.
Santander gave  its final response on 25 February 2019. Santander didnt uphold the 
complaint and disagreed that it had treated  Mr M unfairly. Santander didnt think Mr M had 
asked for a new interest rate product.  And it didnt believe it was for Santander to ask Mr M if 
he wanted a new product.  It also said in Mr Ms annual statement it invited him to get in 
touch if he wanted  to see what other products  might  be available or apply online for a 
product transfer.  
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response and brought the matter to us. Our investigator  
looked at Mr Ms complaint but didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably. Our 
investigator couldnt find evidence to support Mr Ms testimony that hed asked for new 
interest rate products,  or that Santander had withheld better interest  rates as Mr M couldnt 
prove his income.  He also thought  that Santander had shown a reasonable degree of 
forbearance in the past and had helped Mr M when  he was in financial difficulty.
Mr M asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint again.  He said, in summary, that he 
felt hed been exploited by Santander. Mr M said Santander had been trying to get the 
maximum money and profit from every customer. He said hed asked in every  call with 
Santander for a better interest  rate and it was convenient that Santander could only find 
some call recordings now that support its case.  
This complaint has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to say I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint. I dont 
underestimate how important this matter is to him and I realise the big difference it has made 
Ref: DRN11785222to Mr Ms interest only mortgage  payments now hes on a tracker  interest  rate. This is 
especially relevant  with an interest  only mortgage  of over £300,000 like Mr Ms. I understand 
the arguments that he makes and why he questions whether Santander should have done 
more to give him access to a lower interest  rate sooner.
I can also understand Mr Ms frustration that we havent been able to listen  to every call 
recording of every discussion hes had with Santander in recent  years  to try to find a call 
where he has asked  for a better interest  rate. Were  an informal dispute  resolution service 
set up to resolve complaints informally. We rely on evidence we can gather from both parties  
to support our investigations into whats happened in the circumstances of each complaint 
brought to us. Part of our role is to get to the heart  of the complaint made  and establish what  
key evidence is needed to reach an informed determination of a complaint. 
Mr M says hes asked  Santander for a new interest rate product in many calls. Weve  looked 
at the call log of times  when Mr M has spoken  with Santander about his mortgage. There  
were two calls available for us to listen to in 2018,  although one in late 2017  wasnt  available  
any longer. I dont think there is anything sinister in this earlier call recording not still being 
available to share with us due to the time thats passed since the recording was made. 
I have listened  carefully  to two calls in February 2018 and May 2018 to try to establish 
exactly what was discussed  between Santander and Mr M - when Mr M thought he had 
asked for a new interest rate. 
Having listened  to these calls, I havent found  evidence that supports  Mr Ms recollection of 
asking Santander  for a new interest  rate product. In these calls Mr M was clearly  interested 
in exploring making  changes to his mortgage.  He asks how he can repay some of the capital 
owed to Santander and hes aware that he had an interest  only mortgage that would need 
paying some  eight or so years in the future.
In the first call, on 13 February 2018,  Santander says that Mr M is able to make capital 
overpayments each  month or pay lump sums. It points out there is no penalty for this as 
Mr M is on Santanders SVR and he has the flexibility to make extra payments without  
incurring a early repayment charge. But Mr M doesnt ask whether he can have a lower rate 
of interest.  Mr M says that he has his house on the market to be sold.
In another call on 8 May 2018,  Mr M says he thinks theres a new law which  means he cant 
afford to change to capital  repayment. The call handler offers  to put Mr M through to another 
team to talk about his options. The call handler says she doesnt know which  parts of Mr Ms 
income might be taken into account in an affordability assessment. However, Mr M declines 
to speak to the other team and ends the call. Again, Mr M doesnt ask for a new interest  rate 
product.
In February 2019  Mr M takes out an interest  rate tracker of 0.69% above Bank of England 
base rates, which was around 1.44% at the time.  I can see why this led Mr M to question 
why hed not been made aware  of the significant saving that this could have led to sooner.
Santander has shown  copies of the annual mortgage statements sent to Mr M in recent 
years which invites its mortgage customers on the SVR to get in touch to discuss what  lower 
interest rates might be available. While Santander  didnt specifically call Mr M to offer a new 
interest rate product,  or proactively mention this when discussing other aspects of 
administering the mortgage, it did invite him to get in touch to find out what would be 
Ref: DRN11785223available. I think Santander  acted fairly  by making Mr M aware that there  might  be products 
available to him and that he should  contact it if he wanted to see what  he could apply for.
I havent found supporting evidence that Mr M acted upon this and asked for a new product - 
and I havent evidence that supports Mr Ms recollection that Santander said he cant  have a 
lower interest rate because of his income.  I think there may be a genuine  misunderstanding  
here with discussions  about other lending products Mr M had asked for over the years, or 
other changes hed wanted  to make to his mortgage that might have triggered an 
affordability assessment.
Mr M has also mentioned that in the past Santander  could have done more  to help him in 
financial difficulty. It isnt entirely clear  what period  Mr M is referring to or where exactly  he 
felt Santander  fell short in terms of the support it gave him. The last time this mortgage was 
in arrears was in 2013. Santander capitalised arrears at that time to help Mr M, and Mr M 
has managed to stay up to date with his mortgage  payments since  then. Overall, Im not 
persuaded theres evidence that Santander  treated Mr M unfairly when he experienced 
financial difficulties in the past.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1178522