K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired  with the assistance of finance  from Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S acquired a used  car on 28 February 2019  from a main dealership in Derby. At the time 
of purchase the car was around a year old and had covered 5085 miles.  The car cost 
£33,873. Mr S paid £1238 deposit and the rest was financed over 48 months  with VWFS.
Mr S says that he noticed an issue with the steering of the car on the journey  home  from the 
dealership. He said that there were steering and braking issues  when the car was travelling 
at speed. Mr S contacted his local dealership in Leeds on 7 March 2019  to report these  
issues. It was arranged  for the car to be inspected at Leeds on 28 March  to deal with these 
issues. Leeds dealership could not find any faults with the brakes but found  that three of the 
tyres had tread damage which was potentially causing the steering issues.  
Mr S then contacted the supplying dealership at Derby the next day, on the 29 March 2019 
to report the issue  with the steering.  It was arranged that the car would be inspected  on 
3 April 2019 at Derby dealership.
Following the inspection it was discovered  that the car had been driven at excessive speed  
and this had damaged the brakes and also caused tyre and wheel damage.  Derby  
dealership said that the car did not leave the showroom  in that condition and the damage 
must have  been  caused by Mr S. VWFS  rejected Mr Ss complaint  that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality.
Mr S said that he did not drive the vehicle at excessive speed and the issues were  there  on 
collection of the car and he reported them straightaway.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt recommend that the complaint was 
upheld. He considered that on the basis of all of the evidence he wasnt persuaded that the 
faults with the car were there or developing at the point of sale.
Mr S didnt agree and said that there was no evidence that he drove the car at speed or 
caused the damage to the car. He pointed out that his other two cars were  in immaculate 
condition and he is a responsible driver.  So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act gives  a consumer an equal  
right to claim  a refund against  the supplier of goods  or services or the provider of credit  if 
there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 implies  a term into the contract  that the goods should  be of satisfactory 
quality.
Ref: DRN15105932There is no dispute that the car has extensive  damage to the wheels and brakes. It is also 
not in dispute that it is likely  that this has happened because  of the car being driven at 
speed. The person who inspected the car at Derby suggested it was because the car had 
been drifted and essentially driven at very high speeds. What is in dispute is whether the 
car was supplied to Mr S in that condition. 
I have looked  at the paperwork  completed  at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car 
was inspected on 21 February 2019 before it left another  dealership  and the nearside front 
tyre was replaced but no other issues  were identified. The car was checked again  on 22 
February 2019 by Derby  dealership before it was supplied to Mr S and no issues were  
identified.
It was agreed between Mr S and the dealership that one of the alloy wheels would be 
refurbished to deal with a nick. This was done before Mr S collected the car. 
Mr S signed  a handover checklist on 28 February  2019 which  confirms he walked around 
and inspected the car before he took it away.  
I have listened  to the call between Mr S and the dealership on 3 April 2019. Mr S does 
mention taking the car to a track.  Mr S also reported  to Leeds dealership that the issues with 
the car were at speeds  of above 90  100 mph. I think  it is likely that Mr S has driven  the car 
at these speeds.
I think that given  that the tyre was replaced  after leaving one dealership  on the 21 February 
2019 it is unlikely  that there would have been  damage to other tyres that was not picked up 
during those inspections. In addition, it seems unlikely that the alloy wheel was refurbished 
to deal with a nick but it was not picked up that it was buckled.
On balance, on the basis of the evidence I have seen, I cant say that the car was supplied 
to Mr S with the level of damage it has now. In the circumstances I cant  say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied  to Mr S.
I cant say how the car came to be damaged, but on the basis  of the evidence I have seen 
and the inspections done before the car was supplied to Mr S I cant say that it was 
damaged at the point of supply and so I am unable  to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
10 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1510593