K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc lent irresponsibly  when it approved a loan for 
£3,000 in August 2015. 
Background
Mr M applied  for a loan online with Bank  of Scotland  on 10 August 2015.  In the application,  
Mr M told Bank of Scotland he earned £1,150  a month and had commitments of £200.  
Bank of Scotlands online application system  approved the loan and it was released to Mr M. 
Loan payments  werent maintained and the arrears  level built which  meant Bank of Scotland 
decided to default the loan in October  2016. Mr M has since  repaid  the outstanding balance.  
Mr M complained to Bank  of Scotland about its decision to approve the loan.  He explained 
that information on his credit  file should have shown  he was struggling. In addition,  Mr M has 
told us he has suffered with a gambling addiction over the years  and this should have been 
clear to Bank of Scotland when he applied. 
Bank of Scotland replied on 21 November 2018  but didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It said it 
had checked affordability before deciding to proceed  as well as Mr Ms credit file. Mr M 
referred his complaint to our service  and it was passed to an investigator.  The investigator 
thought Bank of Scotland had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly so didnt ask it to take any 
further action. Mr M asked to appeal  so his complaint has been passed  to me to make  a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has sent us his credit file and bank statements from the period around his loan 
application. I can see Mr Ms bank statements show he was gambling at the time he applied 
for the loan. And Mr Ms credit file shows he had other credit  at the time. But I have to 
balance that against the information Bank of Scotland used to assess  Mr Ms application. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of Mr Ms application and it shows  the information he 
provided. I know Mr M says his outgoings  and commitments were higher than the £200 
figure used  in his application. But Bank  of Scotland relied on the information Mr M provided 
to base its lending  decision. And I think thats reasonable. Looking at the income Mr M 
declared along with the outgoings  figure he gave, the loan does appear to be affordable. 
Mr M says his credit file should have showed  he couldnt afford the loan.  But whilst Mr Ms 
credit file shows he had other  credit  at the time he applied for the personal loan, 
Bank of Scotland took that into account  s part of the application process. Im satisfied that 
Bank of Scotland looked at Mr Ms credit file and considered the information it found when 
Mr M applied  for the loan in 2015.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im satisfied Bank of Scotland completed proportionate 
checks to ensure the loan was sustainable when  he applied.  Based on what Mr M told 
Bank of Scotland and what it found out as part of the application process,  I think the decision 
to approve the loan was reasonable. I havent found that Bank of Scotland  lent irresponsibly 
Ref: DRN18014682when it approved Mr Ms loan in August  2015.  As a result Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1801468