K820x#14complaint
Ms N is unhappy with the difficulties shes experienced in restructuring  the final payment at 
the end of her hire purchase agreement with Toyota  Financial Services  (UK) Plc (Toyota).
background
Ms N took out a hire purchase agreement with Toyota in April 2014 for the acquisition  of a 
new car. The cash price of the car was £9,500, with a deposit paid of £639. The agreement  
had a term of 42 months, with regular monthly repayments of £139.29 and a final repayment 
of £3,150 due 42 months  after delivery  of the car.
In 2017 Ms N started receiving letters from Toyota reminding her that that her agreement  
was ending in October  2017, and giving her three  options. These options included  to 
upgrade to a new car, to keep the car, and to give the car back. In September  2017  Ms N 
got in touch with Toyota to arrange  to keep the car, by refinancing the final payment of 
£3,150 onto a new hire purchase agreement - repayable over a term of 22 months.
As the final payment of £3,150 was already in the billing process,  Toyota told Ms N that she 
would need to cancel her direct debit with her bank  to prevent the payment from debiting  
her account,  which  Ms N did.
Toyota sent Ms N a modifying agreement,  which was signed  and returned  by Ms N in 
November 2017.  At the end of November  2017  Ms N received a letter  from Toyota advising 
that her account was in arrears as her first repayment on the new agreement hadnt  been 
received. Toyota  say that as Ms N cancelled her direct debit with her bank, they required her 
to reconfirm her bank account details and to set up a new direct debit mandate at their end. 
And that while they tried to do this by email, as Ms N wouldnt answer security questions  
they werent able to complete the process. 
Ms N says that Toyota  already had her bank details  from her previous hire purchase  
agreement, so feels they were unfairly  chasing  her for information they already had. So Ms 
N brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Ns complaint and didnt uphold  it. She said that as Ms N 
didnt pass the security questions, Toyota were  unable  to confirm the bank account details 
with her by email, which meant they were  unable to set up the new direct debit. And she 
thought that Toyota had correctly reported  the arrears and missed repayments to the credit  
reference agencies.
Ms N disagreed saying  that shed done everything  that Toyota had asked of her and asked 
that an ombudsman  review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Toyota says that as Ms N had cancelled the direct debit authority with her bank, they needed  
to set up a new direct  debit at their end to take payment for her new hire purchase  
agreement. They say they tried to do this with Ms N via email,  but as she wouldnt answer 
Ref: DRN19659212security questions they couldnt complete  the process. Ms N says that she returned her 
direct debit details to Toyota more than once, but that Toyota  lost them.  
From what  Ive seen when Toyota sent out the new hire purchase agreement  by email  to Ms 
N, they didnt  send a new direct  debit authority at the same time. And having looked  at what  
both parties have provided,  Im not persuaded that Ms N did provide a new direct  debit  
authority or confirm  her bank details to Toyota in relation to the refinanced balloon payment.  
I think its unlikely that Toyota wouldve continued  contacting Ms N, if they couldve set up 
the authority to have her payments taken  as ultimately it was in their own interest to be 
receiving Ms Ns payments for her new hire purchase agreement.
Also I dont think it was unusual or unreasonable for Toyota to ask Ms N to complete a 
security process before disclosing her account information via email.  Or, for Toyota  to say 
that they needed to reconfirm Ms Ns bank  account information before setting up a new 
direct debit. And I can see that Toyota  suggested Ms N could call them to set up the direct  
debit over the phone, if she didnt want to do it via email.
I also considered whether  Toyota shouldve just set up a new direct  debit based on Ms Ns 
previous bank account information. But, I think its reasonable for them  to want  to confirm  the 
bank account  information before doing so. So while I can understand why Ms N mayve felt 
frustrated or felt that the checks were  unnecessary  - I dont think  Toyota  has been 
unreasonable in what theyve asked  of her in trying to set up this direct debit.
Ms N is also unhappy that Toyota  have recorded  information on her credit file for the period  
of time that payments  werent being  made because the direct  debit  wasnt in place. Toyota 
say theyve accurately  reported the status of Ms Ns missed  hire purchase payments and 
arrears to credit reference agencies.  
From what  Ive seen Toyota  havent  taken any action against Ms N although she hasnt 
made any monthly repayments towards her new hire purchase agreement  - even  though she 
still has the car she financed. I think Toyota has been considerate  in not taking any action 
while Ms Ns complaint is with our service. Toyota is required to provide accurate information 
to credit reference agencies about  finance agreements  so I dont think  that theyve done 
anything wrong  in reporting the current status of Ms Ns agreement or missed repayments. 
Im also conscious that Ms N couldve made  payments to her agreement to keep it up to date 
and prevent any negative information being  recorded on her credit file.
Ms N is unhappy that Toyota have been writing to her about the missed  payments, whereas 
Toyota say that theyve  only sent letters to Ms N in line with their obligations as a finance 
provider, to keep  her updated  as to her current arrears. And I dont think  its unreasonable  
for them to send letters to update Ms N on the status of her hire purchase  agreement and 
the arrears balance.
Having considered everything  I dont think that Toyota has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here.
But I appreciate  that Ms N has found  all of this very stressful, and that its happened at a 
difficult time for her. Ms N has also told us that she is experiencing financial difficulties and 
has concerns about making the payment on this debt. Toyota has now terminated the 
account, but it hasnt  take any action to recover the car or to start recovery  action for the 
balance owing  so its already shown Ms N some  forbearance. Id strongly encourage Ms N 
to liaise  with Toyota about the outstanding debt, providing an income  and expenditure form 
Ref: DRN19659213and payment details  if requested. Id also remind Toyota of its obligations to treat Ms N as a 
consumer in arrears fairly, with continued forbearance and due consideration.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1965921