K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt  credit  a cheque  he deposited in 
2014 to his account. Hes also unhappy  with how Santander handled his complaint. 
background 
Mr C has said he deposited a cheque  in 2014  but realised in 2018  when he came across  the 
paying in slip that it had not been  credited to his account. 
Santander has said the cheque was cancelled and returned to Mr C so he would have 
known the cheque had not been deposited.  
Mr C is also unhappy with the service he has been  provided from Santander in the way it 
has handled his complaint. He has said it didnt return  his phone calls.  
Santander offered  Mr C £25 for how it handled Mr Cs complaint.  However,  after the 
complaint was brought to the service Santander said it would be prepared to offer Mr C an 
additional £75 for the complaint handling   so £100  in total. 
Our adjudicator thought this complaint wasnt one we should uphold and felt the £100  
offered was a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint about the service he had been provided. 
Mr C didnt agree and wanted the case to be looked at by an ombudsman.  So its been  
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has provided internal screenshots of its systems to show  that the cheque was 
deposited in branch on 23 October 2014 at 12.34pm. The screenshot  shows  that the cheque 
was cancelled on the same day at 4.26pm.  It also shows that Mr C was in branch  when  the 
cheque was cancelled  as there  is evidence  of him using his chip and pin in branch. 
As the cheque had not been reprocessed, Santander has said it would usually return the 
cheque to the consumer. And I think that is more  than likely to have happened in Mr Cs 
case. Its not clear  if Santander would have returned  the cheque  to Mr C in person as he was 
in branch already using the chip and pin facilities, or whether it would have been posted 
back to him. But either way, based on the evidence and information  Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Mr C would have known  that the cheque  had not been successfully deposited. 
Santander has also provided evidence through its internal screenshots  to show Mr C logged 
in to his internet banking on 15 November 2014. So if he thought  the cheque  had been  
successfully deposited,  he would have realised when he logged  in to his account that it had 
not been successful. Its likely he would have raised his concerns  about  this then rather than 
in 2018, if hed expected  his account to have a balance of nearly £500 more  than it did. 
I think Santanders offer of £100  in total for the customer service issues  Mr C experienced is 
fair. 
Ref: DRN16032282my final decision
Santander UK PLCs  offer to pay Mr C an extra £75 compensation is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1603228