K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
August 2003 on a further advance to a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland  plc, 
trading as Halifax, mis-sold them the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP  can be made  up of three  different elements  MPPI,  life cover and critical 
illness cover.  But Mr and Mrs P only took out PPI  which covers  accident, sickness  and 
involuntary unemployment. So I only need  to consider their complaint about PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs P say PPI was added without  their knowledge or consent. Halifax  doesnt have 
all of the paperwork from the sale. This isnt surprising or unusual  given that the sale took 
place over 14 years ago. So Ill consider the information I do have, and what we know  about  
these particular sales. 
Halifax has shown this service examples of the paperwork that was likely used in these 
types of sales at that time. So based  on that I think,  on balance,  Halifax most likely made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have  to take out the PPI  and importantly given the nature of 
their complaint, that they chose  to take it out. 
Halifax has also given me screenshots taken from its internal systems. And on two of them 
in particular I can see a number of questions were  asked  about the policys suitability for 
them both.   These questions have been  answered. This suggests that a detailed  discussion 
about the PPI took place with the advisor. So I still think its most likely they chose to take 
out PPI. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P have  said - including  what they have said about 
their employee sick pay benefits  and that they had savings. But PPI wouldve meant they 
couldve used any other funds for their living costs  and potentially safeguard any savings. 
Ref: DRN11608292The PPI also gave  them up to 24 months cover and ultimately it protected  their mortgage 
which was a big and long term commitment, secured on their home. So these points dont 
change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs P back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1160829