K822xcomplaint
Mr M complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services  Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Somerset Bridge, trading  as Go Skippy, cancelled Mr Ms policy  because  he didnt send 
them a copy  of his driving licence. They said theyd sent him warnings and reminders about 
it. But Mr M said he didnt receive  those. He was also unhappy about them  taking a direct 
debit payment from him after they cancelled, and about how they handled his complaint.  
The investigator recommended  that his complaint should be upheld  in part. He didnt think  it 
was unreasonable for them to cancel Mr Ms policy. But he did think it was unreasonable that 
they wouldnt refund his deposit.  
Somerset Bridge didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers and brokers are entitled to ask a policyholder for information  to set up an insurance  
policy. The policy  information Somerset  Bridge sent Mr M says that they may require a copy  
of his driving licence  and highlights that failure to send it within 21 days  of the policy start 
date can result in the policy being  cancelled. 
Somerset Bridge have shown us that Mr M applied for the policy online via a comparison site 
price. Theyve also shown us screenshots and other  records  showing how they contacted  Mr 
M. They asked him to send his copy driving  licence,  and that letter  warned that if he didnt do 
so within  21 days his policy could  be cancelled. It said that he could scan  and email the 
licence, or he could post a copy.  
Somerset Bridge sent another letter request for it on 18 June  and another on 25 June saying 
that if they got no response, they would cancel  his policy on 29 June. That letter detailed 
what the fees would be then. Somerset Bridge also sent Mr M reminder  text messages on 22 
June and 25 June,  to the telephone number provided in his application.
Mr M said he didnt  get these reminders,  and the first he heard that he wasnt  insured  was 
from the police.  He felt that he should still be insured because  Somerset Bridge  had carried 
on taking a direct debit payment from his account.  
Somerset Bridge have shown us the information that Mr M gave them  via the online  
comparison site when  he took out the policy. This included his address and email address. 
These are the ones  that Somerset Bridge has used in contacting  him about his driving 
licence. They are also the ones which are included  in his policy  information,  and they make  
clear that he should  contact them  immediately  if his details are not correct. 
Ref: DRN16840392Mr M said hed told Somerset Bridge that he was waiting for his driving licence, but 
Somerset Bridge say he didnt contact  them.  He also said that he had moved from the 
address he gave Somerset Bridge when he took out his policy. But I think  that Somerset  
Bridge were entitled to use the address hed given them, and it was up to him to tell them  if 
hed moved. They sent reminders  to the address  he gave them, so theyre not to blame if he 
didnt receive them.
Mr M also said that he didnt receive  emails  because he didnt  use email and had only given 
Somerset Bridge an email address because theyd asked him for one. But I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Somerset Bridge to assume  that, since Mr M had given them  an email 
address, that Mr M would be using it. And I see that Mr M did use email when complaining to 
Somerset Bridge. 
So, I think that Somerset Bridge did cancel his policy in line with their terms and conditions,  
after giving him reminders  and warnings and time to comply. In fact, they gave him more  
than 21 days,  so I dont think they have acted unreasonably. 
As regards  the direct  debit they took after they called the policy,  Somerset Bridge explained  
that the payment was due and they had already started the process for deducting  it, so I 
dont think thats  unfair.  
Mr M was also unhappy that Somerset  Bridge didnt reply to all his emails after he 
complained. But I can see that though they didnt  reply to all of those, they did acknowledge 
his complaint, and they dealt with it within the required  timescale  and so I dont  think  thats 
unreasonable either.
I do see that Mr M has found the cancellation  of his policy quite frustrating, but in all the 
circumstances I dont  think  Somerset Bridge are to blame. I dont think  that they have acted 
unfairly in cancelling his policy.
Our investigator analysed  the breakdown of charges Somerset  Bridge sent Mr M. These 
included charges for the time which the insured him, a cancellation  fee and broker  fee, and a 
direct debit fee. But I can see that Somerset Bridge had made  him aware  of these charges in 
advance, and I dont think that theyre  unreasonable.
Somerset Bridge had also charged Mr M a deposit  of £215.76,  which they claimed  was non-
refundable. But although they showed  us their terms of business  which  confirmed how much 
they would  return  to a person, that did not specify that the deposit was non-refundable.  
The investigator considered that this was unfair, and I agree  with him. If Somerset Bridge 
had intended for the deposit to be non-refundable,  they should have told Mr M that in 
advance. For that reason, I think that should refund him that deposit plus interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited  to:
 
Pay Mr M £215.76 plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of cancellation 
until they pay him that amount.
Ref: DRN16840393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
If Somerset  Bridge consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from any interest,  they should  tell Mr M how much they have taken  off. They  
should also give Mr M a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1684039