K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2006 Mrs G took out a credit card with BOS. At the same  time she was sold a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought Mrs G had made it 
clear in the application she wanted PPI and the policy wouldve suited  her needs.
Mrs G disagreed. She says it wasnt made clear the policy was optional  and didnt need it.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mrs G was sold the PPI over the phone when she applied for her credit  card.  BOS  needed  to 
make it clear  the PPI was optional and Mrs G says this wasnt  done.  Mrs G hasnt given us 
much detail about what was said at the phone call to make her think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show.
Ive looked at the demands and needs statement and I can see that PPI was recommended  
to Mrs G and that it records she has no other  means of making her credit  card payments if 
she couldnt work. So although  I dont  know exactly what was discussed - I think PPI and 
Mrs Gs needs were  discussed during the meeting.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  card agreement and can see that after signing for the 
credit there is a separate  section that deals with PPI. Within the section I can see Mrs G has 
placed a tick next to I wish to purchase  Credit  Card Repayment Cover and signed just 
below this confirming  her selection. If she didnt  want  PPI she couldve left the section clear 
so I think Mrs G wouldve understood she didnt have to take PPI and that she signed  to take 
it because she wanted the cover.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Mrs G could make an informed  
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable  to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs G for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN17075132She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mrs G says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay even 
though this isnt reflected in the demands and needs statement taken at the time. But 
regardless of what sick pay she mayve been  entitled to the policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of this and covered her credit  card payments for up to 12 months  if she 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. So I think the policy  
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs G in her circumstances.  
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided she no longer wanted  the policy she couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mrs G information in a way which  was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Mrs G has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
When the policy  was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs G about  that. 
Because BOS  didnt  tell Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17075133
Ref: DRN1707513