K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc didnt act fairly or reasonably when dealing with his 
mortgage application. He wants help to get a mortgage.
background
Mr R applied for a mortgage to Barclays, and it declined his application. He said that before 
the decline, the adviser said the application  was likely to fail, but then could be reviewed. But 
the next day, Mr R said that the adviser  told him that there wasnt  anything  she could do and 
suggested Mr R went elsewhere. Mr R said that he then spoke to another advisor at 
Barclays who said they wouldnt  have  submitted  the application as it had no chance of 
success. Mr R said that due to the unsuccessful application, he now had a mark in his credit 
records and no other  lender would give him a mortgage as Barclays  had refused to lend. 
Mr R said as a result hed had to sell a buy to let property to raise  the funds.
Mr R complained to Barclays. It said the first adviser had told Mr R that the application didnt 
meet Barclays lending policies and got advice from a specialist team that the application 
could be submitted and then reviewed if declined. Mr R agreed to this. Barclays explained  
that the review  happened as promised but the application failed due to the lending policies, 
not affordability. It said that Mr Rs credit records were unaffected (only  Mr R and Barclays  
could see the credit search carried out it claimed) and the decision didnt affect  the views of 
other lenders.
Mr R complained to us. The investigators view was that having looked  at Mr Rs credit 
records, there was evidence which could be seen by third parties  that Barclays had carried  
out a credit search.  He said that the search should  be removed and Barclays should  pay 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused.  The investigator said that the search mightve  
affected Mr Rs ability  to get credit.
Mr R disagreed. He said all the factors werent  taken  into consideration by the investigator.  
The investigator said that Mr R made  a choice to sell a property to raise money and was 
likely to have needed a broker as Barclays wasnt willing to lend in the circumstances. He 
didnt think that the credit  search alone was the reason  why other  lenders  appeared to be 
unwilling to lend.
Barclays also disagreed.  It said that Mr R knew before the application was made that it was 
likely to be declined and there was no guarantee of lending, but he wanted to try. It provided  
evidence that Mr R also knew that a credit  search would be made and agreed to it. Barclays  
pointed out that the credit  records didnt say that the application was declined  and would be 
removed shortly in any event (due to the length of time that credit  searches are shown). But 
it offered £100 compensation  as Barclays felt that it shouldnt have said that the search  
could only be seen  by it and Mr R when handling  his complaint. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN14032432The first point is whether  Mr R consented  to the application being  made  (and the related 
credit search), despite the likelihood of a decline.  I wasnt present at the meeting so I have to 
decide on the basis of the evidence before me what is more  likely than not to have 
happened. Ive heard from both Mr R and the first adviser and have the computer records.  I 
think that its more likely than not Mr R did consent. This is because hed made an earlier 
application elsewhere (according to the emails with his broker),  the notes at the time (on 
which I can put weight) say he consented, and even Mr Rs initial  account to this service 
says that he did consent.
I think Mr R consented because he hoped  that upon review  Barclays  would change its mind.  
But I also think its more likely than not that he was warned  there was no guarantee of 
success, partly because thats what the adviser has said and because  lenders  generally 
never guarantee lending. In his complaint form, Mr R says he still wants  the mortgage. I think 
Mr R was keen enough to take the risk of failure  when he applied to Barclays.
The second  issue  is about the credit  search.  It was one which  could be seen  by third parties. 
It doesnt say whether  or not the application was declined. This isnt negative  information. 
And Mr R consented to the search when he applied  for the mortgage. Barclays  wasnt  unfair 
or unreasonable in recording the search.  And theres no evidence  that the search alone 
stopped Mr R getting a mortgage. Lenders  dont make  decisions solely  based on one credit 
search by another lender; the broker hasnt said Mr R couldnt get a mortgage  due to this; 
and I note Mr R was unsuccessful in a previous application to another  lender.
This service cant specifically look at complaints handling as it isnt an activity regulated by 
us. I think Barclays was incorrect  to claim in its response to Mr Rs complaint that the credit 
search couldnt be seen by third parties. But its made a fair and reasonable offer for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this inaccurate response in my view.  While I cant  determine 
this point as it relates to complaints handling,  I note the offer remains available.
In response to my provisional view, Barclays agreed to the decision I proposed. But Mr R 
sent numerous emails  and further evidence and called this service to say that he disagreed  
with my view and why. In particular, he said that Id made factual errors in my decision, 
though upon close examination it appeared that the alleged factual errors were more  a 
dispute over the view Id taken concerning  the facts. For example, Mr R accepted that he 
had consented  to the application knowing that it was likely to be unsuccessful,  but in order  to 
get the application reviewed by an underwriter  Mr R objected that Id said he hoped  for the 
decision to be reversed,  but as he wanted  the unsuccessful application to be reviewed, I 
dont consider this to a factual error. Other alleged errors related to my summary of the 
positions set out by others, such as the investigator   while  Mr R may disagree with what  
was said, a correct  summary of such positions isnt a factual error.
Mr R also said that he understood lenders decided whether  to lend based on more  than one 
factor, but believed  the credit search  by Barclays was the straw that broke the camels 
back. Mr R said that he believed I hadnt  read his file correctly and set out again  his position 
about what had happened. He felt that I had mis-understood his attitude to risk and his credit  
file, and confirmed  that he no longer wanted  a mortgage. Mr R was unhappy that I had a 
different view to that of the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14032433Ive also borne in mind  Mr Rs responses  and reviewed my view in light of his comments and 
the further evidence he supplied. But I dont  agree  with him that my provisional  view contains 
factual errors as I set out above. I appreciate Mr R feels very strongly  about  his complaint, 
but its clear from his own account that he consented to the application and the credit search, 
despite having been told that there was a likelihood it would be unsuccessful. And Mr R 
himself accepts that one credit search alone is unlikely to be a reason why lenders appear to 
be unwilling to give him a mortgage;  I dont  agree that one credit search is the straw  that 
broke the camels  back as lending decisions are complex and based on many factors,  some 
of which  have more  weight than others,  such as the amount of debt owed  by a consumer.
I also accept that the fact my view was different to the investigator was disappointing  for 
Mr R, but it doesnt mean that my view is incorrect. This service has a two-stage process, 
and ombudsmen take into account all the evidence before them, the investigators  view, and 
the comments from the parties.  This service  provides information  about ombudsmen, their 
knowledge and training,  and their role to consumers.
Having reviewed the evidence and the comments of the parties again, I remain  of the view 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, and leave it up to Mr R whether  to 
accept the £100 offer by Barclays  Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1403243