K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Amtrust  Europe Limited  didnt deal with her claim on a legal expenses 
insurance policy fairly. She is supported in making  this complaint by her solicitors  who Ill call 
C.
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
background
Miss S made a claim on her legal expenses  insurance policy and Amtrust appointed one of 
its panel solicitors to act for her in relation  to a proposed claim for personal injury. After  
providing some advice, the panel  solicitors refused to continue  acting for Miss S. They  said 
she had acted against their advice and had contacted the other partys insurer directly.  
Amtrust said it wouldnt appoint another one of its panel firms.
Miss S asked another  firm of solicitors,  M, to act for her but Amtrust  said M would have to 
act under a conditional fee agreement (CFA) with no success fee if Miss S won her case. It 
also said the original  panel solicitor would  have a lien over the case for their legal costs 
(which effectively stops the case being  transferred elsewhere until those costs  are paid or 
theres a binding promise to ensure payment). Amtrust also said the claim wasnt  ready  to be 
issued and Miss S could  only appoint her own solicitors once she reached that point, so 
there would be no cover  until then.
Miss S complained. She said she wouldnt be able to get any solicitors  to act for her on the 
basis suggested by Amtrust. She also said it wasnt fair for Amtrust  to insist on her using a 
CFA as the point of the insurance  policy was to cover her legal costs   and the panel  
solicitors hadnt needed  one. Miss S said it was unreasonable that her costs before issuing 
proceedings appeared not to be covered by the policy  but she was ready to issue 
proceedings in any event.
Amtrust said the policy terms were clear  that it didnt  have to appoint  the solicitor of Miss S 
choice until proceedings were  about to be issued, and it wasnt possible to offer her another 
panel firm due to her unreasonable conduct  it thought that she might  ignore their advice in 
the future.  And Amtrust said Miss S wasnt ready  to issue court proceedings as she didnt  
have any independent medical evidence,  and there  was no guarantee she would win her 
case or recover all her legal costs, which was why it wanted to use a CFA.
Amtrust also said the panel solicitor had been  acting under a collective CFA, and it required 
non-panel solicitors  to act without a success fee to ensure Miss S got all her damages if she 
won, but if Miss S was willing to have her damages reduced, then it would allow a non-panel 
solicitor to claim a success fee, to be paid by her. It also said it wasnt willing to waive the 
requirements of the policy, but accepted a lien wasnt  needed  as the panel solicitors had 
agreed to waive  their costs.
Miss S complained to us. She said she had acted reasonably  and it was unreasonable  for 
Amtrust to refuse to appoint a new panel solicitor due to her previous behaviour. She said 
she had promised not to contact the other side again  without contacting Amtrust first. And 
she said the panel solicitor had dealt  with her claim so poorly, Amtrust should have 
appointed a new panel solicitor. Finally, she said getting medical evidence was part of the 
process of getting  ready to issue proceedings.
Ref: DRN14766072Amtrust said Miss S had breached the terms of the policy and may have  caused  it prejudice 
if a wasted costs application  was made by the other  side due to her conduct.  It thought  she 
would act in the same way in the future. Amtrust  also said the type of claim she was making 
was subject to fixed  costs, and so it would have to pay for the extra costs caused by her 
behaviour (as a new solicitor would need to review the file) if the complaint was upheld.
Amtrust confirmed that its panel solicitors acted under  a collective CFA, but offered to extend 
the policy to cover non-panel solicitors acting  before proceedings were  issued,  if they did so 
under the CFA previously  required  (or if Miss S agreed to pay any success  fee charged). C 
rejected the offer and said Amtrust should appoint panel solicitors.
Our investigator didnt  think Amtrust had acted fairly  and thought  it should  appoint another  
panel firm, though he said if Miss S acted in the same way again,  the position  might change.  
Amtrust disagreed with the investigators view. C said Miss S agreed with the investigators  
findings but she should also receive compensation for the trouble and upset she had 
suffered, and should be reimbursed her legal costs  in bringing the complaint. The 
investigator didnt  agree.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Another ombudsman  reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision. She didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. She said although  Amtrust could appoint panel 
solicitors, that didnt mean it couldnt choose to allow Miss S to appoint  her own solicitors 
She said it was reasonable for Amtrust  to consider Miss S was in breach of the policy terms 
and its decision to accept  what  the solicitors said was reasonable in the circumstances. So 
Amtrust could, strictly speaking,  withdraw cover altogether but hadnt done that  it had 
offered the same  terms that would apply  to panel  solicitors, which  wasnt  unreasonable,  and 
agreed Miss S could pay a success fee if she wished.  She said there was no evidence  
Miss S couldnt find a non-panel firm to act on that basis.
The ombudsman also thought that, if Miss S didnt  have  medical  evidence  then she wasnt  
ready to issue court  proceedings, but Amtrust had offered to allow the work needed to issue 
proceedings to be covered by the policy, provided its terms of business were  accepted.  She 
thought Amtrusts offer was fair, and took into account that while it wasnt  certain Amtrusts 
position had been prejudiced by Miss S actions and breach of the policy, until the 
proceedings were  concluded, no-one  could  know  the full consequences of what  had 
happened.
Miss S didnt accept  the provisional decision. C provided further comments  on her
behalf. Since these  comments  are very lengthy and detailed I have summarised them, as
follows:
It was the panel firm which acted unreasonably,  not Miss S  she only contacted  the 
other side very reluctantly after the panel firm left her with no real choice.
At the heart of the complaint is the fact Amtrust expected Miss S to engage in and 
continue misleading  and improper  conduct  by acting on the panel firms incorrect  
advice. She has never suggested  the panel  firm had to accept whatever instructions  
she gave them; the point is they were  acting improperly and she shouldnt be 
expected to go along with that.
Miss S had never  received the policy terms which  means Amtrust cannot  prove  that 
any particular terms were incorporated  into the contract  with her (though its not 
disputed that cover would be subject to reasonable conditions;  its not a free for all).
Ref: DRN14766073Miss S wasnt made aware at the outset of any significant limitation on the cover 
provided; any information about  the possible use of a CFA wasnt clear, fair and not 
misleading and she only became  aware of this after making the claim.
From  the outset, once  the panel  firm withdrew,  Miss S asked for another  panel firm to 
be appointed;  the provisional  decisions findings that she wanted her own firm to act, 
and only requested a panel firm later on, are wrong.
The provisional decision was also wrong  to say Miss S or C had claimed Amtrust was 
obliged to appoint  another panel firm; they only said it should  allow  another  panel 
firm to act for practical reasons.
The firm M that Miss S contacted  only declined to act because Amtrust  imposed 
unreasonable terms, including a CFA with no success  fee; their decision had nothing 
to do with Miss Ss behaviour. They would not be persuaded to accept the terms on 
offer and theres no reason  to believe another firm of solicitors would either.
The panel firms advice was wrong  and improper, and it was wrong for Amtrust to rely 
on it.
If Amtrust  hadnt kept insisting on a CFA, it wouldnt have been necessary to 
complain  Miss S would have engaged another firm of solicitors to act for her and 
her personal injury claim would probably have been concluded by now.
The policy terms say theres no cover for legal costs of the appointed representative  
where the claim is being pursued under a CFA  so a CFA wouldnt  in fact be 
allowed under  the policy terms.
Its unreasonable to reject the complaint on the basis of some possible  prejudice that 
might perhaps happen in the future, for example that a wasted costs order might  be 
made.
Amtrust says Miss S doesnt have  the freedom to choose her own solicitors until the 
point where she is ready  to issue court  proceedings but that misses the point that she 
didnt wish to choose non-panel  solicitors  she was forced to do this by Amtrust.
The complaint was passed  to me to consider.  In view of the extensive further comments  I 
issued a provisional decision to allow both sides to comment  before making a final decision.
In the provisional  decision  my findings  were as follows:
As Ive mentioned  above, Miss Ss solicitors have provided very detailed comments. Whilst I 
have considered everything  they have said, I dont  think its necessary to comment  in detail  
on every  single point  they have  made in my decision. I have focused  on whats at the heart  
of the complaint and those issues I need  to consider when deciding how to resolve it, 
bearing in mind our aim is to resolve  complaints informally. Likewise, where they have  
referred to legal points  I have taken these into account. But, although I must take account  of 
the law, I am not deciding this complaint in the same way that a court  would; rather, Im 
deciding whats fair and reasonable.
The policy provides cover for legal costs of pursuing  a personal injury claim,  which  is the 
claim Miss S wished  to make. But  as with all insurance  there are some  conditions and 
exclusions that may limit that cover. Amongst other things,  the policy terms say;
The policyholder  must  fully co-operate with Amtrust and the appointed solicitors;
theres no cover where  the policyholders  actions prejudice Amtrusts position or 
where they cause  delay or fail to respond  to requests for assistance from Amtrust or 
from the appointed solicitors;
the policyholder  may only appoint their own choice of solicitors at the point where 
proceedings need to be issued.
Ref: DRN14766074Amtrust accepted Miss S claim and appointed  panel solicitors to act for her. So I dont think 
theres any dispute that she was entitled  to cover for her claim. But Amtrust says Miss S 
failed to act in accordance with the panel solicitors advice and this led to those solicitors  
refusing to act for her. On this basis, Amtrust says she was in breach of the policy  terms.
Miss S says its not appropriate to conclude that she acted unreasonably by contacting the 
other partys insurer, as that needs to be considered in light of the circumstances that led her 
to take that action. She disputes  the panel  firms  comments and says they were at fault,  not 
her. C say the previous  ombudsman accepted  at face-value whatever the panel solicitors  did 
and deemed any departure from their advice by Miss S to be unreasonable, which is the 
wrong approach  to take. And they say this pre-determined the outcome of any investigation 
or complaint about the panel solicitors actions.
Its not for me to review  the panel firms actions or determine whether they breached  any of 
their responsibilities; thats  a matter to be dealt  with through their procedures.  I can only 
consider Amtrusts actions in dealing with the insurance claim. So the question for me is 
simply whether it was reasonable for Amtrust  to act on what the panel  firm reported. In my 
view, it was. I would generally expect an insurer to act on the basis  of legal advice  received.  
The panel  firm set out their explanation of events and why they felt the relationship between 
them and Miss S had broken down. I appreciate Miss S has a different view. But from 
Amtrusts point of view,  presented with that explanation, it was reasonable to review  matters. 
And I think it was entitled to conclude  based on the information  presented  at that point  
that Miss S was in breach of the policy terms.
The question then is whether the action Amtrust took in response to that was reasonable.  In 
circumstances where  a relationship between client and solicitor  has broken down its 
generally good practice for the insurer to give the policyholder at least  one chance with a 
different solicitor. So even  though, strictly speaking,  there might  be a breach of the policy  
terms, Id usually expect  an insurer to work with the policyholder  to see if alternative  
solicitors could be instructed.
Amtrust didnt do this; it said it would not instruct another panel firm and, although it agreed 
to consider a solicitor  of Miss S choice, would only appoint them once she was ready  to 
issue proceedings. Amtrust says it wasnt obliged to offer anything at all, since  Miss S was in 
breach of the policy terms,  but made this offer in the interest of treating a customer  fairly.
A policyholder wouldnt normally  be entitled to choose their own solicitors until the point 
where they can issue proceedings. But in this case  insisting that solicitors could only be 
appointed at that point  meant that in effect  Miss S was left without cover. I dont think  
Amtrusts proposal did in fact treat Miss S fairly.
Amtrust also says Miss S actions may have prejudiced the case. I dont think that in itself 
was enough reason to refuse  to provide  cover at that point. I might come  to a different view if 
her actions had actually caused  prejudice  but I dont think the possibility prejudice  might be 
caused in future is sufficient.
Taking all of this into account,  my view is that the fair thing to do for Miss S would have been 
for Amtrust  to find another solicitor at that point. Had it found  another  panel firm, they could 
have continued  to act under the usual terms agreed  with Amtrust. I dont think  the offer it 
made later on  that Miss S could choose her own solicitors but only at the point of issuing  
proceedings, and only if they acted on the same terms (using  a CFA with no success  fee)  
was reasonable.  The solicitors she wished  to instruct were not prepared to act on that basis 
Ref: DRN14766075and its difficult to see why another non-panel firm would  do so. And its correct  that the 
policy terms say theres  no cover for legal costs of the appointed representative where the 
claim is being pursued under a CFA. So that wouldnt have been in line with the policy terms 
either.
So my view is that the fair thing for Amtrust  to have  done at that point would have been to 
agree to another panel firm acting  for Miss S.
Having said that, I still need to consider whether Miss S has lost out as a result  of not being 
represented. She says she wasnt in a position where she could issue proceedings without  
cover under the policy. So it would be of no use now to direct Amtrust to appoint solicitors. 
Miss S says as she wasnt able to pursue the case,  she should be compensated for loss of 
chance.
I appreciate that without  legal representation  Miss S was in a difficult  position. But she says 
she was ready to issue proceedings. I would expect  any complainant  to take steps to keep  
their losses  to a minimum, and in these  circumstances  its reasonable to expect Miss S to 
protect her position. If she was ready  to issue proceedings, she could have issued a claim at 
court herself. Or she could have instructed another firm of solicitors to act for her under  a 
CFA. Either way, she could have  avoided missing the limitation  date. If further legal work 
was necessary, that could then have been done  after the proceedings were issued; in the 
meantime, she would  have protected her position. Im not satisfied that she couldnt have 
taken any of these  steps.  Had she done  so, she would now be able to continue the legal 
action with solicitors acting for her, whether  under the policy or through a CFA. So although 
shes now lost the chance to pursue her claim I dont think thats  entirely down to Amtrusts 
actions.
Having said that, I do think Amtrust  should  have offered a panel firm. If it had done so, 
Miss S would not have been put in the position where she had to consider pursuing  the legal 
action herself or instructing her own solicitors. No doubt it was difficult  for her to be put in 
that situation. As well as the distress caused by this, she was also put to some  trouble 
having to pursue the matter with Amtrust,  which could have been avoided. So I think it would 
be reasonable to pay some compensation for this. The figure  I have in mind is £250. 
replies to the provisional decision
C have replied to the provisional decision on behalf of Miss S. They say if Amtrust had not 
prevented her from having legal cover, she would not have been left in the position  where  
she was unable to pursue  her personal  injury  claim.  And they consider Amtrust  should be 
held responsible for any losses  she has suffered  as a result,  saying it would not be fair or 
reasonable to conclude  that Miss S contributed to the situation by failing to issue  
proceedings herself  she had no intention of bringing the personal injury claim herself and 
could only have done so if legal expenses  cover was in place. They also say Miss S should 
be compensated for her legal costs of being assisted by C in bringing this complaint. Finally,  
they say the proposed sum of £250  compensation for the distress and upset caused  to her is 
derisory and a more  reasonable sum would  be £65,000.
C have also referred to another complaint being  brought by a relative of Miss S; he was 
involved in the same accident and also wished to pursue a personal injury claim.  They  have 
put forward points  in respect of both complaints, which overlap to some extent. I am dealing 
with the other complaint separately and in this decision I will only comment on those aspects 
that are relevant  to Miss S.
Ref: DRN14766076my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C have again  provided very detailed comments on my provisional decision. Whilst I have 
considered everything  they have said, I dont think its necessary to comment  in detail on 
every single point. There  are two key issues I need  to decide:
whether Miss S should  be compensated for the loss of chance  as a result  of missing  
the limitation date for issuing her personal injury claim  and her legal  costs  relating to 
this complaint; and
whether she should be awarded  more than £250 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused to her.
I have focused  on these issues when deciding how to resolve the complaint.
C say Miss S couldnt  have issued proceedings herself  she was only ready to issue  the 
claim in the sense she was willing to go ahead, but the proceedings werent in fact oven 
ready as C puts it. They  say more work would have been needed, including getting  medical  
evidence. And they say in any event it was too risky for her deal with it on her own;  she 
wasnt a lawyer and didnt have the expertise to take this on herself  and deal with all the 
work that would be needed once proceedings were issued. She only ever intended to 
proceed if she had legal expenses cover and without that, she would never have pursued 
the case as she couldnt afford to do so.
More fundamentally,  C says Miss S was not under any duty to mitigate  her losses  the fault 
lay with Amtrust and she should not be penalised  for any failure to take action herself, 
particularly as she was acting under legal advice from C.
I dont doubt that the situation was very difficult for Miss S and it would not have been easy 
to deal with the court  procedures. Having  said that, she was aware for some  time of the 
limitation date. When C contacted this service some months  before  the limitation date about 
when a decision might  be made on the complaint, we explained  that it might not happen 
before the limitation date and it was for Miss S to consider how to protect her position. She 
had plenty of time to consider how to proceed. As explained in the provisional decision,  there  
were options  available. And she was being advised by C who have some experience in 
personal injury claims. C say it was not simply a question of issuing a claim and then dealing  
with further work afterwards  there  was too much  that needed to be done in terms of 
gathering evidence before issuing. And she would have been at risk of costs penalties.  
Their comments on these  points are extensive and I have  considered  them carefully.  Some 
of their comments appear contradictory.  I note they have at other  times said she was ready 
and willing to issue; and that a medical report wasnt needed to start proceedings. They have 
also said it wouldnt even be necessary to issue proceedings  where a request to issue  is 
received by the court before the limitation  date but a claim is only actually issued after that 
date, the standard court practice  is that it is treated as having  been issued in time. They 
have also argued  that a CFA would have been of no help but have said that since  liability  
was already admitted she was very likely  to win her case and a no win outcome was highly  
unlikely.
Ref: DRN14766077I appreciate there may have been  some risk and costs involved but its not unusual for a 
party to issue protective proceedings to avoid missing a limitation date. On the information 
provided, in my judgment it would have been  possible  for Miss S to do this. If she had such  a 
strong case, she might have taken out an after the event policy to protect her costs  
exposure alongside a CFA. And as C has come to an arrangement with her in relation to her 
costs of them acting  in this complaint, that might also have  been  an option if they had 
assisted her in preparing the court papers. Alternatively, if she really werent able to pursue  
the case she could  have discontinued.  If she had only issued protective  proceedings and 
then withdrew the claim soon after issuing (possibly  even before proceedings were  served  
on the other side)  her costs exposure would have been limited.
C say there  was no duty to mitigate her loss. Amongst other things, they have referred  to a 
number of court judgments about  costs  penalties and when these might be applied. I have 
considered these but dont think they are relevant  to this situation.  I would expect any 
complainant to take steps to keep  their losses to a minimum  and in these  circumstances its 
reasonable to expect  her to protect  her position. Where  a business makes a mistake, that 
doesnt mean the policyholder can simply do nothing  and allow  the loss or harm  to continue, 
if that could be avoided. Its a well-established  principle  that in such circumstances they are 
expected to take steps to minimise the harm and in my judgment theres no reason why that 
principle should  not apply  here.
Finally, C say the actions  of the panel  firm are part of the complaint and should  be taken into 
account. They argue  that the panel  firm wasnt  acting reasonably  and it was wrong  to expect  
Miss S to go along  with that. In their view, Amtrust should not have accepted that the 
solicitors were acting reasonably and as this was relevant to Amtrusts decision, it should be 
taken into account   failing to do so is unreasonable and perverse.  I have taken into account 
the position regarding the claim and the dispute between Miss S and the panel solicitors.  I 
addressed this in the provisional  decision and explained why I dont think  Amtrust acted 
unreasonably.
C have also said Amtrust failed to follow guidance  from this service and obtain  counsels 
advice when challenged on the advice from the panel solicitors. Id expect  an insurer  to do 
that in some circumstances, most typically where  panel solicitors have advised  that a claim 
does not have a reasonable chance of success and the policyholder  has contrary  advice 
from another solicitor  saying it does. Standard practice then would be to get counsels 
advice. But that wasnt the situation  here.  I wouldnt expect them to seek  counsels advice 
simply because the relationship between the policyholder and solicitors  had broken down. 
Having considered all the further comments from C, it remains my view that, while  Amtrust  
was at fault, Miss S could  have avoided missing the limitation date by taking reasonable 
steps to protect  her position.  So it should not have to compensate her for the loss of chance. 
With regard to her legal costs of bringing  this complaint, its rare for these to be awarded. We 
are an informal service  and complaints dont need to be argued in the same way that a court  
case might  be. There was nothing particularly unusual or complex about the matter that 
meant she needed solicitors to bring  the complaint to us and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect  Amtrust to have  to pay for this. As for the distress and inconvenience,  
in concluding  that £250 would be fair, I took into account the circumstances at the time. The 
key point is not what went wrong,  but what the impact was on Miss S. Although the situation  
would have been upsetting, the real harm  to her is in missing  the limitation date. As Ive 
explained, I think that could have been avoided. So the compensation is meant  to address 
the upset caused to her by being left in the position of not having cover  and the 
Ref: DRN14766078inconvenience she was caused during that period leading up to the limitation date. Its 
intended to acknowledge that was put in a difficult position at that point.
For these reasons, and the reasons already set out in the provisional decision, it remains  my 
view that the complaint  should be upheld to the limited extent that Miss S was caused  some 
distress and inconvenience and a payment of £250  is fair compensation for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Amtrust Europe Limited to pay 
compensation of £250 to Miss S for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March  2021.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476607