K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank  Plc (Sainsburys) failed to set up a direct debit 
correctly, causing  problems with his credit  card account.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February  2019,  a copy of which  is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. Sainsburys have agreed to my provisional  findings. But Mr T 
wasnt happy with my provisional decision  and raised some points for me to consider, which  
Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised Mr Ts concerns below.
Mr T remains concerned about the effect  of the information Sainsburys recorded on 
his credit file. Hes not satisfied that Sainsburys have  only contacted the three main 
credit reference agencies. He says they should contact every credit reference  
business in the UK and ask them to remove  all entries which say his payment status 
was worsening and improving. He wants Sainsburys to confirm in writing  when they 
have done this.
Mr T is also unhappy that the Sainsburys card isnt showing at all on the credit 
reports he obtained. He thinks there  needs  to be an explanation of why its not 
showing on his file now and says that this is a mistake which  needs  correcting.
Mr T isnt happy with the compensation of £150 which  I proposed. He doesnt  think  
its enough to reflect the impact this situation  has had on him.
Ive listened to the call Mr T had with our adjudicator after he received my provisional  
decision. Ive also read the emails and considered all the information  he provided.
I referred in my provisional decision to the reports which  Mr T received last summer, 
showing his payment status as worsening and then improving.  I invited Mr T to let me know  
of any ongoing  issues with this. He has provided a more recent  report, from the same 
business. This includes two new entries for December 2018 but neither of these  relate to the 
Sainsburys credit  card. The historic entries  on that report  are unchanged.  That is, the 
entries for June and August  2018 say payment status worsening and the entry  for 
September 2018 says payment status  improving. 
So there isnt anything new and adverse on the latest report  which relates  to the Sainsburys 
credit card. But Mr T is unhappy because the entries  for June, August and September  are 
still on the report. I understand that what he wants is for these entries (along with any other 
similar entries recorded by any other  businesses)  to be deleted  altogether.
I cant direct  the credit  reporting business  to delete entries from its records.  Thats because 
this isnt a complaint against that business,  but against Sainsburys.  As I explained in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that Sainsburys are now reporting correctly to the three  
Ref: DRN18027132main credit reference agencies. But Mr T is asking  that they write to any and every credit 
reference business in the UK telling  them  to delete the adverse entries.  I dont think  thats a 
reasonable or proportionate step in the circumstances of this complaint. And, even  if 
Sainsburys did do that, we cant be sure that those  unidentified businesses  would comply 
with the request anyway. 
However, I realise this is a source of great  concern to Mr T and he is very upset about  the 
situation. What I think would be a more practical way of approaching it would be for 
Sainsburys to write  a letter, on their headed notepaper, explaining that the adverse entries 
about Mr Ts credit card were recorded in error. If Mr T is ever in a situation where these 
historic, adverse entries  are causing  problems for him with a third party business, he will 
then be able to produce the letter from Sainsburys to confirm that it was a mistake.
As to the fact that the Sainsburys card isnt showing at all on Mr Ts credit  reports now,  Im 
unable to explain why thats the case.  The information Ive seen  from Sainsburys  confirms 
that they are reporting on the card. So I cant conclude that the absence of the card on the 
reports is due to a mistake by them. And all Im looking at here is the actions of Sainsburys, 
not any other organisation.
Ive then considered  the level of compensation. I havent seen anything which changes my 
mind about  whats appropriate here. Ive listened to everything Mr T has said.  I think his 
concerns about  the credit  reports would be addressed by Sainsburys writing  a letter as 
outlined above.  As to the overall  impact of the situation, I asked Sainsburys whether they 
would agree to pay more  than £150  but they said no. But as I still think  compensation of 
£150 is a fair amount, Im not going  to direct Sainsburys  to pay more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc must:
pay to Mr T the sum of £150 (less anything it has already paid to him); and
send to Mr T a letter on its headed notepaper confirming that the adverse entries on 
his credit file regarding the credit card were  recorded  in error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18027133copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) failed to set up a direct debit  correctly, 
causing problems  with his credit card account.
background
In early 2018, Mr T opened  a credit  card account with Sainsburys. At the time of opening the account, 
he completed the paperwork for a direct  debit  to be set up to make  monthly payments on to the credit 
card account.  But Sainsburys didnt set up the direct  debit properly so no payments were made.
When Mr T received  his April credit card statement,  it showed no payments towards the account. A 
late payment  fee of £12 had been added and the minimum payment required was showing as 
£140.79. When  Mr T received the statement, he called  Sainsburys straight away. He made  a debit 
card payment of £140.79  over the phone. This payment  was taken from his current  account  two days  
later but it wasnt applied to the credit card account.  
Sainsburys treated the account as being in arrears. This meant that they suspended the cards  
promotional offers and applied late payment  charges to the account.  They also sent several letters  to 
Mr T saying that he had failed  to make payment  and demanding immediate  payment. Mr T says he 
found these letters very distressing. 
Mr T complained to Sainsburys and they acknowledged there had been a problem.  A system  error 
within Sainsburys meant that the debit card payment hadnt been applied to   Mr Ts credit card 
account. But the payment  was later located by Sainsburys and credited  to the account  in May 2018. 
Following Mr Ts complaint,  Sainsburys set up the direct debit, reinstated the promotional offers  and 
refunded the late payment charges. They  also said they would amend Mr Ts credit file to remove any 
late payment  markers  which  had been added. They offered  compensation of £75 to reflect the poor 
service Mr T had received.
But Mr T didnt think they had done enough  to acknowledge the upset  and inconvenience which  they 
had caused him. He felt they had handled the situation very badly and that their mistakes had put him 
in a difficult position. He had spent a lot of time trying  to sort things out, including some  long periods 
on hold on the phone to Sainsburys. He didnt feel that Sainsburys had recognised  the impact their 
mistakes had on him. He was also concerned about his credit file being adversely affected  and 
wanted Sainsburys to put that right straight away.
Our adjudicator looked  into it and thought that Sainsburys needed  to do more to put things right.  He 
didnt think they had really considered the impact  of their mistakes  on Mr T. He also noted that the 
Sainsburys credit card was not showing at all on Mr Ts credit  file and thought  it likely that, in 
attempting to remove any adverse entries, Sainsburys had removed the card altogether. So he 
recommended that Sainsburys pay £250 to Mr T in recognition of their errors and to apologise for the 
distress and inconvenience  they had caused him. 
Sainsburys didnt agree.  They  said that each of the credit reference  agencies (CRA)  is showing the 
account as being live and they have since sent evidence to us to show the information they have 
recorded with the CRAs. So they said that, if the card isnt showing on    Mr Ts credit file, it isnt their 
fault. They  also thought  the level of compensation recommended by the adjudicator was too high. So 
the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN18027134Sainsburys accept that they made mistakes with setting  up the direct debit and with the manual 
payment of £140.79 going  astray. So I wont go over the detail  of that in my decision.  What Ill focus 
on instead is whether Sainsburys have done enough to put things right and whether there is any 
ongoing impact on Mr T.
The information Ive seen shows that the direct debit is now up and running. I understand that the late 
payment and interest charges which were applied as a result of Sainsburys mistakes have been 
refunded. And the balance  transfer promotions have been reinstated. So in terms of the day to day 
running of the credit  card account, Im satisfied that the mistakes have  been corrected and Mr T is no 
longer out of pocket.
But I think there  does also need to be a payment of compensation  to Mr T for the trouble and distress 
which this situation  caused  him. The issue I need to consider is what the amount of that 
compensation should be. In a situation like this, its very difficult  to put a monetary value on the upset  
which someone has been  made to feel because of a mistake, as well as the inconvenience of it and 
the time they have spent  dealing with it. I agree  with our adjudicator that £75 (which Sainsburys had 
offered) is too low here. But I think that the £250  which  our adjudicator recommended is too high. Ill 
explain why below.
When deciding on the level of compensation, our adjudicator took into account the following mistakes 
which he said Sainsburys had made: (a) failure  to set up the direct debit at the outset, (b) 
misplacement of the manual payment,  (c) sending  letters to Mr T about  missed  payments, and (d) 
amending Mr Ts credit file causing the credit  card account to be removed from it entirely. I agree that 
mistakes (a)  (c) were  made  and that Mr T should be compensated for these.  But Im not satisfied 
that Sainsburys did make  the mistake about the credit file and Ill explain why.
Sainsburys told Mr T that they had amended  his credit file to remove any late marks  for April and May 
2018. I think  it was fair for them to do this, as any negative reporting  on the card at that time was due 
to their mistakes. Sainsburys said in their final response letter in           May 2018 that they had made  
the amendments to the credit file. I havent seen anything to make me think they didnt do this when  
they said they did. 
Sainsburys told Mr T that it could take the CRAs up to 60 days  to amend their records.  It seems that 
they may have taken  a while to do this, because  Mr T received a free credit report  over the summer 
which made reference  to a late payment  and to his payment status worsening. This was of course 
distressing for Mr T, particularly  as the situation was not of his own making.  He rightly pointed  out 
that, if he had applied for credit at that time, prospective lenders would  have had access  to that 
information and it could have  affected his chances of getting credit.  I agree  that could have been the 
case. But I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr T did apply for credit at that time and suffered 
negative consequences. So I dont think Mr T has suffered a financial loss resulting from any entries 
on his credit file at this time.
In September, Mr T received  a free credit report  showing  his payment status was improving.  This 
suggests the information had been corrected. He obtained credit reports from one of the CRAs in 
September and October,  but these made no reference at all to the Sainsburys credit  card. Our 
adjudicator thought that this was a result of Sainsburys removing adverse  information  from Mr Ts 
credit file. He thought that another  mistake had been made and that all record of the card had been 
removed. I havent seen any evidence to support that view.
Sainsburys have confirmed that they are reporting on the card to all three CRAs. They have provided 
screen shots which confirm this. These show that the status of the account  is active  and that 
payments are being received on time. So if there is a mistake with the credit file, meaning that the 
credit card is not showing,  I cant safely conclude  that its due a mistake by Sainsburys. So it wouldnt 
be fair to ask them to pay compensation for this. 
Ive considered whether,  as a result of some amendments made  by Sainsburys to the credit file, there  
could have been a temporary issue meaning  the card wasnt showing  on Mr Ts report  for a period  of 
Ref: DRN18027135time. I dont have any evidence to support that view. But, even  if it were the case, I cant see that it 
has had a negative  impact on Mr T in any tangible sense. Not recording the card is not the same as 
recording adverse data. And any overall  impact on     Mr Ts credit score  is likely to have been 
negligible.
Our adjudicator has said that if Mr T has any further concerns about the credit report,  the issue will be 
investigated further.  I havent received any updated information from Mr T about  this, so I assume he 
has no ongoing concerns.  If the situation has changed, he will have the opportunity to respond to this 
provisional decision  and provide further information.
So, for the reasons above, my provisional view is that Sainsburys dont  need to compensate Mr T for 
mistakes made in connection with his credit file, other than for the distress  caused to him by the 
temporary, adverse reporting and the associated inconvenience of dealing with that. I understand that 
the experience  was very upsetting for Mr T and has been a source  of worry to him.
So I think Sainsburys need to pay a sum of money which compensates Mr T for the following: (a) 
failure to set up the direct  debit at the outset, (b) misplacement of the manual payment, (c) sending 
letters to Mr T about missed  payments, and (d) the upset caused by these  mistakes and the 
considerable amount of time and inconvenience  Mr T has been put to in dealing with them.
I think  a total sum of £150 would be a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Sainsburys Bank 
plc must now pay to Mr T the sum of £150 (less  anything it has already paid to him).
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1802713