K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws unhappy with Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds decision to cease paying her 
claim and remove her from cover.  
background
Mrs W has a group  income protection policy through her employer. She brings her complaint 
in her capacity as a beneficiary under this policy. 
Mrs W has long suffered  with back pain and has been unable  to return  to work since  2012. 
She has undergone  a number of treatments to try and correct this, including  a nerve block,  
facet joint injections, a fusion procedure  and disc decompression  all of which, she said,  
hadnt worked. Mrs Ws claim was originally accepted in March  2013 but then terminated at 
the beginning of April 2016, following covert surveillance carried out by Aviva.  
Mrs W said the footage  is not representative  of her symptoms and that Aviva  should 
reinstate her claim because  shes too unwell to return to work. 
Aviva said it based its decision to terminate the claim and remove  Mrs W from cover 
because of what the footage showed. And that after it shared this with the specialist whod 
previously said she was unfit for work,  his medical  opinion subsequently changed. Aviva 
decided to reinstate  Mrs Ws cover because it accepted  shed not intentionally mis-led it 
about her symptoms. But it would not reinstate her claim.
Our investigator found that Aviva  had relied  on medical evidence before deciding to cease 
paying her claim. He noted Mrs W contested  the surveillance footage and said it was not 
representative of her abilities. But he ultimately felt this, alongside the specialists 
subsequent report, persuaded him that Aviva  had not acted unfairly.    
Mrs W didnt agree with these findings and has asked for an ombudsman to consider  her 
case. In summary,  she said;
The subsequent  specialists report is inaccurate  and therefore  the decision to cease 
paying her claim should not be based  on this;
Aviva  changed its position  and reinstated  her cover  showing it got things  wrong 
initially and so it should now reinstate her payments. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Before I explain why I wanted to assure  Mrs W that Ive 
considered all the arguments shes made, but I wont respond to each and every point, 
rather, Ill refer only to those I consider to be material in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Before reaching my decision, Ive considered whats happened and whether Aviva has acted 
in line with the Insurance Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (ICOBs) as this sets out how 
insurers should handle  claims. To be clear, it says that an insurer  must not reject  a claim 
Ref: DRN10334102unreasonably and that it should handle claims promptly and fairly. Aviva decided  to cease 
paying Mrs Ws claim and so Ive considered its reasons for doing so. 
Aviva had been paying Mrs Ws claim for around  three years. During  this time, its not 
disputed that she was unwell, particularly at the beginning of this timeframe.  But what has 
been challenged, is whether Mrs W continued  to meet  the terms of the policy,  that is to say 
whether she is incapacitated and unable to perform the material duties of her insured 
occupation. 
Mrs W has made clear  arguments about  why she believes shes unable to do this, but so too 
has the treating  specialist.  He first assessed  Mrs W in October 2015 and then subsequently 
assessed the surveillance footage  approximately six months later in March 2016. In his initial 
assessment, the specialist concluded  Mrs W was unfit for work. He noted she could only 
shop for 10 minutes  before having  to sit down and that she always shopped  with her 
husband who carried everything.  Mrs W also explained she didnt shop at large 
supermarkets because she couldnt  stand  for extended periods of time.
But the surveillance footage, once shared with the specialist, changed his opinion  of Mrs Ws 
case. Particularly as it showed her visiting a large supermarket, moving and emptying trollies 
with relative ease and loading  her car with heavy items. He also noted Mrs W had previously  
told him she was unable to bend  and lift below the knee or above shoulder  height. And yet 
the footage captured  her doing this. This resulted in the specialist concluding that Mrs W 
was fit to return to work and that she had showed substantially greater functional  ability  than 
previously reported.  Its because of this I think Aviva was entitled  to stop paying her claim.
I know Mrs W highlighted that Aviva initially  decided  to remove  her from cover altogether 
before changing  its position. And I understand the connection shes  making here about it 
reinstating her payments  under the policy. But Im not persuaded by it. Avivas  decision to 
add her back on cover is entirely  different to reinstating payments under her claim.  Aviva 
said it believed Mrs W didnt deliberately try to claim money for which  she was not entitled. 
But thats not to say that she continues to meet the terms of its policy.  The evidence  it 
gathered suggests  the issues she faced with her back  have now greatly improved. And to a 
point where shes  now able to perform  the substantial duties of her insured occupation  
which to be clear is a sedentary role.   
Ive considered Mrs Ws post-surveillance comments along with the most recent medical 
report she provided. But Im not persuaded that Aviva should  reinstate the payments  under 
her claim. I say this because Mrs Ws claim was related to mechanical back  pain following 
failed surgery. But the prognosis was that this should get better in time.  This was described 
by a different  treating specialist  during an assessment  in April 2013, following her disc 
decompression and again in January 2014,  where  it was described she could potentially  
return to work within a year. This is further  supported by the most recent report submitted by 
Mrs W where she said that she had anticipated returning to work with support. Only now is 
unable to pending further treatment for her throat  condition.   
I know Mrs W disputed  this and I agree that surveillance footage should not be considered  
on its own and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  it has. The specialist is clear that 
from the evidence  hes considered, Mrs W is now able to perform  the tasks  associated with a 
sedentary role. And so Aviva was entitled to rely on this information  when  it considered 
terminating her claim. 
Ref: DRN10334103I note there  has been further developments with Mrs Ws health and Im sorry to learn this. 
But I must consider  the original claim she bought to Aviva and this issue appears to have  
been resolved  to a point where  the specialist has said it will no longer prevent her from 
carrying out the responsibilities  of her insured occupation. Any other  reason  preventing  
Mrs W from returning to work will need to be assessed separately through  a new claim. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1033410