K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the service  they received from Nationwide Building Society 
while a fraud  claim was being investigated.
background
Mr and Mrs O reported  a fraud to Nationwide.  A cash withdrawal of £1900  had been  made  
from their account. But it hadnt  been  done by them. Nationwide  initially said someone  had 
impersonated Mr O. But Nationwide then said Mrs Os card had been duplicated. 
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with Nationwides response. They want to know what  happened 
and whose identity  was used. The fraudulent withdrawal also meant a mortgage payment 
was missed. And theyre  concerned it will affect their credit rating. 
Nationwide apologised for its service following the fraud report. And it apologised for any 
stress and upset caused. A counterfeit card had been presented in a branch by someone of 
similar age to Mrs O. The person had provided  her full name, address and date of birth and 
answered a number of security questions.  And the signature appeared to be a match  to the 
one on its records.
Nationwide refunded the missing £1900. And it offered  Mr and Mrs O £100 compensation for 
any confusion caused during the investigation. But it didnt think it could be held responsible 
for the fraud  taking place.
Mr and Mrs O werent satisfied with Nationwides response. So they contacted our service  
and our investigator looked  into the matter. She explained she couldnt  investigate whatd 
happened with the actual  fraud. Nationwide had already  refunded the money  and recognised 
it was fraudulent activity.  But she could look at the service Nationwide had given  Mr and 
Mrs O and whatd happened  with the mortgage payment.
She could  see the fraudulent withdrawal had taken place on 16 February 2018. And Mr and 
Mrs O had made Nationwide  aware  the next day. Nationwide re-credited the funds on 
20 February. But the mortgage payment wasnt taken from their account. And she couldnt 
find any evidence Nationwide had said this would happen once the money had been put 
back. She felt Mr and Mrs O shouldve noticed  the money hadnt been  taken.  So she couldnt 
ask Nationwide  to amend  their credit file. And she felt the £100 compensation offered was 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree. They wanted to know how the fraud had been investigated. 
Theyd spent many  hours  dealing with Nationwide. And they wanted  their credit file 
correcting. So theyve  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Os frustration. A large  sum of money was withdrawn from their 
account by someone  impersonating Mrs O. And they want  to know how it happened.  Theyre  
also concerned  the withdrawal will affect their credit file. So Ive looked carefully to see if 
Nationwide needs  to do anything more to put things right.
Ref: DRN15102022Nationwides initial response wasnt of the standard Im sure it aims  for. It failed to cancel 
both cards and caused some confusion over whose identity had been taken. I can see 
Nationwide has offered Mr and Mrs O compensation for its poor response to the reported  
fraud. And I think £100 is a reasonable sum for the distress theyve been caused and the 
effort theyve  put into the matter.
But its important to recognise theres  no evidence to suggest the fraudulent withdrawal  was 
committed because of anything Nationwide did wrong. Someone  was able to obtain  specific 
details about Mr and Mrs Os finances  and their personal life. And they used them  to pass 
Nationwides security  checks. The impersonator  was of a similar age, was able to copy  her 
signature and had previously obtained  a counterfeit card by answering questions  about other 
accounts and payments.  
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs O feel Nationwide shouldve  queried why such a large sum of 
money was being  withdrawn some distance from their home address. And I can see the 
fraudster has been able to make  other  withdrawals more recently using similar techniques.  
So its only natural that Mr and Mrs O want to know who that person is and how theyve been 
able to access their personal  finances.  
But, as our investigator has explained, there are limits to what  we can ask Nationwide to do. 
Nationwide returned  the money to Mr and Mrs Os account within  a few days. And it has 
done the same again following the recent fraud  attempts. So its put right the losses Mr and 
Mrs O have suffered. And that would be the outcome our service would normally  be looking 
for.
Once the fraud was reported to Nationwide it gave the details to a specialist team  to 
continue its investigations. But at that point  Mr and Mrs Os involvement ended. Nationwide  
had all the details  it needed to try and determine what had happened.  And any evidence 
would be given to the police. I recognise  how frustrating it must be. But I cant ask 
Nationwide to give details  of any ongoing investigations or police proceedings.
I can see a mortgage  payment  was missed due to the initial fraud. And Mr and Mrs O are 
upset it has affected  their credit report. The fraud  took place on the 16th which is the date the 
mortgage payment  would normally be taken  from their account.  As the money  wasnt  there, 
the payment failed.  And because the payment was a regular transfer, rather than a direct 
debit, the payment wasnt attempted  again.
While I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs O were under the impression the mortgage payment 
would be presented again once  the stolen money  had been  returned, there isnt anything on 
Nationwides records to confirm it told Mr and Mrs O that was the case.
Mr and Mrs O had just been  subject to a large fraudulent transaction.  So I think  it wouldve 
been reasonable to expect they would monitor their account and payments for some  time 
afterwards to ensure  everything was okay.  And I think there was time for them to notice the 
mortgage payment  hadnt gone through and put things right.  So I cant really  say Nationwide  
has done anything  wrong by reporting  the missed  payment. And it wouldnt be right to ask it 
to remove the marker from their file.
I do sympathise with everything Mr and Mrs O have  been through.  An unknown  third party 
has been able to gain access to their personal  details and bank account. And this mustve  
been very distressing for Mr and Mrs O. 
Ref: DRN15102023But Nationwide has returned the stolen money and offered compensation for its poor 
service. So its put right the loss theyve suffered. And I cant  ask it to provide any more 
details about the fraud  investigations.
I realise Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed with this outcome. But I hope this shows Ive fully 
investigated their complaint and the reasons behind my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1510202