K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about Tesco Personal Finance PLCs handling of his car insurance 
policy.
background
Mr P bought car insurance that started  on 11 October 2018. Tesco were acting as the broker  
and they sold and administered the policy. The actual insurance was provided by a different 
business (the insurer).
Tesco asked  Mr P for proof of his no claims bonus  (NCB). Mr P had nine NCB years  and 
provided proof. Tesco didnt accept that. The reason they gave was that Mr Ps policy with 
the insurer that issued the NCB  proof had ended over 30 days  before his Tesco  policy 
started. Tesco said that during the intervening period Mr P should either have had insurance 
with another insurer  or his car should  have been  declared off road (SORN). They  said there  
shouldnt have been a gap. Tesco felt in the circumstances they couldnt  confirm the NCB 
proof Mr P provided was from his last insurer. As a result,  Tesco told Mr P that he would  
have to pay an additional £120  for his policy because his NCB wouldnt be used.
The policy was cancelled in early  November 2018. Mr P said he cancelled the policy  
although Tesco said they cancelled it. Tesco have confirmed that no external record  of the 
cancellation has been made.  Mr P took out insurance with another  provider. 
Tesco made a refund  to Mr P but they said they charged him for the time he was insured 
which was just under a month. But Tesco got the figures wrong  so they later made a full 
refund. And they paid Mr P £25 compensation for their error.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into it. She felt 
that Tesco hadnt dealt with Mr P reasonably so she recommended that they pay him £100 
compensation. Tesco accepted our investigators  proposal but Mr P didnt. He said Tesco 
should pay him £900 compensation. As Mr P didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. But Im 
not asking Tesco to do anything more as I think £100 compensation as suggested by our 
investigator is reasonable. Ill explain  why.
Mr P said that NCB can be used  up to two years  after his last policy so Tesco  were  wrong to 
impose a 30 day limit. Mr P is indeed correct and in fact some insurers allow NCB to be used  
up to three  years after a policy has ended. But I understand that Tescos point was different. 
What they said was that because there  was a gap of more than 30 days  between  Mr Ps last 
policy ending and the new one starting,  he should  have registered  the car off road. But he 
didnt. Mr P explained that he didnt use his car during that period as he had an operation  
and the car wasnt in use.
But I think the central point is that Tesco didnt make Mr P aware  when he took out the policy 
or in the policy terms and conditions that they wouldnt  accept his NCB in those 
circumstances. Tesco have accepted that. Mr P said had he been  made  aware he wouldnt 
Ref: DRN19149332have taken out the policy. Although Tesco did eventually refund Mr P his full premium  and 
cancellation fee that didnt  happen immediately and Mr P had to ask for that. Mr P said he 
spent a lot of time dealing with Tesco which caused  him distress  and inconvenience. I 
accept that the experience did cause Mr P distress and inconvenience  and to address that I 
think £100 compensation is reasonable.  Thats  because its in line with the amounts of 
compensation our service  awards  for complaints of this seriousness.  I dont  agree  with Mr P 
that £900 compensation is proportionate for what has happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to Mr P £100 compensation.  This should be paid within  28 days of us telling them  that 
Mr P has accepted my final decision.  If they pay later than that they must  also pay interest  
on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.i
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
i If Tesco consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr P how much theyve taken  off. They should also give Mr P a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1914933