K820x#14Complaint
Mrs I complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (trading as Cabot Financial) 
is pursuing her for a debt which it hasnt provided  sufficient  evidence of. She wants  the debt 
to be written off.
Background
Mrs I, represented by a third party, says that Cabot Financial is unfairly chasing her for the 
repayment of a debt.  She says that Cabot Financial isnt entitled to the payment requested. 
Her representative requested various  documents  regarding the debt and Cabot Financials  
rights to the repayment  but says these  havent been provided. Specifically they say Mrs I 
hasnt been provided with a copy of the executed  credit agreement and hasnt been sent a 
satisfactory statement  of account  showing the situation before Cabot Financial took over her 
account. Mrs Is representative says that Cabot Financial  didnt carry out sufficient due 
diligence before acquiring the debt to ensure  the amounts due were  correct and it doesnt 
believe the debt is enforceable.  It says Mrs Is credit file should  be updated to show the loan 
is unenforceable.
Mrs I also says that when  the loan was made  she was in a vulnerable position and that 
inadequate assessments  were  carried out to ensure the affordability of the loan. She feels  
the actions taken by Cabot  Financial  in regard to pursuing  the debts have been aggressive 
and is concerned that additional charges have been  applied.
Cabot Financial says that it acquired two debts relating  to Mrs I, one in relation to a current 
account which was acquired in 2012, and the other  in relation to a loan which it acquired in 
2013. It says that Mrs I was provided  with notices of assignments in regard to the accounts. 
It says that it accepts the debts arent  legally  enforceable due to it not being able to provide 
the requested  information but says this doesnt  mean the debts dont exist nor that Mrs I is 
no longer responsible for the repayments.
Cabot Financial says that Mrs I had acknowledged  the debts by making  the payments based 
on the balances  assigned to it. It says it was assigned  the right to collect the outstanding 
amounts but didnt  assume any responsibility or liability regarding the original lending. It says 
it hasnt tried to enforce  the debts and has collected the repayments informally  and didnt 
accept it had put Mrs I under any undue pressure.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He explained that our service  couldnt say if a 
debt was legally enforceable and could only comment on whether  it was fair for Cabot 
Financial to pursue  Mrs I for the debt.  He said that Mrs I had acknowledged the debt and he 
didnt think that Cabot Financial had done anything wrong by contacting  her about  this. He 
also didnt think it had been aggressive  in its approach. He noted that Cabot Financial  had 
offered the contact  details for a number of different debt charities and advice services.
Our investigator said that Cabot had acquired  the debt from another  company and wasnt 
party to the initial lending decision. He said Mrs I would need  to complain to the original debt 
provider if she wished  to claim  that the loan was provided irresponsibly. He said that Cabot 
financial hadnt added additional charges to Mrs Is account.
Mrs I didnt accept our investigators view.
Ref: DRN18146902My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already explained, it is not our role to say whether or not a debt is 
legally enforceable, only a court can do this. I also note that Cabot Financial has said that 
the debts arent enforceable.
Therefore I have considered whether the Cabot Financial has acted fairly since  it acquired 
Mrs Is accounts.  In regard to contacting Mrs I, I do not find that it was unreasonable that 
Cabot Financial did this. It acquired her accounts  as part of a larger transaction  and provided 
Mrs I with the notice of assignments. Mrs I made payments in regard to the accounts and so 
I do not find that it was unreasonable  for Cabot Financial to consider Mrs I to be aware of the 
debts and accepting  of the amounts due.
I have looked  through  the information provided and based on what I have seen, Cabot 
Financial hasnt made any telephone calls to Mrs I in regard to the accounts and letters  have 
been sent in regard to the current account. The volume of these hasnt been excessive and I 
find the content reasonable. The letters provide information about the account and how to 
get in touch if she has issues with payment. They also provided information  about debt 
charities and advise services. I understand that Cabot Financial hasnt added  charges to the 
accounts.
In regard to the original  lending, Cabot Financial didnt make  the lending  decision and so I 
cannot hold it responsible  for any issues regarding this.
Given the evidence  provided, I do not find that I have enough to uphold  this complaint. As 
explained I have  considered the actions taken by Cabot Financial in regard to its 
management of Mrs Is accounts and cannot comment on the enforceability of the debts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1814690