K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford to repay. She asks that Mr Lender  writes off the remaining loan balance and 
pays compensation for the interest charged  and the adverse affect on her credit file.
background
Ms M took out four loans between April 2012  and May 2014.  She says the loans werent 
affordable and Mr Lender didnt make appropriate  checks before offering the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that part of the complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt  
wrong for Mr Lender to offer loans 1 and 2. But given  the amounts of loans 3 and 4 relative 
to Ms Ms income, Mr Lender should have  known it was unlikely shed be able to meet  the 
repayments sustainably.
Mr Lender didnt agree. It said it assessed  whether the loans were  sustainable  using income 
and expenditure  checks  and credit  checks.  It asked  that we assess  whether the loans were 
sustainable based on factual information  about Ms Ms circumstances.  And explain what  
checks we consider would have been proportionate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Ms M took out the following loans with Mr Lender:
Loan no. Date  of loan Amount  of loan Repayments  due Date repaid
Amount Date due
Loan 1 05.04.2012 £350 £462 30.04.2012 31.05.2012
Loan 2 25.06.2012 £450 £33.75 29.06.2012
£483.75 31.07.2012 28.08.2013
Loan 3 22.04.2014 £500 £575 30.04.2014 14.05.2014
Loan 4 27.05.2014 £650 £845 30.06.2014 Outstanding
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms Ms income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Loans 1 and 2
Ms M told Mr Lender her monthly income  was £1,400. Mr Lender  says it did credit  checks  
which didnt suggest  Ms M would  have any difficulty repaying the loans. Its not clear from 
the information provided that Mr Lender asked  Ms M about  her outgoings. But, given the 
amount of the loans and Ms Ms stated income, I dont think  proportionate checks  would 
Ref: DRN16783692have given it any reason to think the loans werent  affordable or that further checks  were  
needed.
Loans 3 and 4
Ms M had difficulty repaying  loan 2 and Mr Lender  offered her a repayment plan. The loan 
was repaid in August 2013. Ms M didnt  borrow from Mr Lender again until April 2014  
about eight months  later.  
The break in Ms Ms borrowing could  suggest  any problems with her finances had been 
resolved. But the amount of the loan meant Ms M had to make a repayment of £575.  This 
was a significant proportion of her stated income.  And the difficulties shes had repaying  the 
previous loan meant it was finally repaid over a year after its original due date. In the 
circumstances, I think  Mr Lender should  have considered whether a loan of this size was 
sustainable and what further checks were proportionate to ensure this was the case.
I think Mr Lender  should have been aware  there was a real risk that Ms M wouldnt be able 
to meet  her existing  commitments and outgoings and the loan repayment without borrowing 
again. 
I think the same applied when Ms M asked for loan 4  which she took out less than two 
weeks after repaying  loan 3 and was for a larger amount. I think Ms M had to take out loan 4 
to fill the gap in her finances left by the repayment  for loan 3. And Ms M didnt repay loan 4 
when it was due. She told Mr Lender she had financial  difficulties and Mr Lender offered a 
repayment plan.  
Its for Mr Lender to demonstrate that it made  proportionate checks  and that the information  
it received showed  these  loans were affordable and sustainable. I think  proportionate checks 
could include asking  Ms M for information about her usual outgoings and financial 
commitments and her other short  term commitments with evidence  (such as bank  
statements) to support  what she said. By loan 4, I think Mr Lender  should have asked for 
information to gain a full understanding of Ms Gs financial circumstances. I havent seen 
evidence that Mr Lender asked for this.
Mr Lender asked for factual information to show that the loans werent sustainable. I dont 
think thats needed here. Ms M had financial  difficulties which meant  she couldnt make  the 
scheduled repayments for loan 2 or for loan 4: this strongly suggests she was in financial 
difficulty when she took out loans 3 and 4.
I think, the circumstances,  Mr Lender should  have known the loans werent sustainable.  Mr 
Lender hasnt been  able to show that it made checks that demonstrate  it was reasonable for 
it to offer the loans. 
I dont think Mr Lender should have offered loans 3 and 4 to Ms M. So it should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Ms M paid on loans 3 and 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  applied to loans  3 and 4 and apply the refund 
to reduce any capital  outstanding and pay any balance to Ms M; and
Remove any negative  information about loans 3 and 4 from Ms Ms credit  file.
Ref: DRN16783693*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Mr Lender 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Where Mr Lender has sold the outstanding balance of any of these loans to a third party  it 
will need  to ensure that Ms M doesnt repay  any more than the amount she originally 
borrowed. It can buy back any such loan(s) before applying the redress or it can either:
make  a payment  to the third party  which  has the effect of removing any interest included 
on the loan; or
pay the amount  of any interest directly  to Ms M.
If Ms M has made payments to the third party and has paid more  than the amount she 
originally borrowed,  Mr Lender will also need  to clear any outstanding balance with the third 
party and refund any extra (over and above the amount Ms M originally  borrowed) plus 8% 
simple interest from the date the extra amount was paid to the date of settlement. Mr Lender  
should ask the third party to remove any adverse data about the loan from Ms Ms credit file. 
Lastly, Ms M asked  that Mr Lender write off the outstanding balance.  I dont think its fair to 
require this. Ms M took out the loans and had use of the money. I think its right that she 
repays the amount she borrowed.  I dont  know if, after Mr Lender has refunded  interest and 
charges as Ive required, there  will be a capital amount  left to repay. If there is, Id urge Ms M 
to contact Mr Lender about  repaying  it. And Id expect  Mr Lender to treat Ms M fairly in 
agreeing a suitable arrangement for repayment  of the balance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order PDL Finance Limited to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1678369