K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that an account with J D Williams & Company  Limited which was opened in 
2011 and subsequently  defaulted has been registered on his credit file. Mr S says he didnt 
open the account and that he has never lived at the address the account is registered  to.
background
In February 2018  Mr S applied for a credit card. The application  was rejected due to adverse 
information on Mr Ss credit file. 
On checking his credit file, Mr S discovered  that a default had been registered  in relation to a 
J D Williams account  opened in 2011.
Mr S says he didnt open an account  with J D Williams in 2011. He did, however, open an 
account with J D Williams  in 2016 and has made all payments.
Mr S says hes never lived at the address associated  with the 2011 account. He says he was 
a victim of identity theft in 2010/11  and believes that the account may have been fraudulently 
opened.
Mr S says he wasnt aware of the 2011  account  until he checked his credit  file.
J D Williams said the 2011 account  was opened  online and that the date of birth matches  Mr 
Ss date of birth. It said the email address associated with the 2011 account  is very similar to 
an email address used  by Mr S, which J D Williams found about  when Mr S sent them a 
screenshot of his credit file and left a tab open  on his internet browser showing the email 
address. J D Williams  also said that both the 2011  and 2016 accounts  had been accessed 
from the same IP address.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought there was sufficient evidence to 
show that Mr S was aware of the 2011  account and that it had been  correctly linked to him.
Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file but Ill focus on what I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on a specific point its not because Ive failed to think  about it but because I dont 
need to comment  o it in order  to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S says he didnt open an account  with J D Williams in 2011 and he doesnt think  that the 
account is associated  with him.
Ref: DRN16225162J D Williams says the 2011 account was accessed on numerous  occasions from the same 
IP address that Mr S has accessed his 2016 account from. It also says the email address 
provided when  the 2011  account was opened  is similar to an email  address used by Mr S. 
Mr S disputes this and has provided evidence of emails being sent to and from a similar (but 
not identical) email address in 2011.  He says there are numerous  private  networks that can 
either mask or copy IP addresses.
In relation to the evidence relied  on by J D Williams, I think its more than coincidental that 
the email address provided for the 2011  account contains exactly  the same  combination  of 
initials, surname and date of birth as a similar email address which  Mr S has used. Taking  
this into consideration  together  with the common IP address, I think its arguable  based  on 
this evidence that Mr S is associated with the 2011 account.
Further compelling evidence came to light during the course of the investigation by this 
service. Information provided by Mr S in connection with a separate  complaint dealt with 
previously by this service in 2016  shows that he held a driving  licence in 2009 with an 
identical address  to the address provided  when the 2011 account  was opened.
Mr S has made the point  that his driving  licence was stolen in 2009. Whilst I dont 
necessarily dispute  that this happened,  it doesnt explain why the numbers on the old driving 
licence match the number on Mr Ss most recent  driving licence. Im satisfied that the old 
driving licence  is genuine  and that it shows that Mr S was linked to the address  used  to open 
the 2011 account.
I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this but having considered  everything  Im of the 
view that there is persuasive and reliable evidence to link Mr S with the 2011  account.
Therefore, I wont be asking J D Williams to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1622516