K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background
Mr Hs car was insured  with Ageas. In late February  2019, the car was stolen and Mr H 
claimed on his policy.
Ageas said the cars pre-loss market value was £4,500. Mr H didnt agree as he felt his car 
was worth a lot more.  He said around six months  before the theft he had spent  over £5,000  
on a brand new replacement engine which would have  enhanced its value.
Mr H didn't think Ageas had dealt with him fairly  so he brought  his complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Ageas valuation was reasonable. As Mr H didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr H, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr H has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Ageas have dealt with Mr H in a fair and reasonable  way.
Mr Hs policy  says that in the event his car is stolen,  Ageas must pay him the pre-theft  
market value of it. I feel that the starting  point  when trying to establish the market value of a 
car is to look at the industry accepted trade guides  and that is what Ageas did in valuing the 
car at £4,500. The guides are based  on extensive  nationwide research of likely  selling  
prices. Our adjudicator independently checked the guides and also reached  the same  
valuation as Ageas.  
During her investigation our adjudicator  contacted a specialist at one of the trade guides and 
asked for a bespoke valuation  taking  into consideration the new engine. But they confirmed  
that even with the new engine Mr Hs cars valuation would not increase and it would  be as 
was stated in the trade guide  valuation.
I know my decision will be frustrating for Mr H and I have a lot of sympathy for the position 
he finds himself  in. But I cant say that Ageas valuation was unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN18960252my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1896025