K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains HSBC Bank Plc made mistakes in processing two credit  card applications 
and this has resulted  in adverse information  being recorded on his credit file.
background
Mr W says he attempted to apply for a credit  card with HSBC  on 8 March 2018 but the 
application didnt  complete due to a technical  fault on the HSBC website and he heard 
nothing further.  He made a second application  on 29 March 2018 which was declined.  Both 
applications have  resulted  in searches on his credit file. Mr W asked HSBC to remove  both 
entries for different reasons. He says the first application didnt proceed. Hes produced  a 
screen shot showing a technical error  which he says was displayed  on 8 March  2019 when 
he applied. Based on this he understood the application had failed and none of his data had 
been stored. In respect of the second  application Mr W said he would never have made this 
if had he realised the first application had been processed and declined. 
HSBC didnt uphold  his complaint. They said they hadnt found any evidence to suggest 
there was a technical issue with Mr Ws first application, and it was correctly referred to their 
underwriters for additional checks.  HSBC said as the credit searches for both applications 
are an accurate record of Mr Ws requests for a credit card, they regretted  that it wasn't 
possible to remove them from his credit  file. And although HSBC said there was no bank  
error they offered apologies for any misunderstanding. Mr W didnt agree - he said the 
searches were erroneous  and cast a very negative light on his ability to manage  his finances 
correctly.
Our investigator was satisfied the two applications  were submitted and that Mr W wouldve 
been aware of the searches being  undertaken from the privacy notice shown on the screen 
before any application. So, on balance she thought the searches were an accurate 
representation of the actions taken on both dates. And didnt think it was fair or reasonable 
to ask HSBC to remove the searches  from Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said HSBC had disregarded that he has irrefutable evidence  of the 
failure of the first application.  This was in the form of the screenshot hed provided of the 
HSBC website advising that the application  failed and that no personal details were 
recorded. He also thought  HSBC  had contradicted their statement that two letters were sent 
to Mr W  informing him of the refusal of each application - by being unable  to provide proofs 
of them.  And Mr W told us on balance of probability  he believed his statements and evidence 
to be complete, uncontradictory  and conclusive but he thought the evidence  from HSBC 
doesnt reach the same level of propriety. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr W feels our investigator  
hasnt given as much weight to his evidence as she has to that from HSBC. Ive looked at 
everything afresh before reaching an independent  view. 
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete  or inconclusive and I cant  know exactly  
whats happened, Ive decided whats more  likely  to have happened,  at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN19005122No one disputes Mr W made the second  application.  But his case  is he wouldnt have done 
so if hed known  the first application had been  made  and declined.  So what  happened with 
the first application is central to deciding whether HSBC have done anything  wrong here and 
need to take any corrective  action. The evidence  relating to the submission of Mr Ws first 
application is contradictory. The records from HSBC show  it was made and then referred to 
underwriting and declined  a couple  of days  later with Mr W being notified  by post of the 
outcome. Ordinarily those records would satisfy me the first application was submitted. But 
Mr W told us the application failed due to a technical  error  and that the screenshot  hes sent 
us is hard evidence of the technical error page  he saw. He says he could not have seen this 
had this first application on 8 March 2018  progressed. So Ive looked very carefully at all the 
evidence relating to this application.
The screenshot displays the date of 7 April 2018.  Mr Ws also recently sent us a further  
screen which he says shows the properties,  date and time of his original screenshot  Ill call 
that the properties screen - and thats also dated  7 April 2018. Mr W has said he doesnt 
have a screenshot dated 8 March  2018 as he did not expect to have to take HSBC  to task 
over the issue. Whilst I can understand that I do find it at odds with Mr Ws assertion that the 
screenshot was taken  when the first application was made on 8 March 2018  and his reliance 
on it to show that particular application hadnt progressed. Mr W also told us both the 
screenshot and the properties  screen are dated  on the day on which  he searched his PC for 
the evidence we requested. But he brought his complaint to us some time after the 7 April 
2018, on 25 July 2018. And the request for more information about  the date of the 
screenshot was made later still, on 27 February  2019. Both of which  dates are some time 
after the 7 April 2018 displayed on both screens.  For these  reasons  I cant be satisfied  this 
screenshot relates to the application made  on 8 March 2018. So, Im afraid  I disagree  with 
Mr W that they are irrefutable  proof of the first applications failure.  And it follows,  that 
without evidence to the contrary, on balance, the records from HSBC  satisfy me the first 
application was submitted.
Mr W told us the letter  from HSBC refusing his second  application was a shock  resulting in 
him searching his credit  file only to find the first application was listed  there. But HSBC  cant 
produce copies  of either of the refusal letters. And, disappointingly,  despite my requests for a 
template of the letter HSBC say this cant be produced  as this standard letter  is system 
generated. Although thats  frustrating  I cant agree  with Mr W that HSBCs inability to 
produce copies  of those  refusal letters contradicts that they were sent  first and foremost he 
accepts hes received the second one. And the records  which HSBC have sent to us show  
the same  letters  were sent for both refusals.  So although I acknowledge Mr W said he didnt 
receive the letter notifying him the first application was refused, on balance, I am satisfied it 
was sent. I dont know why it is that Mr W didnt  get the first letter but did get the second  - Im 
not aware of any other problems affecting his post - but I cant  safely conclude thats as a 
result of something HSBC  has done wrong.
Overall, from everything Ive seen, theres  nothing to support that HSBC did anything wrong 
in relation to either application.  So, I cant say they were wrong in recording both searches 
on Mr Ws credit file. I can see Mr W feels very strongly about this matter but, for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I can find no evidence of any mistake on the part of HSBC  so Im not going to 
ask them  to take any further  action.  Im sorry if this disappoints Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN19005123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1900512