K821x#15Complaint
Mrs H, who is represented by her husband,  Mr H, complains that Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her reject a faulty  car.
Background
In May 2017  Mrs H bought a second  hand car at a cost of £25,162  which was funded in part 
by a hire purchase  agreement with VFS. The car was some  eight months  old and had done 
4,564 miles. 
In January 2018 Mrs H encountered problems with the DAB radio and the car was repaired. 
In June the engine began  cutting out with no warning and the dealer replaced the cam 
sensor and fuel pressure sensor.  In July the car was cutting out again  and refusing to start 
on occasions and the dealer replaced  the ECU and the fuel pressure sensor.  In November it 
was cutting out yet again  and not starting on occasions and this time the dealer replaced the 
ECU, wiring loom and throttle valve. 
At this point Mrs H complained to VFS which rejected the complaint on the grounds she 
hadnt reported the issues for 18 months and it didnt agree the faults had been  present at 
the point of sale. She brought  her complaint to this service where it was considered by one 
of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld.
He obtained details of the cars history  prior to it being sold to Mrs H and found that it had 
been repaired twice  for misfiring problems in the first few months. He thought this indicated  
there was a problem  with the car from the outset  and that it wasnt  durable  as was required 
under consumer law. 
He noted the issues  reappeared not once,  but three more times,  when the vehicle had only 
covered a relatively low of mileage.  Added  to this was the fact the same components were 
replaced more than once. For example the fuel pressure  sensor  was replaced in June and 
again in July and the ECU  was replaced  twice.
He thought the dealer  had sought to repair the car, but the underlying problem kept coming 
back which indicated an inherent fault. He suggested VFS allow Mrs H to reject the car. It 
didnt agree and said there was no evidence of the car cutting out prior to Mrs H acquiring  it 
and therefore  it didnt believe the misfiring faults  were connected to the cutting out problems.  
It said it believed the repairs had now been successful as the car hadnt been  back  for 
further work.  It argued that Mrs H had accepted the repairs and had lost her right to reject.
Our adjudicator said the misfiring problems merely  indicated the car had durability issues 
from the beginning. He also pointed  out that Mrs H had tried to reject the car on her third visit 
to the dealer but had been told this wasnt possible. As VFS didnt agree with the 
adjudicators proposal the matter has been  referred  to me.
Ref: DRN11496692My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Looking through  the repairs this car has undergone  from the outset I too have concerns 
about its durability.  This is a car from a premium brand and one would expect  any new car to 
be fault free for the first year or so. This car only lasted a few months before it was misfiring.
After Mrs H acquired it the car had a number of significant faults in less than 18 months.  I 
gather she remains afraid of driving it especially with her child given the sudden failures she 
encountered and now it is used by Mr H. This shows that the faults were not minor or 
cosmetic. It strikes me that this car wasnt fit for purpose and it should have been rejected 
after the dealers  first repair had failed to remedy the problem.
I cannot say for certain if the misfiring  and the cutting out are connected, though  I suspect 
they might  be. However, this service  looks at the car as one item, rather than each 
component in the car. So the business  doesn't get one chance to repair each different fault,  
simply one chance  to repair the car. If this doesn't  work, the consumer has a final right to 
reject.
I am also satisfied that she tried to reject it when  speaking to the dealer, but was told she 
couldnt. I appreciate  that VFS werent  notified  until November 2018, but I would expect the 
dealer to have  kept it in the loop as to the repairs which were being carried  out on the car it 
owned. Overall I have concluded  that the only appropriate decision is to allow Mrs H to reject 
the car. She has had use of it so she should pay the monthly payments but these should be 
reduced to reflect the lack of enjoyment.
Ref: DRN11496693My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Unwind the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs H.
Remove all information relating to this finance agreement  from Mrs Hs credit  file.
Refund the deposit paid by Mrs H, plus 8% simple interest from the date paid to the 
date refunded.
Refund 10% of the monthly payments made by Mrs H for loss of expectation in using 
the car.
Pay Mrs H £300 for the inconvenience.  This is because she had to take the car back 
for repair multiple times to try and rectify  same  issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
  
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1149669