K820x#14complaint
Miss F and Mr H are unhappy with their appliance warranty provider, Domestic  & General 
Services Limited (DGS). They say the warranties were mis-sold and not fit for purpose.
background
Starting in 2008 and continuing over several years,  Miss F and Mr H purchased warranties  
for a number of appliances. They then became unhappy with the nature of the warranties; 
what they cost, the added costs they had to pay when  a claim was made, and they generally 
felt they didnt provide the benefit theyd reasonably expected from them when they were  
purchased. They complained to DGS  asking  it to re-pay all of the premiums  theyd paid 
against all of the warranties.
DGS said the warranties  had performed  as they should. It wasnt prepared  to provide any 
refund in respect of any of them. DGS also told Miss F and Mr H that it didnt consider the 
warranties to be insurance contracts.
Miss F and Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator felt that the warranties did 
equate to insurance contracts but noted that DGS  hadnt been an authorised  business  at the 
time most of Miss F and Mr Hs warranties were  sold and active.  He explained,  therefore,  
that we couldnt look at their complaint regarding 10 out of the 15 policies theyd had or have 
still in place. For the remaining five he said we could  look at activity which had occurred in 
respect of them during  the period DGS was an authorised business, in line with the rules  that 
govern our service. 
In respect of the five warranties that the investigator was able to consider, he didnt think  
DGS had done  anything  wrong. He said the renewals and/or sales had been  clear and he 
noted that generally Miss F and Mr H had benefitted from the policies in some way. He didnt 
think their complaint, as far it reflected these five polices during the period DGS was 
authorised, which was all he could consider, should  be upheld.
DGS didnt  object to our consideration  or what our investigator had found. Miss F and Mr H 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im of the same  view as 
the investigator.
This service cant consider every complaint that is made to it. The rules that govern our 
service say we can look at complaint about authorised  businesses.  So if a business isnt 
authorised then we cant  consider anything it has done. Even  if it has been conducting what 
we might otherwise  think of as insurance  activities. When  a business is authorised, if it acts 
contrary to the regulations  that apply to such businesses, such  as not having in place a 
correct complaints procedure, that would be a matter for the regulator to consider.
The warranties Miss F and Mr H had/have  are, in my view, contracts of insurance. DGS was 
acting as an authorised business from 1 April 2014  to 29 February 2016. So I can consider 
what activity occurred in respect of the warranties that were in place and renewed or were  
sold during this time. As our investigator said, that is five out of 15.
Ref: DRN19750182The only activity Miss F and Mr H have complained about regarding  these plans, outside of 
renewal and sale activity,  is a claim regarding the oven. But the claim occurred outside of the 
period Im able to consider.  So I cant look at their concerns in this respect. 
Ive looked at the renewal paperwork for each  renewal  that occurred during the time period 
in question. Im satisfied  its clear and clearly sets out the terms of the agreement  that is 
renewing. There is no suggestion an excess will be charged but the paperwork is clear about  
what charges will apply  in the event of a claim. Regarding the fire, there  is no suggestion 
that the warranty includes the provision  of an annual service. If Miss F and Mr H feel theyve 
been misled or understood that DGS was providing  something more, that wasnt,  in my view,  
due to any fault of DGS.
There were two sales during the period Im able to consider in respect of the plans. Im 
satisfied that all of the key terms were clearly explained during the sales  calls. I know Mr H 
has said Miss F shouldnt have been sold a policy without  someone else being  present. But 
Ive seen no evidence  that DGS was aware or should have been aware that it shouldnt  be 
making that sale. And Mr H, at one point, in respect  of one of the sales,  told DGS to contact 
Miss F directly. Im not persuaded that these warranties were mis-sold; the terms were  
clearly communicated  and DGS,  accepting  for a moment that it shouldnt have been,  had no 
reason to suspect  it shouldnt be making a sale to Miss F. 
In summary  I cant consider the merits of the vast majority  of the complaint as made by 
Miss F and Mr H. For the parts I can consider, regarding five warranties during the period  
DGS was authorised,  Im satisfied that DGS  didnt fail Miss F and Mr H. In my view it acted 
fairly and reasonably regarding these five warranties during the periods it was authorised  
and, therefore,  subject to our jurisdiction.
my final decision
It is my decision that much of this complaint falls outside of the jurisdiction of this service. 
Therefore, as relates to any activity regarding 10 of the 15 warranties, and any activity  
regarding the other  five which occurred  outside of the period stated, I cant consider,  and 
havent considered,  the merits of the complaint  made.
As far as the complaint reflects the five warranties where activity did occur during the period 
stated, Ive considered  the merits. I havent upheld  the complaint in this respect.  Im not 
making any award against Domestic & General  Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1975018