K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complained because TSB Bank plc refused to refund  a transaction  which she hadnt  
authorised.
background
In December 2017, Mrs K searched  the internet for some face cream. She found one which  
was advertised as having been on a television programme. Mrs K entered her TSB debit 
card details on the website, believing she was paying £4.95 for postage on a small free 
sample.
Mrs Ks card was then debited with nine further payments to various organisations totalling 
around £600. Mrs K complained to TSB.
TSB raised  chargeback requests and credited Mrs Ks account.  But in January  2018 TSB 
re-debited Mrs Ks account with £89.95, because one of the merchants had defended the 
charge. 
Mrs K complained about the debit, and also because TSB closed her complaint  when  she 
hadnt said she was satisfied with the outcome. And TSBs letter  telling her about  the debit 
had led her to believe  the whole £600 would be re-debited, not just one £89.95 debit.
In its final response,  TSB apologised for its letter and for closing Mrs Ks complaint when she 
was still unhappy.  It paid her £50 compensation. But TSB refused to refund the £89.95 it had 
re-debited. It said that when merchants offer free samples for the cost of postage,  the terms 
and conditions usually  say that if the customer doesnt return  the free samples  within a set 
time, a continuous payment authority (CPA) would be set up on the account. TSB 
recognised that Mrs K had said shed never had any terms and conditions,  but said she 
should return the samples and then contact the merchant  again.
Mrs K wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service. 
The investigator upheld  Mrs Ks complaint. He explained that the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) had given clear guidelines about  setting up CPAs, which the Financial Conduct 
Authority says still apply.  Some  of the things  in the guidance said that:
-incorporating the agreement in the small print isnt sufficient;
-where a consumer has used a free trial offer, the consumer should be asked to agree 
to the liability of additional payments; and 
-CPAs shouldnt be hidden in terms and conditions.
The investigator noted that Mrs K had agreed  that the entered  her card details for the £4.95 
trial. But he didnt  consider  that shed agreed to further transactions. The merchant had sent 
TSB a copy of its terms and conditions,  but these didnt show that the merchant had brought 
the terms of the CPA  and the fact shed be charged a further  amount  to Mrs Ks attention 
in the way the OFT guidelines required.
So the investigator considered that TSB should  refund  Mrs K the £89.95, plus interest.
TSB didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman review. It sent a screenshot  from the 
merchant, which showed that Mrs K would have had to tick a box saying she was over 18 
and agreed to the terms and conditions. TSB said that the OFT points were  guiding 
Ref: DRN16383302principles for companies using continuous payment authorities and would not affect the 
outcome of a chargeback.  TSB argued that if Mrs K had chosen to go ahead  without 
actually reading  the terms and conditions, shed taken a risk that shed miss something 
important.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for Mrs Ks complaint  are the Payment Services  Regulations 2009.
These set out that payments out of a customers account only count as being authorised  if 
the customer has consented to them. It isnt enough  for the bank to rely on the card details  
being used, though customers  can be liable  for payments  if they havent met certain  
obligations. 
The key aspect for me to consider is how the free trial was represented here.  Mrs K doesnt  
dispute that she agreed to a free trial, but the issue is whether or not she knowingly agreed 
to the follow-up payments. In considering this, Ive taken  into account the guidelines issued 
by the OFT,  which Ive quoted above,  and also what the Payment Services Regulations say 
about consent.
TSB says that the transaction wouldnt have gone  through if Mrs K hadnt ticked  the box to 
confirm shed read the terms  and conditions, so it was her fault if she chose to take a risk 
without reading  them.  But the guidelines which Ive set out above specifically say that: 
-incorporating the agreement in the small print isnt sufficient;
-where a consumer has used a free trial offer, the consumer should be asked to agree 
to the liability of additional payments; and 
-CPAs shouldnt be hidden in terms and conditions.
TSB has argued that these guidelines are guiding principles for the companies using CPAs, 
and wouldnt  affect the outcome of a chargeback.  But considering whether a customer  
authorised a transaction is a separate  consideration to a chargeback. Chargebacks  are just 
one mechanism thats open to a bank to try and get a customers  money back from a 
merchant. I agree that the principles are aimed  at the companies  using CPAs. But theyre 
also relevant when trying to understand whether or not a customer  authorised a CPA or not.
Based on what Ive seen,  the relevant parts of the agreement relating to the transaction Mrs 
K is disputing were incorporated  in the small print and the CPA wasnt made  clear.  Instead it 
was placed in the terms and conditions and not given  the prominence  I think it needed to be 
in line with the OFT guidelines Ive mentioned. Nor do I think that Miss K agreed to the 
liability of additional  payments based on what shes told us and how shes acted.
In view of this, I dont find that Mrs K authorised  or consented to the payments beyond the 
fee for the free trial she initially paid for. The Payment Services  Regulations set out that 
liability for unauthorised  transactions  lies with the bank. So I find that Mrs K is entitled to a 
refund for the £89.95 which TSB re-debited  from her on 25 January 2018. Interest at 8% is 
also payable  from that date, to the date when TSB pays Mrs K.
I note that in February 2018 TSB paid Mrs K £50 compensation  for the upset  it had caused  
her. I consider that was fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN16383303TSB has asked whether  our view on this case represents a departure  from how weve 
previously considered complaints about free trials.  But my decision here is based  on the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank  plc to pay Mrs K:
-£89.95 to refund the unauthorised debit from Mrs Ks account; and 
-interest at 8% simple  on £89.95  from the 25 January 2018 when TSB re-debited Mrs 
Ks account, to the date when TSB pays Mrs K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1638330