K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
21 June 2019,  an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont  
repeat that information here.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Ms E said that she 
had nothing further to add. Uncle Buck hasnt  responded to my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mrs E nor Uncle Buck has provided me with anything further in relation to 
the complaint,  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional 
decision. So, I dont  think that Uncle Buck was wrong to give Mrs E the loan.  I dont uphold  
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Mrs Es complaint 
or make any award against Uncle Buck Finance LLP. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11924842extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs E complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
In September 2017, Mrs E took out an instalment loan of £100  with Uncle Buck. The loan was to be 
repaid in three monthly instalments of around £52. Mrs E repaid the loan early.
Mrs E says that Uncle Buck didnt  assess her circumstances and that it gave her a loan she couldnt 
afford to repay. She wants a refund of charges and interest, plus interest and the record of the loan 
removed from her credit  report.
Mrs Es complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He said that Uncle Buck shouldnt 
have given Mrs E the loan. The adjudicator  said that was because it was clear from the information  
Mrs E gave to Uncle Buck  that the repayments would have  meant that she didnt  have enough 
disposable income  left for unforeseen emergencies.
Uncle Buck didnt agree  with the adjudicators assessment. It said,  amongst other things,
that when Mrs E applied for the loan it asked her to choose  from ranges of expenditure and it used 
the higher number  in the range in assessing the matter, so there was an in-built buffer for 
contingencies. It also said that Mrs E overstated her mortgage repayment as £500 whereas the 
publicly available information showed that it was much less than that.
As Mrs Es complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different things, such  as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN11924843But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include;
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Thats not the case here as Uncle  Buck only 
gave Mrs E one loan. Nevertheless, Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mrs E could  
sustainably repay the loan  not just whether  the loan repayments were  affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it 
follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Es complaint.
Before giving  Mrs E the loan, Uncle Buck asked her about  her income  and expenditure and carried 
out credit searches. Given the amount borrowed and the level of the repayments,  I think  that the 
checks Uncle  Buck did before the loan were proportionate. There wasnt anything  in the information  
Mrs E provided or the information Uncle  Buck shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve 
been proportionate for Uncle Buck to either  ask her about  other short-term  financial commitments  or 
start verifying what Mrs E said.
This was Mrs Es first loan with Uncle Buck and it was for a relatively modest amount. So, there 
was nothing to indicate  that Mrs E might  have  been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mrs E said that her monthly income  and expenditure were £1,020 and £900 respectively. So,
on the face of it, she could afford to repay the loan in instalments of around £52. Whilst that didnt 
leave much remaining  disposable income, this sort of short-term lending  is, in itself, intended for 
unexpected emergencies. So, I dont think Uncle Buck acted irresponsibly in lending  to her on this 
occasion.
Ref: DRN11924844It doesnt alter the outcome here, but Im not persuaded by Uncle Bucks argument that Mrs E had 
an in-built contingency as she selected from a range  of expenditure and it used the greater 
amount in the range for its analysis.  Theres no evidence that Mrs Es
expenditure was actually the lesser amount in the range. Also, Uncle Buck is mistaken about
Mrs Es mortgage  repayments. Im satisfied that Mrs Es mortgage repayment was around the 
figure she stated.  Uncle Buck may be referring to other secured lending.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont  think that Uncle Buck was wrong to give Mrs E this loan.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Mrs Es complaint.
Ref: DRN1192484