K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs U say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs U bought  the policy in 1997  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.   
The policy provided  cover  for Mr U for accident, sickness,  and unemployment, subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Us 
mortgage balance  and associated costs in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £15.18 a month. 
At the time,  Mr U was employed  as a security officer. He told us he was entitled to less than 
three months sick pay if he was off sick from work.   I understand that Mr U had been  treated 
for a back  problem in around 1982 for which he had been prescribed analgesia and 
physiotherapy. 
It was stated in the PPI questionnaire that Mrs U was in receipt of sickness  benefits when 
the mortgage was taken  out. However,  the information provided to us from the point of sale 
shows she was recorded as a housewife. The PPI policy had not been set up to cover  Mrs 
U. Nevertheless, those representing Mr and Mr U argued they were not eligible for the cover 
because Mrs U was not in work.    
Mr and Mrs U told us they didnt  have any other  way of meeting  their repayments if Mr U was 
out of work. I can see that a successful claim  was made on the PPI policy  in October 2001 
and was paid with effect from September 2001 to December 2001. 
Halifax sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Us representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Us representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs U 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Us representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs U about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN10890322The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs U 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs U received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs U disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Us. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Us complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN10890323Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Us case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Us complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs U with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN10890324-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs U sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs U, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs U 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs U 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Us complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs U know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
It was not specifically argued that Mr and Mrs U didnt know  they had a choice about  taking 
the PPI policy. I do note that it was stated that the PPI was included  as part of a package. 
However, I can see from the electronic information thats available from the time that Mr and 
Mrs U were asked  several questions about their circumstances  in the context  of PPI, 
including their health. So if the policy was presented  as part of a package, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs U would have  thought theyd have  to answer questions to establish whether they 
were eligible  for it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs U knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because the cover was sold in branch at the 
same time as the mortgage when Halifax had gathered a lot of information about their 
financial circumstances. I think Mr and Mrs U would have reasonably thought the PPI 
recommendation was tailored to their individual circumstances.  This means  Halifax had to 
advise Mr and Mrs U with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting at the point of sale, the electronic  
evidence suggests  that Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs U. For example, I can see some relatively 
rudimentary questions were asked  about Mr Us health and employment status. The adviser 
had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Us financial circumstances as part of the 
mortgage application. But although  some  basic questions  were asked, I cant  say Halifax did 
Ref: DRN10890325enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I havent seen anything  to suggest that 
any questions were  asked  about  their existing means. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs U given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done, I do think  its more  likely than not 
that the policy was ultimately suitable.  In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into 
consideration:
-Mr U met the eligibility criteria  for the policy. As I said above,  it was argued on behalf 
of Mr and Mrs U that they were not eligible for this policy because  Mrs U was out of 
work and in receipt of sickness benefits.  However, as only Mr U was covered by this 
policy, Mrs Us circumstances did not affect his eligibility for the cover;
-Mr and Mrs U had a need  for the policy  Mr U was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely their finances would be put under  strain if he was not working  even 
allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits  he was entitled to. The policy  
would have helped  Mr and Mrs U manage  the consequences were Mr U unable to 
work;
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs U;
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs U. 
There was nothing  about Mr Us employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And although Mr and Mrs U told us Mr U had been  treated 
for a back problem in 1982, the evidence before  me doesnt suggest  that condition  
was enduring at the point of sale. And I note that Halifax recorded Mr U told them he 
had no pre-existing medical conditions when the cover  was sold;  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs Us 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs U sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs U was given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  his payments if Mr U 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs U would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs U agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN10890326Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs U Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr and Mrs U all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Us representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Us. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Us representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs U about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Us representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs U suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs U? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs U suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs 
U. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs U suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs U would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs U, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs U suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs U would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN10890327Mr and Mrs U say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs U had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
U unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Us circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs U knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr and Mrs U applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs U would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Halifax at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs U would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs U would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Us 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs U thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injure [sic] 
that Mr U knew about  or should  have known about,  or for which he received advice 
treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date 
and which recurred within 24 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr U 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr U be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN10890328I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs U pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs U from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Us circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  Mr U was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
should the insured risks have become a reality. The evidence  doesnt suggest Mr U wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions. I appreciate Mr U told us about an historical 
back problem, but the information before me doesnt  suggest this condition  was ongoing at 
the point of sale. Mr U was also in permanent employment. So, I still think  Mr and Mrs U had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
U might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs U from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs U, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs U had known they could only claim for disability if Mr U was not only unable  to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into Mr and Mrs Us thinking about  
what they would do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given 
Mr and Mrs Us circumstances and the limited other means they had to make  their 
repayments if Mr U wasnt working, on balance, I still think  they would have been interested  
in taking out the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs U that any claim would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what they expected and might  have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr U would have received full sick pay for and his statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs U would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help to manage the consequences should Mr U be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs U would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help to manage the consequences  if Mr U was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs U would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN10890329Mr and Mrs Us representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs U would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Us 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs U found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs U believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs U in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs U compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs U think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs U, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Us representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs U and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN108903210and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs U in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1089032