K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy with a car he bought on credit provided by FirstRand Bank Limited.
background
Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand in March  2017 to finance the 
purchase of a car. He chose the car in question in reliance on an advert placed on line. It 
later turned that some of the information in that advert was not correct. The principal concern 
that Mr D had was that the car was described as being  four-wheel drive. When  he had the 
car serviced  later that same year, he learned  that the car wasnt  four-wheel drive.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who upheld it on the basis  that Mr D had 
bought this car on the description  of the car that had been given. Relevant legislation  means 
that FirstRand can be liable in these circumstances. 
FirstRand disagreed  with the investigators  opinion. It said that the advert contained  a 
disclaimer that said the information in the advert couldnt be fully relied  on. It also said that 
Mr D wouldve realised the car wasnt the four-wheel  drive model if hed more carefully 
checked the paperwork he signed when  buying the car.
Because FirstRand disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The relevant  legislation  in this area (s56 Consumer Credit Act 1974) makes  finance 
providers liable for potential misrepresentations made during the negotiations in the run up 
to the agreement being entered into. A misrepresentation is a false  statement of fact made  
by one party  to the other  that induces  or convinces that side to enter  into the agreement.
Ive looked at the advert for Mr Ds car and it clearly  describes this as being  a specific  four-
wheel drive model. Mr D told the investigator that hed tended  to buy cars with four-wheel 
drive in the past and that his decision to do so had been motivated by experience with 
unusually bad weather. From  what Mr D has said, I think its likely, if hed known this specific 
car didnt  have four-wheel drive, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase. 
FirstRand questioned  whether Mr D had chosen  to insure the vehicle as a four-wheel drive 
model. But the insurer that provides  him with cover  told the investigator  that he wouldnt 
have needed to confirm either way  hed have  been asked for the cars registration details 
and things such as the model wouldve been  pre-populated into an application form. So 
although the insurance wasnt  for the four-wheel drive  model,  I dont think that demonstrates 
Mr D was aware that the car had been  inaccurately described in the advertisement.
Ref: DRN15723922FirstRand has argued that the advert  had a disclaimer with the following text:
[We] make every effort to ensure all prices and vehicle details are correct however, 
as these are used cars the specification can sometimes differ  from that displayed.  
Please satisfy yourself that a vehicle has a specific feature thats  important to you 
before purchasing  ...
It says Mr D shouldve thoroughly checked  the paperwork he signed and noted any 
disclaimers. Im not persuaded by this argument. The way this disclaimer  is written doesnt 
exclude liability for misrepresenting or mis-describing the car. And I dont think  a generic 
warning to customers to consider carefully before purchasing changes the fact that the car 
was mis-described.  Overall, I think there  was a misrepresentation here and that FirstRand 
needs to remedy  that.  
Ive thought carefully about the fair and reasonable thing to do here.  I dont think Mr D would 
have bought this car had it not been for the incorrect information  he was given,  so here, I 
think he should be able to give the car back. Im mindful of the fact that Mr D has had use of 
an otherwise perfectly satisfactory car and I think fairness requires that he pays for that use. 
So I dont  think FirstRand needs  to refund any of his monthly payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. FirstRand  Bank Limited now needs  
to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
refund  the deposit paid (including the value of the part-exchanged car) of £2,750
pay 8% simple interest on the refunded sum from the point Mr D paid it until the date 
its returned to him.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires tax at the basic rate to be deducted from the simple  interest.  
FirstRand should give Mr D a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN1572392