K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold with an 
Evans card in 2001. Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has 
taken responsibility  for the sale. So to keep things  simple  in my decision Ill just say FICL 
when Im referring to the PPI seller  or to FICL. Miss T says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss T took out the PPI (called Account Cover) when  she took out her card in a shop. She 
says the assistant (FICL) asked questions to fill in the form, which  she answered, and she 
was then handed the form and told to sign it. 
FICL has given us a copy of the application  form Miss T signed  to apply for the card.  It has 
cross marks indicating where  Miss T was to sign  including in the PPI section. But I dont 
think this means FICL didnt ask Miss T whether she wanted  the cover  before marking  the 
form for her to sign.  The cross could be to indicate where Miss T should  sign to give effect to 
a choice shed  made  in answer to the questions FICL had asked  her. In any case, I dont  
think the crosses are enough  to show that FICL didnt give Miss T a choice about the cover.
Ive no reason to doubt that Miss T took the card to get a discount on her purchases. And I 
accept the sale may have  been hurried and made at the till with others behind.  So I accept 
that Miss T may not have  been given much  time to check  the details. But, again, I dont think  
this means FICL didnt  ask Miss T whether she wanted the cover before giving her the form.
Miss T says FICL didnt ask. She says she wasnt informed of the selection and wouldnt 
have taken the cover if shed known what she was signing. She also says FICL simply said 
she was signing for the card.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I dont  doubt  Miss T has told us what  she honestly  believes, 
based on her best recollections. But, whether hurried  or not, the sale took place more  than 
fifteen years ago. So I wouldnt expect Miss T to recall all the details of it vividly. With this in 
mind, Ive assessed things taking  into account  not only Miss Ts recollections  but also the 
other information we have  from the time of the sale  like Miss Ts application form.
As indicated  above,  the form has a separate PPI section that Miss T signed.  This says:
Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover Please debit my Account with 
the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
So, on the face of it, Miss T agreed  to pay the premium for the cover and signed to say she 
wanted it. Also I think the form makes  it clear that this section  of the form isnt something that 
should be signed automatically.  It says:  only sign this box if you require Account Cover.
Ref: DRN15301492If this had been the only place Miss T had signed  the form, it might  as Miss T suggests - 
lend weight to the idea that in signing for the PPI Miss T believed  indeed was told  she 
was just signing for the store card. But Miss T signed in two places - theres  a separate  
signature for the card itself. So, on the face of it, she wouldve been  aware  she was signing 
for the card and also for something else.
Taking everything into account   including whats written on the form in the place Miss T 
signed for the PPI  I think its likely Miss T wouldve known she didnt have  to sign the box 
for the cover if she didnt  want the cover. So on balance, based on what I have, I think FICL 
likely made it clear  that Miss T didnt have to take the PPI - and she chose to take it.
Miss T says she knew the assistant  was rewarded for signing her up for the card  or at least 
had a target to reach. But this doesnt make me think that Miss T wouldve taken  less care 
over what  the assistant was asking  her to sign. She says she was assured she didnt have to 
check the details  on the form and was told she had nothing to lose and there  was no catch 
(about taking the card). But given what Ive already said above, I still think Miss T was likely 
aware at the time that she was signing for account cover. And, while there may have been a 
queue behind her at the time, taking into account all I have, there isnt enough to make  me 
think FICL pressured Miss T into taking the cover.  
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss T or offer advice about its suitability. So FICL didnt 
have to check the PPI was right for Miss T. But FICL did have  to make sure Miss T got the 
information she needed to decide whether  the PPI was right for her.
I dont know exactly what Miss T was told about the cover.  Given the likely circumstances of 
the sale, in a shop in the course  of another purchase, I think  its possible  the information  
FICL gave  Miss T about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been. But from what 
Ive seen of Miss Ts circumstances at the time,  she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the cover.  For example  she didnt  suffer from existing health problems, so the 
policy exclusions for existing health problems wouldnt have stopped  the cover being  useful 
for her. So it looks like the PPI wouldve been  useful  for her if something went wrong.
Miss T was financially stable at the time, and theres no suggestion she ordinarily  had any 
difficulty meeting her liabilities  or maintaining her credit arrangements.  But the PPI was 
cover in case of unemployment  or disability. And from what Miss T has told us, I cant say 
that she wouldnt have  suffered  a loss of income if shed been too sick to work  for a period of 
time or lost her job. So it seems the PPI couldve been useful to her. And although Miss T 
has said her family couldve helped her instead,  other peoples  circumstances and ability  to 
help can change. Taking everything into account,  I dont  think  better information about the 
PPI wouldve  changed Miss Ts decision about the cover.
Ive taken into account all Miss Ts comments about  the sale but, in the light of what  Ive said 
above, and for the reasons Ive already given, these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Ref: DRN15301493Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1530149