K820x#14complaint
Mrs D say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D took out a mortgage  and PPI through Lloyds in 1996 at a meeting with the bank. The 
policy covered her for accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D didnt accept our adjudicators  view,  so 
her complaint was passed to me. She said she didnt sign up for PPI and was completely 
unaware she had it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when the insurance was added. But, looking at the 
paperwork Mrs D signed at the time, I can see she signed the mortgage application to say 
she wanted PPI. There  was a yes box to select PPI and an equally prominent no box to 
decline it. She ticked the yes box. There were  then some questions to answer  to check  
whether she was eligible, and shes answered  these.  So, I think it likely that PPI was 
discussed and Mrs D opted to take the cover  and thats why it was added.  
Lloyds recommended Mrs D take PPI, so it had to consider whether it was suitable  for her. In 
addition, it had to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading about  the PPI 
so that she could make an informed  choice about  whether  it was right for her and she 
wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider whether I think 
Mrs D has lost out because of that. 
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the policy document that applied at the time of sale. It has 
given us a copy  of a policy document from after the sale.  Based on what  we know from 
dealing with other cases, I think the terms and conditions were likely to have been similar 
when Mrs D took out PPI.
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mrs D. Ill explain why.
Mrs D appeared eligible to take out PPI given her circumstances. 
Mrs D said she wouldve  got around  3 months  worth of sick pay through  her work and 
that she had some  savings. She also said her mother couldve helped.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. So, I think this 
couldve provided Mrs D with a valuable benefit  to protect her home.  It wouldve 
allowed her to keep  hold of her savings to meet her other household expenses  at 
what might  be a difficult time financially for her. I accept that her mother  may have 
wanted to help with her repayments, but help of this kind cant  be guaranteed  when 
the time comes, so I havent placed  much  reliance on this. The policy wouldve also 
have covered her if she lost her job unexpectedly. 
Ref: DRN19075512I cant see that Mrs D wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover at the time she took out the policy,  so I dont think having  better  
information about these things wouldve made any difference  to her decision to take 
out PPI. Mrs D likely  couldve benefitted  from everything the policy  offered.
The premium was paid monthly so she couldve cancelled PPI at any time without 
losing out financially.  She didnt have  to pay interest on the premiums. I cant see that 
the policy was unaffordable. 
Its possible the bank  couldve  given Mrs D clearer  information, particularly about the costs 
and benefits. But, for the reasons explained,  I think she wouldve  likely still taken out the 
policy because of the protection it afforded her and it appeared suitable for her needs and 
affordable.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1907551