K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent money to him that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
Background
Based on the information, Uncle Buck provided Mr R with five loans between  September  
2014 and July 2015.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 20/09/2014 23/09/2014 1 £200
2 27/09/2014 10/10/2014 1 £75
3 21/10/2014 10/11/2014 1 £75
4 24/01/2015 10/02/2015 1 £75
5 21/07/2015 outstanding 3 £320
Mr R, represented by a third party, says that Uncle Buck failed to identify that he had 
become dependent on payday  loans and was stuck in a cycle of debt. Mr R says that had 
adequate checks  been carried out before  the loans were provided, Uncle Buck would  have 
realised that lending didnt help him and made it more difficult for him to find a long term 
solution to his financial issues.
Uncle Buck  says that before providing  the loans it carried out credit  worthiness and 
affordability checks. It says that it was reasonable to rely on the information Mr R provided 
as part of the assessment and that based on the information gathered the loans were 
affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had seen enough  to say that loans one to four shouldnt  have 
been provided. However he thought  that by the time loan five was provided, Mr Rs overall 
pattern of borrowing suggested  he had become persistently reliant on short term loans.  He 
thought the pattern of lending itself showed loan five was unsustainable  and so he didnt  
think this loan should have been provided.
Uncle Buck  didnt accept  our adjudicators  view.  It noted that there was a gap of over five 
months between loan four being repaid and loan five being provided.  It didnt  accept that a 
pattern of unsustainable  borrowing had emerged and said that Mr R only had loans 
outstanding for 57 out of a total of 303 days between September 2014 and July 2015. It also 
noted that loans two to four were for a much lower  amount than the first loan. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN19173142the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had seen enough  evidence to say that loans one to four 
shouldnt have been provided. Having  considered  the size of the repayments on these loans 
compared to Mr Rs income, I think that the checks carried out before these loans were 
provided were reasonable. As these suggested  the loans were affordable I agree with our 
adjudicator that there isnt enough to say these loans shouldnt have been provided. 
The first four loans  were  repayable in a single instalment  and Mr Rs borrowing history 
shows that loan one was repaid early and loans two, three and four were repaid  on time. 
There was then a gap of over five months before loan five was provided.  
I do not find that the gap between loans four and five is substantial  enough  to say that a new 
lending chain should be started and I think that by loan five, Uncle  Buck should have carried 
out a full review  of Mr Rs financial circumstances to ensure that the loan was sustainably 
affordable. Had this happened Uncle Buck would have realised that Mr R was making 
frequent use of gambling sites. Given this I dont  think it would have been reasonable for 
Uncle Buck  to have  considered lending to Mr R at this time as sustainable.  Therefore I do 
not find that Uncle Buck should  have  provided  loan five to Mr R.
Ref: DRN19173143I have looked  at the pattern of borrowing and while I note the comments  about  the gap, Mr R 
had taken out short term loans over an extended  period. These  had been repaid  (apart from 
loan five) and there were periods when no loans were outstanding. However, given  the 
number of loans  and the period over which these were taken, I do find that the pattern of 
lending should  have raised  concerns.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan five. If Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following  steps. If Uncle Buck is not able to buy the debt back  then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the outstanding balance  on loan five, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr R having made overpayments then these should be 
refunded 8% simple  interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B.If there  is still an outstanding balance then Uncle Buck should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
C.The overall pattern  of Mr Rs borrowing for loan five means any information recorded  
about it is adverse,  so once  the loan has been repaid, it should be removed from 
Mr Rs credit file. If Uncle  Buck  is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  set out above.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Uncle  Buck Finance  LLP to deduct  tax from this interest. 
It should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been  deducted,  if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1917314