K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them two 
packaged bank  accounts. They pay a monthly fee for the account which  provides  several  
benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs Fs account was opened  as a fee-free account with Barclays. It was upgraded to 
an Additions packaged account in October 1999, and again to an Additions Active account in 
February 2009.
Barclays migrated Mr and Mrs Fs account  to a fee-free Barclays  Bank  Account  with paid-for 
Feature Store packs in January  2017,  as a change to the range in the products it offered. 
As this wasnt a separate sale, and as Mr and Mrs F havent complained  about  it, I havent 
considered this migration in my decision.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the packaged  accounts  to Mr and 
Mrs F and didnt  recommend that Barclays should pay them any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think  the packaged bank 
accounts were mis-sold  to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs F were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank accounts.
Mr and Mrs F took the packaged bank account  by switching  from a free account, which  it 
looks as though theyd held for a number of years. Theres not a lot of information available  
form when their account was first upgraded in 1999,  but I do think  that Barclays gave Mr and 
Mrs F a fair choice about  taking the packaged  account. 
I find it unlikely that Barclays  wouldve changed  Mr and Mrs Fs account  without their 
consent or knowledge, and the account fee wouldve also appeared on their monthly 
statements. At the time of this upgrade Barclays charged a £5 monthly overdraft usage fee. 
The Additions account cost £6 per month, and one of the benefits was that the overdraft 
usage fee was waived.  It also included  other  benefits such as the first £100 of their overdraft  
interest-free, and preferential overdraft interest rates on amounts above that.
Ref: DRN15109012At the time Mr and Mrs F upgraded their account  for the second  time, in 2009,  the Additions  
account cost had increased  to £12.50 per month  and the Additions  Active  account cost £14 
per month. The main difference between the accounts was the addition of worldwide family 
travel insurance. 
Barclays says that Mr and Mrs F upgraded their account in 2009  during a telephone call. I 
havent got a recording  of that call, but I do think the benefits of the account wouldve been 
discussed on it. And as Mr and Mrs F were  already paying £12.50 for their previous 
packaged account, I think its more likely than not that they agreed to upgrade  to the 
Additions Active account for the additional benefits it offered, for £1.50 per month extra.
Having considered everything, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F agreed  to 
upgrade their account on both occasions  even if they dont know  remember that. 
I dont think that Barclays  recommended the Additions account to Mr and Mrs F, so it didnt 
have to check if it account was suitable  for them. But it still had to give them  enough 
information about it.
As Ive already  mentioned,  I think Barclays told Mr and Mrs F about the overdraft usage fee 
waiver on the Additions account. It looks as though they were  using their overdraft regularly 
before and after they upgraded, which theyd have paid £5 per month to do, plus interest  on 
the full balance. After the upgrade, they paid £6 per month to have the Additions  account, 
plus they benefited from having  the £5 fee waiver,  £100 of their overdraft  interest-free,  and a 
discounted interest rate on overdrawn balances above that.
Although I dont think Barclays recommended the Additions account, it did recommend the 
Additions Active account. That means  it had to check whether the account was right for Mr 
and Mrs F, taking  into account their personal  circumstances. 
The main  benefits  of this account were mobile phone  insurance, car breakdown cover,  
worldwide travel insurance, and a £250 interest-free overdraft portion, with preferential  rates  
above that amount. It looks as though Mr and Mrs F had access  to mobile phones and a car, 
and theyve said they travelled abroad  regularly. It also looks as though  they made a large 
payment to a travel  agent on the same day they upgraded their account  so I think  the 
reason they upgraded   to an couldve been to benefit from the Additions  Active  accounts 
inclusion of travel insurance. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs F have said that Mr F took part in playing sports  whilst  abroad 
which wouldnt have been covered  by the Additions Active accounts travel insurance.  But 
the insurance was a family policy, so Mrs F and their children couldve still been  covered. I 
also havent seen  anything to suggest  they couldnt  have  used  the accounts other benefits if 
theyd wanted  to or needed to. So I dont think it was unfair of Barclays to recommend the 
account, even  if Mr F did need  to take out specialised  travel insurance for the sport he 
intended to play.
As with the Additions account, Barclays also had to give Mr and Mrs F enough  clear  
information about the Additions Active account  for them to decide  if they wanted  it. And for 
the reasons I think the recommendation was fair, I also think  Barclays told Mr and Mrs F 
about the main  benefits of the account, and they were interested  in at least  some of them. 
They may not have  gone  on to use all the benefits, but this doesnt  mean  Barclays mis-sold 
the account. 
Ref: DRN15109013Its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs F everything it should have about the 
packaged accounts. But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough to make me 
think that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt still have upgraded their account  on both occasions, even if 
Barclays had told them more information about  them.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs F have said that it took them  some  time to notice the packaged 
account fees, due to Mr F working long hours and Mrs F looking after their children, one of 
whom is unwell. Theyve also explained  that the packaged  account fees took money away  
from their already limited  income, which made things  difficult for them.
I can fully understand  that its been a hard time for Mr and Mrs F and Id like to thank them  
for sharing this very personal information  with us. But in making my decision,  I can only tell 
the business to put something  right  or recognise  an error  when  Ive concluded that 
something went wrong. And Im afraid that in this case, as I havent decided  that Barclays 
did anything wrong,  I cant  tell Barclays to do anything about  the difficult  times Mr and Mrs F 
have inevitably been through.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs F also say they havent been able to downgrade their account to a 
fee-free account,  as Barclays insists they repay  their overdraft first.
I can see Mr and Mrs F made a complaint related to the downgrade of their account in 2016. 
Barclays says that at that time it paid Mr and Mrs F £50 to cover some  of their account  fees,  
and Ive seen  a telephone  call record which suggests that Barclays told Mr and Mrs F to 
contact it again  if they wanted to downgrade their account. Theres  no further records  of Mr 
and Mrs F contacting Barclays again  about this, or requesting a downgrade.
Barclays has confirmed that Mr and Mrs F are free to remove  the Feature Store packs from 
their account, without the need to repay their overdraft. Removal  of the packs may affect the 
interest-free or preferential rates theyre currently entitled to, but they wont have to repay 
their overdraft before the request can be completed. Mr and Mrs F should  contact Barclays  if 
they still wish to go ahead with this.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs F that Ive looked at all the information  I have  about  their 
complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  everything theyve said. But having done so I 
dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions or Additions Active accounts to them.  So I dont 
think it owes them any money.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1510901