K822xcomplaint
Company R complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) wrongly  authorised a direct  debit 
payment, leaving the company with a substantial unauthorised overdraft.
R wants HSBC to apply  a direct debit  indemnity  claim and waive  the interest and charges 
applied to the unauthorised overdraft.
background 
I set out the background  to this matter in a provisional decision issued in May 2019.  
In that provisional  view I set out why I considered HSBC had made a mistake in allowing the 
direct debit to be taken, but that Company R had compounded the error by declining the 
option of a direct debit  indemnity claim when  it was offered in January 2018. 
I explained that after that indemnity was offered  and declined,  I considered  that Company R 
had accepted that the debt was due and effectively authorised.  
I set out that I thought the offer HSBC had subsequently made was reasonable, and that I 
would not ask it to do more. 
That decision has been  shared with the parties  and their comments have been sought.
HSBC responded  saying  that it had nothing further to add. 
Company R responded, querying  the basis for my assertion that Company R had declined  
the offer of a direct debit  indemnity, and also providing a copy letter,  dated  late January 
2018, asking HSBC to initiate a direct debit indemnity  claim for the sum taken.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter provided  by Company R has been  forwarded to HSBC,  who confirm that it was 
never received at their offices. 
No proof  of postage or proof of receipt is available. 
As this letter  was not previously mentioned, and there is no other  evidence  available  which 
demonstrates that a direct debit indemnity was ever requested, I am not able to consider  this 
as part of this complaint.  Company R would  have to raise a further  complaint  with HSBC if it 
wishes to complain that the letter  was not responded to. 
My assertion  that a direct debit indemnity  had been  offered to Company R in January 2018,  
and had been declined, was based upon  contemporaneous complaint notes provided by 
HSBC. 
Company R disagrees  with my provisional assessment of the complaint because it contends 
that it has never accepted that the direct debit was authorised, and that it did, in fact request 
a direct debit indemnity.  
Ref: DRN19046432As there is no evidence  of this, and HSBC has confirmed that it did not receive a request for 
direct debit indemnity,  I have not seen evidence  to change my provisional view. 
As a result, I adopt my provisional decision and reasons  as my final decision (in addition  to 
the reasons set out above). 
my final decision
I uphold Company Rs complaint, but consider that HSBC  UK Plc has made a reasonable 
offer to settle,  on the following terms:
If R will enter into a formal arrangement  for the borrowing, and providing appropriate
Security for the borrowing, then HSBC  will apply an interest rate of 9% above base rate to 
the borrowing, beginning in November 2017;  and
The legal proceedings will be stayed so that, so long as R makes  its repayments on
the agreed arrangement, neither party will recover its legal costs  from the other.
I do not ask HSBC UK Plc to do anything further  in addition to the above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1904643