K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of and in his capacity as a director  of a limited company I that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough  to prevent I becoming the victim of a scam or to help 
them recover their funds.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr T.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of the key events here.  In early 2018 Mr T and his wife were  looking to have 
building work  done  at their home.  They contacted a building company called C that they 
found online. One of Cs representatives attended their home  and plans were discussed.  
On 19 January 2018 Mr T sent a deposit of £11,780 to the bank account details C had 
provided. This was sent through online banking from Is business  account. Ultimately the 
building work  never started, and C went into administration later that year.  
When the building work didnt  start and Mr T had trouble getting in touch with C, he 
concluded that hed been the victim  of a scam. He reported this to the police and contacted 
HSBC. Upon notification, HSBC informed  the beneficiary bank the same day, but they 
reported that none of Mr Ts funds remained in that account.
Mr T complained, he doesnt think HSBC  did enough to prevent him from becoming the 
victim of a scam. He thinks they have  failed in their obligations and wants  to be refunded the 
£11,780. HSBC  maintained that they followed  Mr Ts instructions and had no reason to 
suspect there was a problem with the payment. They also point out that they acted  promptly 
on being made aware he was alleging fraud and did all they could  to recover  the money from 
the beneficiary bank.
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary she said she didnt  think  HSBC could reasonably have  been  
expected to have intervened in the payment. She didnt consider it to be unusual  for the 
account in question. She also wasnt persuaded that even if HSBC had intervened  that it 
would have made a difference.  Mr T disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN12155222But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice, I consider firms should in any event have 
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.    
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment.  Or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
It isnt in dispute that Mr T went online and gave his instructions to send £11,780 from Is 
account to the account details that C gave him. So, in line with what Ive said above, the 
starting point is that HSBC should follow that instruction unless there are objective reasons  
why they ought to have had concerns that Mr T might be at risk of financial harm.  
Whilst £11,780 is a large  sum of money, Ive considered whether or not the instruction to pay 
this amount represented unusual or suspicious activity in relation to the account. Mr T says 
that he believes HSBC  failed in their duties  and obligations by allowing his payment to be 
processed without contacting  him first, he points out that other  large payments from the 
account were to existing  payees. 
 
What can be considered unusual clearly requires  reference to the common  activity on an 
account. Ive looked  back at the bank statements as far as April 2017 to assess this. Is 
account is a business account and typically maintained a very healthy balance. At the time 
the payment was made the account had a credit balance of around £154,000.  
It wasnt uncommon for online payments to be made from the account.  Notably online 
payments were made  from the account for £20,000 in December 2017  (the month prior to 
the payment in question) and another £20,000  in September 2017.  Further to this there were 
other large  online payments of around £7,000  in September  and October 2017. 
Ref: DRN12155223I appreciate that the £11,780 was sent to a new payee and that the online payments Ive 
listed above were  to existing payees.  But even taking that into account, I cant  fairly say that 
the payment instruction Mr T provided  ought to have stood out as unusual, out of character  
or suspicious. I couldnt reasonably expect  HSBC to intervene in these  circumstances. 
And as Mr T didnt speak  to or interact  with HSBCs staff at the time of the payment, I cant  
see that HSBC missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being  made  in relation to 
an alleged  scam.
Our investigator went further  and explained  that even if HSBC had intervened and asked 
appropriate questions   she wasnt persuaded this would have made  a difference. She also 
questioned whether this was a scam or a case of a building firm going  out of business. I 
dont think I need  to make determinations on those points to fairly decide this complaint  so 
Im not going  to. 
Mr T also submitted a guidance document from the European Banking Federation  relating to 
the implementation of the Payment Service Directive (PSD2).  He believes this supports his 
argument that HSBC were negligent  in relation to the payment he instructed. Ive considered 
this and I dont  agree. The specific part Mr T highlighted refers  to authentication  of payments 
and Im satisfied that the payment in question was correctly authenticated  through the online 
banking process. 
As Ive explained, Id expect HSBC to be on the lookout for any out of character or unusual  
transactions and to be alert to circumstances where  their customer might  be at risk of 
financial harm. Indeed, HSBC and all banks have  regulatory  obligations  to do so. But at the 
same time, HSBC cant be involved in every  transaction. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think I can fairly criticise HSBC for following Mr Ts instruction and 
processing the payment as I dont think there was anything sufficiently unusual  about it that 
reasonably could have put them on notice that there might be a problem.
Recovery
As Ive covered, Im not going to make  a finding as to whether  or not Mr Ts dealings with C 
amount to a scam. But irrespective of that when a customer  reports that they believe theyve 
been the victim of a scam, Id expect HSBC to promptly respond and take the necessary 
steps to try to recover their customers money.  So, in the circumstances where HSBC is the 
sending bank it doesnt matter if it was a scam  or C going out of business;  Mr T reported the 
matter as a scam and Id expect HSBC to treat it as such  in the initial  stages.
I can see that HSBC contacted the beneficiary  bank the same  day that Mr T contacted them 
alleging the scam. Usually, Id expect that contact  to be made  immediately. Due to the 
passage of time the exact time of the notification is no longer available. But we do know that 
it happened the same day.  
The beneficiary bank  has evidenced that the money credited to the account  was all 
withdrawn the same  day that it arrived (19 January 2018). Mr T didnt  contact HSBC  to 
report that he thought hed been  scammed until June 2018.  So, even if it could be shown  
that HSBC didnt respond as quickly as they ought  to have done  in these circumstances 
Im not persuaded it would have made a difference. The money had already left the 
beneficiary account some months earlier.
Ref: DRN12155224Summary
Im really  sorry  to hear that Mr T has lost a significant amount of money. But overall,  I dont 
think HSBC missed an opportunity to prevent  him from losing money in this way or did 
anything to hinder  the recovery of the funds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1215522