K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit card in 2007. She says she didnt need PPI and 
didnt know she had an option. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mrs G that they didnt think her mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Mrs G some of the 
cost of the PPI related to the commission it received. 
Mrs G still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place  and has asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs mis-sale  complaint.
Weve seen a few similar cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite  a bit 
about how the sales processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements.
We dont have a copy of the actual application  form Mrs G used in this case  but my 
experience of the forms used around that time is that they provided the applicant  with a 
choice. So if they wanted PPI, they would need  to make sure it was selected on the form. 
This involved ticking a box and if they didnt want the cover  they didnt need  to insert a tick.
So whilst I accept this is all quite a long time ago now, I think  its more  likely Halifax  properly 
got Mrs Gs consent for the PPI and she would  have been able to see she had a choice.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs G. I think it was.
This is because I think Mrs G was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that shed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mrs G. 
Mrs G says she got sick pay with her job and I agree this would have been relatively good. 
But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt of any use. In the event  of a 
successful claim  for example, the PPI could have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit 
card balance for up to a year.  And having  very carefully considered  everything Mrs G has 
told us, overall I think the policy was suitable for her.
Ref: DRN11081812Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mrs G 
to make an informed decision.  I obviously cant say she was told everything she should  have 
been told. But weve been sent a copy of a welcome letter Mrs G was sent or given about 
the PPI policy, dated 21 August 2007.  It describes  the cover  and how much  it cost. And as 
Ive said, I think there  would have been a verbal discussion about  the policy and how it 
worked. 
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, 
doesnt need to refund everything Mrs G paid for it. But its offered to give her back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank of Scotland plc will make  
arrangements to pay Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done  so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1108181