K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complaint is about a claim that Tesco  Underwriting Limited declined under her home 
insurance policy.
background
Mrs S made a claim after items were stolen from the boot of her car overnight  when it was 
parked outside  her home. It was reported that there  was no damage  to the car. She says 
that the police said in the initial call reporting the loss that access was likely made by an 
electronic device blocking her attempt to lock her car or accessing the locking code. Mrs S 
has told us that one of her neighbours also suffered  a theft from their car the same night and 
there was no damage to their car either.
Tesco didnt  accept  Mrs S claim.  It said that because the car was parked outside  the 
boundary of her home, the only cover she could claim under was personal  possessions 
cover. However, for this cover to apply to a claim for theft from a car, there  needed to be 
evidence that there  was forcible and violent  entry  to the car. As there  was none, Tesco 
declined the claim.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with Tescos response  so she referred the complaint to this service. 
Following this Tesco confirmed that it should  have asked for a copy of the police report 
before it made a decision on the claim. As such,  it offered £100 compensation for its error 
and said that it would  review its decision once it had reviewed the police report,  which it 
subsequently asked for.
Mrs S accepted the offer of £100  and the review of her claim. However, when Tesco  didnt 
change its mind after reviewing the claim, she remained unhappy  with the outcome.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and ultimately decided  that it shouldnt succeed. 
Mrs S didnt accept his view and as agreement couldnt be reached,  the complaint was 
passed to me for consideration.
I considered this complaint and issued my provisional decision on 12 December 2018. In 
that document I explained my conclusions  and reasoning. Below  is an excerpt from my 
provisional decision.
I would  firstly like to explain  that in order to uphold a complaint I must be persuaded that the 
financial business being complained about  has made an error or done something wrong. 
Where it isnt clear what happened I must make a decision on the balance of probabilities   
what I think is most likely  to have happened.
The above  term means that Mrs S has cover for theft from her car in certain  circumstances. 
If those conditions arent met, then there is no cover available under the policy. This is part 
of the definition of what  cover  is available, rather than Tesco  saying that the claim is 
defeated by an exclusion. If Tesco were applying  an exclusion, it would have to justify  its 
use. That is not the case where the definition of cover only includes something  in certain 
circumstances.
Mrs S has told us that the car was parked  on the road outside  her home the night of the 
theft. She lives in a rural location   a street of houses with no other  properties within several 
miles  and there is no street lighting.  She says that the car was locked when it was last left 
Ref: DRN10830852and believes  that some kind of electronic device was used to intercept  the locking signal 
from the key fob to prevent it locking  properly or allow the car to later be unlocked. 
It is well known that there are devices  that can be used to tamper  with the locking 
mechanism of a car. So it is entirely plausible that this is why Mrs S car wasnt  locked or 
how it was unlocked when  the thieves took the contents of the boot and glove box. However, 
it is also possible that the car wasnt locked properly by its owners when it was left.
Given the rural location, it would seem likely that the potential thieves would have needed  to 
be in sight of Mrs S car and home  when  using a device to either  copy the locking codes or 
stop it locking.  Again  because of the type of location, I would  have thought that someone 
loitering around the property would have been noticed by Mrs S. I think this makes the use of 
an electronic device to block  the locking signal or copy  the entry code somewhat less likely 
than if the car had been in, say, a busier and more built-up area.
It is clear in this case that there was no damage to the car when the items were  taken.  This 
makes it seem likely  that the car wasnt locked when the items were stolen. There  is no 
cover for that situation under the policy. Where  it seemed plausible  that the car was 
unlocked because of some kind of electronic interference with the cars locking mechanism I 
might find that there was cover available under the policy, as the forcible and violent 
requirement can be considered in different  ways.  However, I am not persuaded in the 
circumstances that it is more likely than not that such interference did occur.  
I know that this will disappoint Mrs S, but I dont consider that Tesco was unreasonable in 
declining her claim, given  the circumstances.
Tesco accepted  my conclusions, but Mrs S didnt. She said that she feels like I was calling 
her a liar and reiterated that the car is always locked when its left. Mrs S also provided  more 
detail about the street they live on and explained  that in late afternoon and early evening it is 
as busy as any street in a town with residents returning home. In addition,  there  are lots of 
dog walkers who use the street, it was a popular  through-route and if someone  were in a car 
a few houses away, they wouldnt  be noticeable.  
Mrs S went  on to say that she had noticed some scratches on the back  of the car below the 
boot. She is unsure when these scratches happened and how,  but speculated  that they 
might have been caused by the thieves  using a tool to get into their car. In summary, Mrs S 
said that she and Mr S has done all they could to secure the vehicle and if a blocker was 
used then the entry to the car would  be considered as being forced.
Relevant policy terms
Contents optional  cover  Personal possessions
What is covered:
Your or your familys personal possessions, money,  credit cards and mobile phones are 
covered for loss, theft and damage  anywhere  in the UK (including in your home),  and for up 
to a total of 60 days in any period  of insurance,  when you and /or your family are abroad.
Ref: DRN10830853What is not covered:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended  motor vehicle or 
where a motor vehicle  is stolen, unless: 
There is evidence that forcible  and violent  entry took place;
The item is concealed in a glove  or boot compartment; and
All access points to the vehicle are closed and locked.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mrs S most recent  
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  Mrs S feels that she is being accused  of lying, that was not my intention.  My role 
requires me to come to a judgement based  on the evidence that is available. Where  there  
are different  possibilities as to what happened and no conclusive proof of which  actually did 
happen, I must decide which  I think is most  likely. That is not to say that I know for certain, 
what happened, that is not possible, but unless I am persuaded that it is more  likely that 
someone, somehow interfered with the locking mechanism of Mrs S car rather  than it being  
accidentally left unlocked,  I cant uphold this complaint. 
I have noted what  Mrs S has said about  the street she lives on being busy  when the 
residents return from school and work. However,  it is still a small community and whilst 
Mrs S isnt convinced that she would  notice someone loitering in order to target individual  
cars one at a time, to do so would be a high-risk strategy in comparison to the situations 
where this type of technology is commonly known to be used. 
As I have said above, I cannot know for certain  how the thieves were able to access  Mrs S 
car, but I am not persuaded that the evidence  shows that it was most likely  because of some  
sort of interference from thieves with the locking system.
I note that Mrs S has said that there  is some  damage to the car and that it is possible that 
this was caused during the theft.  I dont think it would be appropriate for me to comment on 
this at the present time in light of the reports of no damage to the police and Tesco at the 
time. However, if Mrs S decides that it is likely  that this damage did occur when the thieves 
accessed the car, she should speak to Tesco  in the first instance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
24 February 2019..
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1083085