K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained about a pension plan he took out that was sold to him by The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).  He feels the plan was mis-sold because at the time of taking it 
the age of fifty was the earliest age he could access his retirement money  but this has now 
changed.
Background
Mr B started paying into his pension plan in July 1990. He was in his early  twenties at the 
time and was self-employed. He started by paying  £50 per month  and the plan was invested  
in a with profits fund. In 1996 he increased his contributions and in 2007 he ceased making 
payments. The plan was made fully paid up but was still accruing  profits.
Having recently found out that he couldnt access his retirement monies  until aged 55 Mr B 
complained. He has said that the paperwork for his plan should have provided a warning that 
the plan could be affected by changes made  by the Government in the future. Hes also said 
that had he known this at the time of taking the plan he would not have taken  it.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  She 
felt the paperwork  was correct at the time and that was all RBS was obliged to do. It couldnt 
foresee any changes the Government could make  or how these could affect  the plan in the 
future so she didnt think RBS had done  anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with the assessment. He maintained that the warnings should  be included 
and that if RBS isnt responsible for the misinformation then there  is nothing  to stop further 
changes taking place  that will affect  him from accessing his retirement monies.
The investigator considered Mr Bs further comments but wasnt  persuaded to change her 
initial outcome.  So as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been  passed to me 
to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration that he cant access his monies until later than he originally 
thought but this isnt due to any error RBS has made, or in fact due to any error  at all.
The Government has made changes to various  rules around peoples pensions  over a 
number of years. This is the prerogative of the Government  and Im sure this will continue in 
the future.
But this isnt something that can be foreseen  by any business when arranging or setting up 
pension plans for consumers. I think it is good practice for any business setting up such  a 
plan to highlight  this fact to their customers and this probably does happen. But in this 
situation I cant say that this did or didnt happen.  But in any event, this doesnt  mean  that 
RBS made  an error and needs to compensate for this.
Ref: DRN18733822The paperwork which  accompanied the plan was correct for the time it was produced so in 
this respect again  RBS hasnt done anything wrong. It cant be expected to cover every  
eventuality. And while I agree there could have been  some sort of narrative  about  being 
aware that changes  made by the Government could affect certain  terms of the plan, this 
wasnt an obligation. So if that wasnt included in the paperwork RBS cant  be said to have 
made an error that needs redressing.
I know Mr B has said that had he known Government changes could affect his plan he 
wouldnt have taken  it out, but I have  to say I think this is unlikely. Mr B took the policy  when 
he was twenty  two. So its clear that at such a young age he was thinking about providing  for 
his future  and his retirement and that such a plan was important to him. Any pension plan 
taken out with any provider would have  been  affected by Government changes  regardless of 
which business he took the plan out with. And given the importance of this plan I think  its 
unlikely he would have  decided to not put something  in place for future because he found 
out when he was setting plan up that Government changes could affect his plan.
Overall, therefore, the changes in the age at which Mr B can access  his retirement monies  
was made  some years ago by the Government which RBS couldnt have been expected to 
know would  happen  when it sold Mr B the plan. I therefore dont think  RBS has done 
anything wrong. The Government is entitled to make such  changes  and regardless of 
whether an individual agrees with those changes nothing can be done to alter them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1873382