K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc is holding him responsible for borrowing on a 
credit card account that he didnt know anything about.
background
Mr C says he contacted  Bank of Ireland  in February  2018 when he found that there was a 
credit card account in his name. He went  into a branch in June  2018  and said he did not 
apply for this. He was then shown details of an application  for the account  made  in January 
2011. He accepts making this but his position is that his partner at the time - now his ex-wife 
- activated  the card and used it to make  payments without  his knowledge. And that she 
concealed statements  of this card account and of his joint bank account with her that 
showed repayments being made. He wants the balance  including the late payment fees all 
taken out of his name and any adverse information on his credit record removed.
Bank of Ireland  said it wouldnt  be refunding  the money. Mr C had changed his version of 
what happened and now agrees that he had opened the account. It wasnt  clear why he did 
so if he wasnt intending to use it. Bank of Ireland cant accept that Mr C didnt know  about  
the account. And it also said that as the last payments were in July 2015 he hadnt disputed  
them within 13 months as required.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He issued a number of 
views explaining his conclusions.  But in summary he said that statements were being sent to 
the correct address and so any other contact details held or changed for the account didnt 
affect his conclusions. Mr C said his salary was paid into the joint account  so he ought to 
have seen the payments made  to the card. It didnt matter that only some  of the payments to 
the card account  were  made in this way. Mr C had said that spending seemed to be for 
household expenses and that was what the statements indicated. He remained of the view 
that Mr C knew about  the use of the card account.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He maintained  that he knew  
nothing about  these payments, didnt authorise  them  and shouldnt  be held responsible for 
the borrowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated,  say with a card and PIN. Where  credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974  applies and it states  that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for unauthorised payments unless they consented to someone 
else having possession  of that card. 
I appreciate that the PSR also states  that unauthorised transactions should be reported 
without undue delay  and at the latest within 13 months. We take into account relevant 
regulations but also think  about  what is fair and reasonable. Here  the issue is whether Mr C 
even knew about  the payments and so I think it fair that I consider the circumstances around 
them.
Ref: DRN12761822So Ive thought about the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-Whats the most likely explanation of how the account was used and the payments were  
made?
-Did Mr C consent to these payments which might have involved him allowing someone  
else to use his card?
Its not in dispute  that these payments were authenticated  thats to say that the genuine 
card was used and the correct PIN entered  if required. And Mr C is clear that this was 
because his ex- wife had obtained the card and PIN. Given  the passage  of time there are no 
longer any payment logs or even statements going  back before February 2012 available.  But 
I accept that payments were authenticated.
I wont be able to resolve every detailed  point Mr C has raised  and be able to be certain  of 
what happened. Im going  to be considering what I think  are the key issues  which  will help 
me decide what I think most likely  happened here.  I need to decide  whether Mr C consented 
to the payments and use of the card. There are two ways he could here  either he made 
them himself  or if he consented  to his ex-wife having  possession of the card. If he had given 
that consent to her then it wouldnt have been necessary for him to have  been  aware  of 
every payment and Ill be thinking about  whether he most likely was aware  of the card being 
used.
On Mr Cs account he allowed his wife to manage their finances.  Whether  or not she 
concealed statements  on their joint account  from him he didnt seek  to question the entries 
on that account and particularly given  his employment income was paid into it. He also says 
that she paid household  expense from the credit card.  Some of the repayments to the credit  
card were  made  from the joint account and so I think ought to have been reasonably known 
to Mr C. 
As far as statements  for the credit card account  were concerned these  went to the correct 
address and up to July 2013 to the address I understand Mr C says was his parents and 
where he was living.  I dont see say that on his account his wife changing  a contact number  
held for him by Bank  of Ireland or email account  relevant  if thats what  did happen as the 
evidence about  this is unclear. I say that because the statements were  being sent.
Mr C now accepts he opened  the credit card account in January 2011.  Hes said he didnt 
use it because he was worried  about  getting into debt and also that this was for 
emergencies. He says he didnt activate it and left the card and PIN details in a drawer  at 
home. Under  the term and conditions of the account he was required to keep the details safe 
but if he didnt  that still doesnt mean  hes responsible for unauthorised payments on a credit  
card. But it is relevant  to thinking about what he did with the card and why he neither 
cancelled it if he didnt  want  it nor activated it for possible emergency use.
I dont know when the card was activated and who did this. But to accept what  Mr C says Id 
need to think that his partner then formed a plan to use a card in his name without him 
knowing. And activated it so it could be used at a future date. The first record  of payments 
from the account Ive seen is in August 2013 - but in any event there was no outstanding 
balance on the card from February  2012 until then. The last payments on the card were 
made in July 2015. And until the last recorded  repayment in February 2018 the card account 
was kept up to date with only an occasional  late repayment. The payments were largely for 
household expenses and the account  seemed well managed within a limit. Mr C says he 
Ref: DRN12761823separated from his wife around February  2018.  He then says he discovered from a credit  
reference agency there was an account  and balance  outstanding. 
I cant know for certain what if any arrangement Mr C and his wife had regarding this 
account and about their finances generally. On Mr Cs account hed given his wife 
considerable discretion over their bank account. And I cant  know  for certain  who made the 
payments on the card.  I dont  think  that Mr Cs evidence that his ex-wife re-directed  post 
after she moved out and still tried to conceal  this account from him to be compelling. He 
knew there was an account  in February  2018  and hes shown that he called Bank of Ireland 
about this that month. Its evidence is that it later spoke to him in May 2018  although theres  
a dispute about whether Mr C was phoning in the first place. In any event by then arrears 
had developed on the account and led to Mr C pursuing this complaint.
I now need to weigh  all these factors to reach my decision. I find it unlikely Mr C knew 
nothing about  the use of this account for all of seven years  even if his statements were being  
withheld from him. Up until July 2013 the evidence is that statements were going to what  
hes explained was his parents address. Hes already  been  mistaken  about  whether he 
opened the account or not so that raises  questions about the reliability  of what he says. The 
payments and pattern of spending on the account  are consistent in my view with the account 
being used to make household payments with his consent and then being repaid in an 
orderly way for several years. That pattern only broke down when on his evidence he and 
his wife separated  and a plausible explanation is that they were then in dispute  over the debt 
and finances generally. 
On balance I find that this is a civil dispute between Mr C and his wife and Im not persuaded 
that the most  likely  explanation was that he did not know about  this and did not consent to 
his card being used  by her if thats  how the payments were made. As I say Ive nothing to 
evidence that he didnt say make them  himself.  I find as a result  that Mr C is fairly 
responsible for this debt. He seemed to be aware at least there was a card account by 
February 2018 and although he may not have been receiving letters about it due to a 
redirect on his post he didnt follow this up until May 2018. So I dont think  theres a basis  
either to say that the adverse information  and late payment fees have been  unfairly  recorded  
and applied.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1276182