K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1997. Mrs J says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs J took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs J  she clearly 
feels very strongly about her complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below.
Mrs J says that she had no idea she had the PPI, and that she wasnt  aware  it had been  
added to her account. But I think that FICL  made it clear that she didnt  have to take out he 
PPI, and that she chose  to do so, although  I can understand why she doesnt remember  this 
as it was so long ago. I say this because FICL has provided a copy  of Mrs Js store  card 
application  and I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and has been selected. 
Mrs J has then signed the application agreeing to the information on it.
Mrs J has also said that she didnt tick to select the PPI, and that it mustve been actioned  by 
the person who was selling her the product.  But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that this was 
the case. FICL has also provided information that shows  that Mrs J made  a successful claim 
on the policy in 2003  had she not known about the PPI until she made her complaint to this 
service, I cant see how she wouldve been  able to make a claim at this time.  However  as the 
claim was also a long time ago, I can see how she may have forgotten having done this. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs J got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Ref: DRN19857392Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1985739