K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr B says there was no mention of PPI when applying for his mortgage.  RBS no longer has 
a copy of Mr Bs original PPI application form which is understandable  given how long ago it 
was sold. But RBS has sent me a sample  application it says it was using around the time 
and from what Ive seen  of similar cases from around the same  time and considering  PPI 
was added to Mr Bs account I think the sample is likely to be similar to what he wouldve 
seen and completed. 
This is a separate form just for applying for the PPI. It shows  customers  were  expected  to 
tick boxes to select the type of cover they wanted. But there was also a section to complete 
that said I do not require Payment Protection . So I think customers would have known that 
they didnt need to take the PPI if they didnt  want it. 
Mr Bs mortgage offer letter includes a statement that the banks been instructed to provide 
PPI cover and this offer letter was signed  by him. So, overall,  I think  its likely Mr B was 
aware he was taking PPI at the time  and that he chose  to take it (by completing the 
application), knowing  he didnt have to. Although I can understand why he might  not 
remember this now as the sale was a long time ago. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think RBS advised Mr B to take the PPI so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  his sick pay benefits - and it still looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong, paying out on top of anything  he 
wouldve received  from his employer and potentially  longer than hed have  got his full rate of 
pay.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. Mr B was taking on a large and long term financial 
commitment, which was secured on his home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the 
repayments could  have been  serious for him. And I think having the security that his 
repayments wouldve  been made  if he was unable to work is likely to have been important to 
him. So I dont think  better information about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ref: DRN12144632Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
When the policy was sold,  RBS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr B about that. 
Because RBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  RBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest Mr B paid because 
of that.
RBS should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI.  RBS  should also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1214463