K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr F and Miss B say Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr F and Miss B took out a mortgage  in 1992 and at the same time they took out a PPI 
policy. Even though  this was a joint mortgage,  only Mr F was covered by the policy.  They  
paid a monthly amount for the policy.
If Mr F had made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  
would have paid out the repayment benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F and Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr F and Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr F and Miss B have said the PPI wasnt discussed  with them and they were not aware 
that it had been added to the mortgage account.  Neither Mr F and Miss B nor Lloyds have 
much of the information from the time of the sale, which is understandable considering  how 
long ago this took place.  So, where  there is limited information, I have  to determine  what I 
think is most likely  to have  happened in the circumstances.
In order for me to agree with Mr F and Miss B, Id have to think  it was more likely that Lloyds 
purposefully added the PPI to the mortgage  without  their knowledge. Whilst I agree this is 
possible, I dont think  its the most likely scenario.  Instead, in the absence  of any information 
persuading me otherwise,  I think its more likely Lloyds made Mr F and Miss B aware that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it.
Lloyds has provided  copies of internal records which show  that Mr F made  a claim under the 
policy in 1997.  So it would  seem that Mr F and Miss B were aware of the policy as they have 
benefited from the cover a few years after the sale.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more likely  that Lloyds made  it 
clear the policy  was optional and Mr F and Miss B agreed to take it out, knowing they could 
refuse it if they didnt  want it.
Mr F and Miss B say they didnt receive any advice about the policy.  Lloyds no longer has a 
record of how the policy was sold but it has considered the complaint on the basis that it 
recommended the PPI to Mr F. As this puts a greater responsibility on Lloyds, rather than 
Mr F and Miss B, and as it makes no difference to my outcome, Ive also reviewed the 
complaint on the basis that advice was given. This means Lloyds had to check that the PPI 
Ref: DRN12941532was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen of Mr Fs circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example it appears he was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Mr F and Miss B have  told us that Mr F would have received sick pay from his employer if he 
was too ill to work and they had some savings they could have used. Ive thought about what 
they have said but this policy would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr F would 
have received. And by having  this cover it would have enabled them  to protect any savings 
they did have  for another purpose or use them to cover other essential living  expenses. So I 
still think this policy could  have provided  a useful  benefit to them.
As I dont have  all of the documentation  from the date of the sale I dont know what  was 
explained to Mr F and Miss B about  the policy. So its possible the information  Lloyds  gave 
Mr F and Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been.  But as I mentioned 
before I think its more likely that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1294153