K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  about HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) and its handing of a direct debit 
indemnity claim. She wants HSBC to refund  her claim and to re-open her closed account.  
background 
Ms A had a fixed rate mortgage with a third party (M) which set her monthly repayments at 
around £300. In November  2016, that fixed rate period ended and Ms As mortgage rate 
became a standard rate. This caused her monthly repayments to increase to more than 
£580 per month.  
M continued  to claim the mortgage payments from Ms A through  her direct debit. 
In April 2017, Ms A contacted HSBC and advised that the direct  debit was incorrect.  She 
stated that she had only authorised a direct debit  for the £300 per month payment. She 
therefore requested  that the difference between  what  she had authorised and what  had 
been taken from her account  (around £1300 over six months)  be returned to her as part of 
the direct  debit indemnity scheme.  She also asked that HSBC prevent M taking more than 
the £300 per month in future.  
HSBC advised  Ms A that it was unable to process partial indemnity claims, and could not 
stop M from varying the amount of the direct debit to the higher  amount. 
Ms A and HSBC corresponded for some time over the payments and then Ms A requested 
that the whole amount of her mortgage  payments from November 2016  onwards to be 
returned to her through the indemnity scheme. 
HSBC refunded Ms A nearly  £6500 in summer  2018. 
As part of the scheme, HSBC then contacted M, who later provided evidence  that the direct 
debit was correct,  and in line with information given to Ms A. 
HSBC therefore  re-debited the amount of nearly £6500 in late summer 2018.  This left Ms A 
around £2500 overdrawn. 
Ms A complained to HSBC. She complained that the sum had been re-debited  from her 
account and that another direct debit had been  wrongly labelled  as a first payment. 
HSBC sent Ms A its response  to the complaint in September  2018.  On the second issue it 
explained that as there  had been a gap in payments of more than a year the original direct  
debit had lapsed and the direct debit which replaced  it was technically new. 
In respect of the re-debit to her account, it set out why this had been done and that it did not 
uphold her complaint.  
Ms A corresponded further with HSBC  and HSBC sent its final response.  HSBC decided that 
the relationship  between  HSBC and Ms A had broken down and so gave Ms A two months 
notice of its intention  to close her account. 
Ms A received income into her account each month,  which was then retained by HSBC. She 
was not able to withdraw the funds  as they were  absorbed into her overdraft.  
Ref: DRN18747092HSBC then closed  Ms As account  after the two months notice expired. 
HSBC sent Ms A a default notice, and later a final demand for the outstanding overdraft.
Ms A contacted HSBC and asked if it would now pay her compensation of £500  which  it had 
offered in relation to a matter in 2016.  At that time her debt outstanding was a little over 
£500. 
In December 2018, HSBC agreed that it would honour its previous offer and pay her the 
£500. 
Ms A then contacted us. She was unhappy  that the direct  debit refund had been  re-debited 
and she wanted  HSBC to return the funds to her. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that HSBC had not done  anything wrong  in its treatment of the direct debit indemnity, 
and re-debiting the funds after they were contested by M. She did, however, feel that HSBC 
had not been sufficiently  helpful to Ms A who appeared to be going through  a difficult time.  
She therefore recommended that HSBC  should write off the balance  of the account that was 
owed at the time of the account closure. 
HSBC has accepted that view, but Ms A has not. The complaint has therefore been passed  
for an ombudsman decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Ms As upset in seeing that a direct  debit  payment amount  had 
drastically increased, and that this was a surprise to her. In those circumstances, and where 
she believed  that she had authorised the specific sum, I can see why she would think that 
the increased amount was not authorised.  
HSBC has, however, provided evidence from M in which it explained  to Ms A that her 
previous mortgage  rate was coming to an end in November 2016, and explaining that this 
meant her monthly repayment would increase to more than £580 per month. 
Direct debits  can require a specific monthly amount, or can be variable depending  on the 
debt which  is owed  (for example, if someone  had a direct debit set up to pay their credit card 
balance off each  month,  this would be a variable amount). 
Here, it appears that Ms A authorised M to take her monthly repayment from her account  by 
direct debit, whatever  that amount was, rather than a specific amount. 
M was therefore entitled to change the amount  when the rate ended  and Ms As monthly  
repayment increased. 
The direct debit indemnity  scheme  is designed  to refund payments which  are taken without  
the customers authority,  or where a payment is duplicated, for example. It is not designed 
as a process to resolve disputes over the amount of variable payments.
Ref: DRN18747093HSBC was therefore correct when it advised  that the indemnity scheme that it could  not 
refund partial  payments  through  the scheme,  and that it could not fix the amount of the direct 
debit that M could seek in future, however I agree  with the investigator  that HSBC  could 
have offered Ms A more  help in dealing with her concerns. 
Ms A was clearly concerned that the payments being taken were wrong, and she described  
a number of circumstances which suggested that she was vulnerable at that time. I do not 
think it was helpful  or sufficient to simply tell Ms A that she would need to take up the issue  
with M, without explaining that she was able to take other actions in the meantime. For 
example, HSBC could  have advised  Ms A that she could  cancel the direct  debit  to prevent 
further payments  being taken, and then contact M to set up a new payment arrangement, or 
it could have advised her that if she wished to send a specific  sum each month  this could be 
done by a standing order payment. This advice may not have resolved Ms As issue  with M 
but it would  have provided her with an alternative to claiming back  the full payments in an 
effort to not overpay, as she believed she was doing. 
When HSBC refunded the money to Ms A, and then M provided evidence that the direct 
debit was authorised,  HSBC was correct to re-debit  the money from Ms As account and pay 
this back to M. 
I do, however,  think that HSBC could have  been  more helpful to Ms A, who was then pushed  
into an overdraft unexpectedly. 
In relation to the account closure, it is a matter  for HSBC to decide who it wants  as 
customers, so long as it gives requisite notice of account closures. In this instance I have 
seen no evidence of HSBC discriminating against Ms A, and it was entitled to close  her 
account on notice,  but I appreciate that the timing  while Ms A was overdrawn  will have 
added to her distress.  
As a result, I agree  with the investigators  view that HSBC acted correctly in relation to the 
direct debit payments,  but that was not sufficiently supportive and helpful towards a 
consumer who was experiencing difficulties  at the relevant times.  
This view would normally lead to an award  of compensation to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience that Ms A suffered. I acknowledge that this situation would have been 
stressful for Ms A, and that this would have been compounded by her not receiving her 
income to the account for several months  when this was being  absorbed  into her debt. I also 
understand that she suffered difficulties  as a result  of the account  closure.  It is unclear 
whether there has been any adverse information  recorded against Ms A on her credit file. 
I would assess Ms As distress  and inconvenience as being  severe.  HSBC  has agreed to the 
investigators recommendation to write off the debt that was outstanding at the time the 
account was closed (£1317.77).  I think this is fair and is in line with other  awards we would 
make. HSBC has also agreed to ensure that no adverse information is recorded on Ms As 
credit file in respect  of these events. 
As, however, Ms A reduced her outstanding balance after account closure by her income  
into the account, and also by accepting  an offer of compensation from HSBC from 2016,  
which was offset  against  the balance, I believe that Ms A has already settled a significant 
proportion of the amount that was outstanding  at account closure. 
Ref: DRN18747094This should now be refunded to Ms A, along  with interest at the rate of 8% per annum  from 
the date from which  it was paid to HSBC,  up until the date of settlement. 
I understand that Ms A will not be satisfied with this decision  and believes that the full 
amount of the direct debit claim should  be refunded but I hope  that this decision explains 
why I have reached this view.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms As complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Return to Ms A any payments that were  made  into, or against,  her account after the 
date of closure (including £776.80 rental income);
Pay to Ms A interest  on the above sums,  at a rate of 8% p/a from the date when  the 
payment was received by HSBC up until the date of settlement. 
To pay to Ms A the £500 compensation offered and accepted in respect of her 2016  
complaint; 
Pay to Ms A interest  on the £500 compensation, at a rate of 8% p/a from the date 
when the offer was accepted, up until the date of settlement; and 
Ensure that no adverse  information  is recorded against Ms A in respect of this issue, 
and that any default  is removed from her credit file; and
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1874709