K820x#14complaint
Mr P is complaining about the amount Autonet Insurance  Services  Limited (Autonet) is 
asking him to pay after he cancelled his commercial  vehicle insurance policy.
Mr P is represented by his wife (Mrs P) in this complaint. But for the ease of reference I shall 
refer to any representations she made on his behalf as being made by Mr P.
background
In 2015 Mr P took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy  to insure  his work van through 
a broker. Mr P works as a carpet  fitter. The broker later stopped selling these types of 
policies so the business was transferred to Autonet  another broker  to manage. In 
September 2017 Autonet wrote to him inviting him to renew the policy  and asked him to call 
if he wants to do so. His wife called Autonet and agreed to the renewal.
However, during  the policy term, Mr P decided to upgrade his work van and Mrs P called to 
discuss this. She said that Mr P was buying  a replacement larger van and he was intending 
to do some modifications which were relevant to his work. Autonet  said that there was an 
additional premium  for changing the van, which Mrs P paid. But it said that it would  have to 
refer the matter to the insurer because the insurer  may have some concerns in respect  to 
the modifications.
Autonet later contacted Mr P and said that the insurer  wasnt willing to insure the new van 
with the modifications.  Mrs P then sourced another insurance policy  which would insure  the 
van, so she contacted Autonet  to cancel the policy. But Autonet  said that Mr P owes  around 
£300 following  the cancellation. It said it could  source them  a replacement policy,  but she 
said shed already got one.
Mr P doesnt  think this is fair because he was forced to cancel the policy because the insurer 
wouldnt insure him anymore. He doesnt  think he should be charged  any cancellation fees 
when the cancellation was out of his control.
I issued a provisional decision partially  upholding  this complaint. I said I that I could only look 
at the actions of Autonet and I couldnt comment on anything the insurer  did  such  as in 
respect to its decision to not cover the new van. I said I could fully understand why Mr P was 
unhappy with what has happened as he was forced  to cancel the policy because of the 
insurer's decision. But I said my role in this is to assess whether Autonet  has acted fairly 
and, if not, whether Mr P has lost out as a result.
I said that the terms of the business  clearly  set out that if the policy is cancelled after 14 
days, the following applies:
1.Autonet may charge  a cancellation fee of £79.95; and
2.There will be no refund of the additional  products Mr P took out.
I said that, in this case, Mr P took out four separate additional products. Mr P cancelled 
these policies after 14 days  and, the terms of the policy clearly sets out that hes not entitled 
to a refund.  I explained that its standard industry  practice that these products are non-
refundable because the administration cost of cancelling these products is usually more than 
the pro-rata refund of premium. I didnt think these terms were  unfair.
Ref: DRN14160362I thought that Autonet should have clearly set out that these werent refundable when Mr P 
took out the policy. I also thought that it didnt take enough steps at renewal to highlight  this. 
I said its not enough to simply ask Mr P to read the terms of the policy. So I didnt think  it did 
enough to highlight this to Mr P.
However, I said I also had to think whether Mr P would have acted differently had Autonet 
done what it should have done. I thought  Mr P clearly decided he wanted the protection of 
these additional  products  as hed been  paying  for them for a number years.  And the total 
combined cost of them werent insignificant. Also, I said its clear that, while  he may have 
cancelled the policy early, Mr P had no conception at renewal that he might  do so. Given  
this, I thought Mr P would have still taken out these products had he known  that the 
premiums were non-refundable. So I didnt think Mr P had lost out because  of what Autonet  
did here.
However, I also thought  about the cancellation  fee of £79.95  that Autonet  charged.  And I 
thought this was excessive.  I said any administration  fee that a broker  (or insurer) charges 
must only reflect the administration costs it incurs  in carrying out the work   i.e. it shouldnt  
include a degree  of profit. I wasnt persuaded that £79.95  was a fair reflection of the work  
involved in this respect (especially given the insurer also charged £25 so this suggests it did 
some of the work itself). I also noted  that it charged  £57.22 to set up the policy and I didnt 
think the administration of cancelling the policy was more than that required to set up the 
policy. 
Given this I thought £50 was a fairer charge to cancel the policy. So I thought  Autonet  should 
reduce the amount Mr P is required to pay by £29.95. I said that if Mr P had already paid 
this, I said Autonet  should pay 8% simple interest  (less tax if correctly deducted) per year 
from when he paid it until he gets it back.
Autonet accepted my provisional decision.  Mr P didnt agree with it. He said that hed 
invested heavily  in his equipment and had a short turnaround. He said its not uncommon to 
fit carpeting equipment  into a van. He said he told advised Autonet  of the date the equipment  
was being fitted into the van and that this couldnt  be changed. He said that Autonet never  
told him that it would  find an alternative  to keep him insured if the insurer was unable to 
insure him.
Hes unhappy that Autonet didnt find him an alternative insurance  policy. He says that he 
wouldnt have taken  out a new insurance  policy had Autonet  sourced him a replacement  
insurance policy when  the insurer told him he wasnt insured. He said he did everything that 
was expected of him and thinks its unfair hes lost out as a result. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all the comments that Mr P has made in response to my provisional 
decision. But Ive come to the same conclusion as the one I did in my provisional decision 
and Ill now explain why.
I can understand why Mr P is unhappy  with what has happened.  But I think the fundamental 
reason hes in the position hes in is because his insurer wasnt  willing  to cover his new van 
with the modifications.  I cant hold Autonet responsible for that. 
Ref: DRN14160363I note Mr P says that Autonet should  have offered him an alternative insurance  policy.  But I 
can see that it did offer to do that, but hed already taken out a different policy. It appears 
that Autonet  initially  called  him to give him an update that his current  insurer  wouldnt insure 
the replacement  van. Following this, Mr P immediately took out a new insurance policy. I 
dont think it was unreasonable  that Autonet hadnt  immediately  sourced a replacement 
policy, as it would need to await Mr Ps instructions  on what  to do before it did so. And it did 
offer to find a replacement  policy that day, but Mr P didnt  want it to do so. I cant  hold 
Autonet responsible for that. 
Neither party has raised any further  comments  in respect to what  I said about the 
cancellation charges Mr P incurred. So I still think Autonet should reduce the amount Mr P is 
required to pay by £29.95. If Mr P had already paid this, Autonet  should  pay 8% simple  
interest (less  tax if correctly deducted) per year from when he paid it until he gets it back.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I partially uphold this complaint. And I require Autonet 
Insurance Services Limited  to reduce the amount Mr P is required to pay by £29.95. If Mr P 
has already paid this, Autonet  should  pay 8% simple interest  (less  tax if correctly deducted) 
per year from when he paid it until he gets it back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1416036