K820x#14complaint
Mr D says HSBC UK Bank  Plc, trading as First Direct (HSBC),  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy on a credit card.
background
Mr D took out the PPI in 1998, at the same  time as applying for a credit card through a 
postal application.  The credit card account, and the PPI policy,  closed in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr D didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ds credit  card application from 1998.  Mr D had to actively  tick 
yes or no to confirm whether he wanted  PPI or not. I can see that Mr D ticked yes for PPI, 
although given  how much time has passed  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr D so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Mr D says he received good sick pay from his employer  if he was unable to work because  of 
an accident or sickness. Mr D also said he was living at home and didnt  have any major 
financial outgoings, so could have met his card repayments and didnt need the PPI.
The PPI would have  paid out at the same time as Mr D was receiving any sick pay and for 
longer. In the event of a successful claim the PPI would  have covered 10% of the 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr D was off work  because of an 
accident or sickness or if he became unemployed. The policy also included  life cover. So I 
think it provided a useful benefit  and I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that Mr D chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and as explained above, it looked like 
it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.
Ref: DRN19540552Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mr D off taking out 
the policy, given  his situation at the time.
This means  that, even if HSBC didnt give Mr D all the information it should have done when 
it sold him the policy, I dont find that Mr D has lost out as a result of anything that HSBC did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1954055