K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mrs G owed  on her store card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs G couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning  below.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Gs credit application form. There is a section related to PPI and the 
box opting for the policy has been ticked.   Mrs  G has also signed  the overall form so I think 
its likely  to reflect what she wanted.  On balance in think its more likely  Mrs G chose to take 
the policy knowing she had a choice. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs G and I think thats likely to be right.  So 
it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  sure it gave
Mrs G clear enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even  if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information,  I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken  out the policy.  
 
I say this because  Mrs G was eligible for the policy and based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. I think its unlikely clearer information about the policy wouldve 
affected her decision to take it out.  
Mrs G says she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. She also says she had 
some savings she couldve relied  on. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
employee benefits she wouldve received. And if Mrs G was unable to work because of 
accident or sickness the PPI wouldve paid out until she was able to return  to work, or until 
Ref: DRN17525922the outstanding balance  was cleared   whichever came first. And the policy  would cover the 
same term if she was to lose her job. And having the policy  meant she could use her savings 
to cover other necessary expenses at what  could be a difficult  time. So I think  the policy 
wouldve been useful  to Mrs G. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  it.
And overall,  when taking  into account everything Ive seen  and been  told, I dont think  Mrs G 
has lost out as a result  of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1752592