K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey National) 
mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out a joint mortgage in 1997  with Santander. The mortgage was transferred into 
her name only in June  2001. A short  while later, in July 2001 Mrs W took out a regular 
premium MPPI policy within a meeting in one of Santanders branches.  The policy and 
mortgage ended in December 2004.
Mrs W says she was mis-sold the MPPI policy by Santander. She says the policy was not 
suitable for her due to her circumstances at the time of sale.  She does not think she was in a 
position to make a fully informed decision about it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mrs W was given  a choice to have the MPPI policy. 
This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see all of the 
sales documentation that would have been  used at the time of sale.
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read 
Mrs Ws recollections. Having done  this, I cant be sure what  was discussed  between    
Mrs W and Santander  during the meeting.  Its completely understandable that Mrs Ws 
recollections are not detailed as the sale took place many years  ago. 
Mrs W took out the MPPI in a meeting separately from her application for a mortgage  
and so I think it is more likely  she would  have had a conversation  about  the policy after 
the finance was in place.  And because of this and considering  what I know of sales  
carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me 
safely to say Santander didnt explain that MPPI  was an optional feature in the meeting. I 
havent, on this occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely  draw that 
conclusion.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs W or not 
during the sale.  If it did, it would  have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for her. On looking at the very limited information provided and also taking 
into consideration what the parties  have said, and what I know of Santander sales during  
this time, I think advice was given.
Ref: DRN18692552And based on the information Ive seen,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mrs W. I say 
this after considering Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale.  Because, although     
Mrs W says she had 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay she could have used, the 
MPPI policy would  have paid out in addition to her means.  Having the policy  in place 
would mean Mrs W could  use any provisions  she may have had to cover  other  
expenses. I dont think her means are sufficient for me reasonably  to say that she 
wouldnt have had at least some use for the policy. 
Mrs W was also not affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  main benefits  
such as, for example,  those that affect  self employed people or policy  holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mrs W needed better advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations and if she had received  clear information on 
these terms I dont  think it would have put her off.
 
Finally, I am not sure if Santander  gave  Mrs W clear information about this. But even if it 
did, I dont think Mrs W would have done anything differently for the same reasons as I 
have already given.  Ive also seen  nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale,  but based  on what I have, I do not think the policy  was mis-sold.
my decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1869255