K821x#15Complaint
ESL has complained  that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, t/a Cashplus,  wont refund 
unauthorised transactions.
ESL is a private  limited  company.  ESL is represented by Mr M who is its director.
Background
Mr M went out to a work  Christmas  party. On his way home, the next morning,  he noticed 
that the companys debit card was missing from his wallet. When  he got home, he checked  
the companys  online  account. He saw transactions, which he didnt recognise.
Mr M called Cashplus. He reported  the card as stolen  and told it there were transactions he 
didnt recognise.  At the time, he mentioned  about  three transactions. However,  there were 
eleven transactions totalling £4, 769.35  made on 17 December 2018 between  9.37 and 
13.32. The transactions were made  with the companys  card and PIN. 
Mr M said he didnt  make  these transactions. He called back later to tell Cashplus that the 
sim card was missing  from his mobile phone. He thought this was how a third party  got hold 
of his card details.
He asked Cashplus for a refund. 
Cashplus decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It said Mr M told it hed kept a 
record of his PIN in an email and that his phone had been compromised. It decided  hed 
been grossly negligent  in keeping a note of his PIN.
Mr M wasnt happy with this decision and so he brought  his complaint to this service.  
He told this service hed spent the evening with an individual, whom hed never met before, 
and he suspected this person had stolen the debit card from his pocket.  He said this person 
would have seen  him enter his PIN when using it. He believed  the same  person had taken 
the sim card.  He thought this was an attempt at preventing him reporting  the theft of the 
debit card.
The investigator upheld  ESLs  complaint  because  Cashplus hadnt  provided any evidence  in 
support of its decision.
Cashplus subsequently provided its call recordings. It said the calls showed  that:
Mr M didnt dispute a transaction made at 9.38 for £290. The inference  drawn  by 
Cashplus is that he still had the card with him
he said hed lost the card on the underground, not that a third party had stolen  it
hed told it hed kept the PIN in an email
he later changed  his statement to say hed memorised the PIN, and
Mr M was an unreliable witness.
The investigator reviewed  his assessment and still decided to uphold the complaint. He said 
Cashplus had misinterpreted what Mr M had told it in the phone calls. And he thought,  on 
balance, that Mr M had memorised the PIN. However, even if hed kept it in an email,  this 
wasnt a serious disregard or indifference to an obvious risk, which is the test for gross  
negligence.
Ref: DRN19262702As Cashplus disagreed  with the investigators assessment, this case has come to me for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigators initial assessment and his revised  view set out the facts,  the relevant  
regulations and the evidence. Both Mr M and Cashplus  have read the investigators views,  
so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which form the basis of my decision. However, 
I can assure both parties that Ive read the file, including their comments and evidence.
Generally, Cashplus  can hold ESL liable  for the disputed  transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that ESL (through Mr M) made or authorised them;  or if 
Mr M failed  to comply with the terms and conditions to keep the card and PIN safe by acting 
with gross negligence.
There is a surprising paucity of evidence from Cashplus. It hasnt sent us any account 
statements or technical reports showing how the disputed transactions were  made.  It has 
told us they were chip and PIN transactions but Ive not seen the evidence.  
However, I cant ignore  the fact there were disputed transactions  and they seem to be ATM 
cash withdrawals and point of sale transactions. Therefore, I must assume  they were made 
with ESLs debit card and PIN. However, the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Cashplus to hold ESL liable.  So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr M consented  to the 
transactions being made; or that he was grossly negligent.
From what  Ive seen, which is very little, Im not persuaded that Mr M consented to the 
transactions. I say this because it appears the debit card was being used while Mr M was on 
the phone  to Cashplus. And as Ive already  mentioned, Cashplus hasnt provided any 
technical data showing timings to dispute this. And I dont think  its likely Mr M was making  
transactions whilst  reporting his card as stolen. So, this means  a third party had the card.
Cashplus says Mr M was inconsistent and unreliable. It says:
A very important point  is that one of the transactions claimed as fraudulent was for £180 
made at 9.37am. A further ATM transaction was made at 9.38am for £290 which Mr M 
does not claim is fraudulent.
Ive listened to the first call. I think its clear Mr M was still going through the list of 
disputed transactions.  I dont think there  was any agreement at this stage on what  the 
final list of disputed transactions  looked like. Besides,  Cashplus  hasnt  sent us any 
statements or audit  reports  showing timings for disputed  or genuine transactions  so I 
cant reach any conclusions on timings or patterns. However, what  has emerged since 
that first phone call is that Mr M disputes  all transactions made on 17 December 2018.
Ref: DRN19262703he called  at 11.04am on 17th December advising  his card had been lost (not stolen) at 
9am on the underground. 
Ive listened to the calls. He repeatedly says his card was stolen.  In the first call, he says 
he cant give the call handler  the card number because it was stolen. Also, its clear that 
he doesnt know when  or how the card was stolen.  He says he realised the card was 
gone when he came out the underground at 9am. It was the case handler  who 
interpreted this as lost on the underground  at 9 am.
he called  later at 11.40am advising his SIM had been stolen which is how he thinks the 
fraudster has found out his pin as he kept it on an email. 
Mr M did tell the case handler that he kept his PIN in an email.  And he called back to 
report that his SIM card had been stolen. He did say he thought  this was how the 
fraudster accessed  the card details and PIN. I think, at best, he was searching for an 
explanation for how a third party got hold of his card details. He later changed what  hed 
said. He said he didnt  keep his PIN on his phone and that hed memorised it. 
I dont consider this evidence  is enough  to show Mr M was unreliable or as Cashplus infers, 
that he authorised  the transactions. He was inconsistent about the PIN and so I will now 
consider whether he acted with gross negligence.
In the first call to Cashplus,  Mr M said he kept the PIN in an email. It was a direct answer to 
a clear question.  On balance, I think he probably  did keep the PIN in an email. But this is 
also consistent with having memorised the PIN.
The question I now have  to consider  is whether storing the PIN in an email  is grossly 
negligent. 
Cashplus says keeping  a written note of the PIN is gross negligence. It has referred  us to its 
terms and conditions, which say:
4.2 Keep  Your PIN safe, by memorising  it, never disclosing it to anyone  or by letting anyone  
see You enter it. We recommend You do not write it down. If You do write Your  PIN down or 
disclose it to any other individual, You may be held liable for any fraudulent  transactions  
made using  Your card.
6.3 Unless We have  reason  to suspect fraud by You, or that You have failed to comply with 
these Terms and Conditions with intent or gross negligence We will refund  the amount of the 
unauthorised or incorrect transaction(s).
13.3  Gross negligence  could  include keeping  Your PIN close to Your card, so that both are 
easy to use by a third party.
13.4 You will be responsible for i) any unauthorised activity if You or any ABC holder acts 
fraudulently or with gross negligence and ii) any loss or fraud that results directly from a 
Cardholders failure to advise Us promptly of any name, address  or contact details changes.
However, as the investigator explained, there is a legal test for gross  negligence. For a 
consumer to be held grossly negligent under the PSRs there needs to be a serious disregard 
or indifference to an obvious risk. I dont think Mr Ms actions  met this test in this case. 
Ref: DRN19262704I agree  that, in some circumstances, keeping a written note of the PIN is gross negligence, 
where for example the PIN is kept close to the card,  as mentioned in the terms and 
conditions or in an easily accessible place. But I dont see how storing a PIN in an email 
shows a serious disregard or indifference to an obvious risk. It might  be negligent but not 
gross negligence. And I dont think that someone  stealing a SIM card and then using it to 
access an email account, is an obvious  risk.
So, for these reasons,  I dont think Mr M has acted with gross  negligence. I think hes been 
careless, probably even  negligent, but Im not persuaded that his actions amounted  to gross 
negligence. And as Cashplus  pursued  minimal investigation into whether his actions were  
grossly negligent,  there is very little evidence to support its decision. 
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable  for Cashplus to refund the disputed 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint.
I am asking  Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  t/a Cashplus to:
refund  £4, 769.35
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions  left the account until
they are refunded, and
pay £100 for the inconvenience caused  to ESL for having to bring this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask ESL to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1926270