K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy on 
a credit card taken out in 2005.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Ill explain the reasons why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
HSBC no longer has any records of how this policy was sold but, as Mrs B has said that she 
completed a leaflet, it has provided a sample  of the credit agreement which it says would 
have been completed if she had filled in the application in a branch. HSBC had to give Mrs B 
clear enough  information  to enable  her to decide if the cover was right for her.
From looking  at this sample  document I can see that it mentions  PPI, however, I dont have 
any evidence to show that Mrs B was given clear information about the cost of the policy, in 
real terms.  The sample document confirms that a premium would be charged but doesnt 
explain that interest would be charged on the premiums if there  was an outstanding balance  
or that she would need to keep paying the premiums  during a claim. So I dont think  its likely 
that Mrs B would have  been made  aware of the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs B as she has told us she would have received sick 
pay for at least six months,  but less than 12 months,  if she was too ill to work.  And she has 
also said that she had savings which she could have used to meet her repayments - the 
equivalent of at least six months  of her salary.  Taking into account her job role and length  of 
service I think  it is likely she would have received significant employee benefits and I have 
no reason to doubt that she wouldnt have had the amount of savings that she has told us 
about. Given the employee  benefits and savings that Mrs B has told us she had at the time, I 
dont think she would  have thought  the policy was value for money if she had fully 
understood the costs. 
So overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  HSBC gave clear  enough  
information to Mrs B to enable her to decide if the policy  was right for her. And if it had, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  it 
value for money.  So I think Mrs B has lost out as a result of what HSBC  did wrong.
Putting things  right
HSBC should  put Mrs B in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.HSBC should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN13369902So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mrs B owed  when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what  Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  HSBC  works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more  than enough to clear her balance, HSBC  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs B paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs B wouldve owed  HSBC something on her credit card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.HSBC should tell Mrs B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1336990