K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance  Company Limited 
(DAS) have incorrectly combined  two separate claims they have made  against  their legal 
expenses insurance  policy, reducing  their overall  indemnity limit from £100,000  to £50,000.
For the sake of clarity when I reference DAS I mean both the underwriter  and any agents 
working on its behalf. 
background
Mr and Mrs M are involved  in long running disputes with their neighbours. The issues  
involved are numerous  and complex  and resulted in Mr and Mrs M bringing a claim about 
access to a private road in 2013.  Then in January 2015 they contacted DAS again  to start a 
second claim, this time in response  both to an allegation of nuisance and trespass made  by 
their neighbours and also to raise concerns over encroachment by their neighbours into their 
property.
DAS accepted both claims when they were submitted and began assessing them. In the 
meantime, the relationship between Mr and Mrs M and their neighbours continued to 
deteriorate and became increasingly  hostile. 
The two claims continued in this manner for some time. However, in 2016 DAS contacted  
Mr and Mrs M to say it appeared  their neighbours were no longer pursuing their legal action 
and so the 2015 claim would be closed. But despite  this DAS continued to work under both 
claim references until late 2017, at which point it confirmed to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  that 
the outstanding issues between Mr and Mrs M and their neighbours would be considered 
under the 2013 claim only. This meant  that where previously Mr and Mrs M had two 
separate claims, both of which had £50,000 indemnity limits attached to them, now there 
would be a single claim, with a single £50,000  indemnity  limit. 
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that the decision to combine  the claims, and therefore 
reduce the overall indemnity limit from £100,000 to £50,000 is grossly unfair. They  have said 
that due to numerous errors made by DAS and how it has handled their case to date, they 
have used the £50,000 available  to them via the 2013 claim. As such  they believe they 
should either be allowed to keep both claim references open or the £50,000 indemnity from 
the 2015 claim should be added to the indemnity from the 2013 claim.  
Ref: DRN10523952I issued a provisional decision on 18 March 2021. I found that DAS were wrong to merge  the 
2013 and 2015 claims together, thus reducing the overall available indemnity limit to 
£50,000. I said DAS should reopen the 2015 claim and provide Mr and Mrs M with a full cost 
breakdown detailing all the work completed  on the 2015 claim from when it began to when it 
was closed. In addition I said it should clarify any work relating to the 
encroachment/boundary issue was billed  against  the 2013 claim and provide costings for 
this work. I also set out that subject to receiving detailed costings from Mr and Mrs Ms 
solicitors outlining work done in relation to the 2015 claim, any work done regarding  the 
encroachment/boundary concerns and all linked costs incurred so far, it use any remaining 
indemnity towards  these  costs. Where Mr M and Mrs M have already paid these costs 
directly they should  provide evidence of payment.  Finally, I requested  DAS pay Mr and Mrs 
M £500  compensation for the trouble and upset cause in how it handled  their claim. 
Both Mr and Mrs M and DAS responded to the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs M indicated  that they accepted the outcome but raised a number of issues  they 
wanted me to clarify in the final decision. These mainly concerned whether or not DAS had 
correctly stated their neighbours had stopped pursuing a claim against them  in 2016 and a 
request for a full and detailed breakdown of all the costs  charged by DAS to date.
DAS didnt accept  the outcome and raised  concerns that I had relied on information  that had 
been provided to this service after the initial investigation was completed. It said it had been  
disadvantaged as it hadnt been  provided with a copy of the barristers  second  opinion from 
October 2020. It requested that I reconsider  the decision based solely on the evidence  
provided when  the case  was originally  considered by the investigator.  
I will address these  concerns below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the provisional  decision I issued was lengthy  and detailed, so I wont repeat it in full here.  
Instead I will focus on answering the questions raised by both parties  in response to it. 
Mrs and Mrs M have  said that DAS were wrong  to say their neighbours stopped  pursuing a 
claim against them in 2016. They want reassurances that they will be able to continue to 
defend themselves against the claim of nuisance/trespass made by their neighbours in 2014 
via the 2015 claim  once  it has been reopened.
As I explained in the provisional  decision,  I believe DAS was wrong to close the 2015 claim. I 
found that, while it appeared Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours  had stopped pursuing a legal  claim 
against them  in 2016, the issues  regarding encroachment by their neighbours was ongoing 
and part of the 2015 claim and so it shouldve remained open.  As I am directing DAS to 
reopen the 2015 claim I would expect it to consider any evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs M 
that supports  their assertion  that the action set out by their neighbours in 2014 continued to 
be actively pursued. 
However, its important to clarify to Mr and Mrs M that the nuisance/trespass claim their 
neighbours started in 2014  may have been  abandoned despite  the fact that the issues  
between the two parties continued and their neighbours later made  additional allegations via 
Ref: DRN10523953their solicitors. Whether  or not the original action, as pursued by their neighbours in 2014,  
remains ongoing is a matter for Mr and Mrs M to clarify with DAS. Assuming they can 
provide evidence to support this is the case, and they are not seeking  cover for a different 
action, I would expect  DAS consider it as part of the 2015 claim.  
Mr and Mrs M also commented  that there is an ongoing dispute  regarding the periods of 
cover and whether  or not DAS made  an error when it accepted the claim in the first place. As 
I explained in the provisional decision this is a separate issue,  raised after this complaint was 
brought to this service and wasnt part of the original investigation. So, I wont  address it 
here. It is my understanding it is being investigated by this service as a separate complaint. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs M asked if DAS could be directed to provide invoices for all the costs  
they have charged  against the claims, describing  what they are for and the amount. As part 
of the redress set out in the provisional decision,  I requested that DAS provide Mr and Mrs M 
with a full cost breakdown detailing the work  completed on the 2015 claim from when it 
began to when  it was closed. I believe this should  provide Mr and Mrs M with the information 
they have requested. 
In its response to the provisional decision DAS expressed concern that I had based  my 
findings on information that had been sent in to the service after the initial  investigation and 
that it had not had the opportunity to consider or respond to. In particular it said that I had 
upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint based  on legal opinion  provided by Mr and Mrs Ms 
barrister in October 2020. I would like to assure DAS this is not the case. I based my 
reasons for upholding the complaint on the content  of an email  sent to DAS in 2015 by Mr M 
after he had contacted it to start the second claim and the terms and conditions of the 
insurance policy itself.  This evidence  was provided  as part of the original file submissions. 
As I explained in the provisional  decision:
Mr M contacted DAS in early 2015  after he had received  a letter  from his neighbours which  
indicated they were going to pursue a claim against him and Mrs M for nuisance  and 
trespass. This time, rather than just phoning  DAS to inform them  of this new issue,  Mr M 
followed up the initial call with an email  outlining what the second claim was about.  In the 
email Mr M asked  the following:
 can you please review for passing to XX [solicitors acting on the private 
road claim] to defend the claim/our neighbours to accept our proposals/rebuttal. We 
also want our neighbours encroachment removing from what  we believe is our land if 
XX can review/proceed  with this as well.
We want a fence along the entire length,  to correctly divide the respective titles which  
we believe our original  leases confirms [sic] this should  be repaired/maintained at 
joint cost 
DAS responded  to Mr Ms email a week later confirming  they would consider his claim and 
sent an email which  included the following claim summary:
Summary of your claim
We are covering you for:
Ref: DRN10523954The claim is to defend the customer  against allegations of nuisance/trespass  from 
their neighbours.
However, the above summary doesnt cover everything Mr M had asked for help with in his 
earlier email. While it clearly sets out the issues regarding the allegations made  by 
Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours, it doesnt address  or acknowledge Mr Ms request for support 
dealing with the encroachment/boundary issue. And it seems to me that this is what  
ultimately led to the confusion regarding the numbers of active  claims Mr and Mrs M had. 
Because once  their neighbours  stopped  pursuing  their claim for nuisance and trespass, DAS 
stated the 2015 claim had ended;  despite  the fact that the encroachment issues  were  
ongoing, and indeed continued to escalate,  well after the email Mr M sent at the start of 
2015. 
This was further confused by the fact that, although DAS didnt include the 
encroachment/boundary concerns in the 2015 claim as requested, it did continue  to include 
these as part of the overall  work  it was doing  in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms claims. In the 
2018 opinion  provided by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister, it appears that he is also of the opinion 
that the encroachment/boundary concern is part of the overall  claim and has been accepted 
by DAS as such.  And having reviewed  all of its submissions in full, I cant see anywhere that 
DAS disputed this or said that it wouldnt provide cover for these elements of Mr M and Mrs 
Ms claim. So, it would appear  that, while it didnt explicitly  set out the 
encroachment/boundary concerns as part of the 2015 claim as per Mr Ms email request, 
DAS did accept them and did effectively provide cover for them. 
What seems to have happened instead  is that DAS, having accepted the 
encroachment/boundary concerns raised by Mr and Mrs M, then tried to link these issues  to 
the 2013 private road claim. This moved  the issues  away from the 2015 claim, which DAS 
had defined as a nuisance/trespass  claim resulting from the allegations made by 
Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours. Therefore, when Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours dropped  their 
allegation of nuisance and trespass, DAS continued  to provide cover for the 
encroachment/boundary concerns while at the same time saying the cause for the 2015 
claim had dropped away and Mr and Mrs M had only one active  claim left, which  left them  
with only one indemnity limit. 
I believe DAS was wrong to do this. The encroachment issue,  which  is still ongoing and has 
in fact escalated  exponentially since 2015, was never part of the 2013 claim as per the claim 
summary set out by DAS. It was a separate matter, first raised by Mr and Mrs M with a 
formal request for help in the 2015 email  cited  above. It seems to me that the confusion  
started with the summary of the claim as set out by DAS in 2015 which  failed to 
acknowledge or include the encroachment/boundary concerns as forming part of that claim. 
As I believe there are two separate claims, one for the private road issue  and one for 
encroachment/boundary issue, the next thing I need  to consider is whether or not the 
encroachment/boundary issue has the same originating cause as the private road issue. If 
they do, then following the policy term set out above, it may not have been unreasonable  for 
DAS to combine  these  under the 2013 claim and thus provide Mr and Mrs M with only one 
indemnity limit. 
There is a lot of relevant  case law that considers the use of language and how to define 
words such as originating and events, which I wont detail in this decision,  but which I have 
considered as part of my review of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  against  DAS.
Ref: DRN10523955I have also considered the two opinions provided by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister in relation to 
this matter. In the first from December 2018 he set out that both issues had the same 
originating cause, i.e. the ongoing  dispute  between Mr and Mrs M and their neighbours. As 
such his recommendation at that time was that Mr and Mrs M had a single valid claim and 
thus were entitled  to a single indemnity limit. However, Mr and Mrs M disputed the opinion of 
their barrister at that time and said they believed he hadnt been  provided with all the 
relevant information  from DAS and so his opinion was inconclusive.  They  then requested a 
second opinion  on the matter in October  2020  once they were  satisfied  that he had access  
to all of the pertinent information  regarding the matter. 
In the second  opinion  the barrister does argue  that there are two separate claims,  with two 
separate indemnity limits. However, this opinion doesnt address the question of whether or 
not the encroachment issues and private  road issues have  the same  originating  cause. 
Rather it sets out an argument that as things have progressed from 2018, when he issued  
his first opinion, there is now a second  separate claim linked to subsequent issues  that have  
arisen. This second  claim,  as set out by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister, relates to nuisance and 
trespass by Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours. As this opinion is primarily focused on issues that 
arose after 2015 it doesnt help address  the issue at hand, i.e. whether or not there were two 
separate and distinct claims, arising from separate  and distinct  causes,  in 2015. 
Therefore, I need to consider the argument set out in the 2018 opinion  regarding whether or 
not the 2013 and 2015  claims shared the same originating cause. 
In the first opinion provided by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister, he defined the claims as a private  
road claim  and a trespass claim,  and not an encroachment/boundary  claim.  So, when he 
goes on to state that these issues have the same originating cause i.e. the dispute between  
Mr and Mrs M and their neighbours, it is within this context. 
However, as explained  above I disagree  with the definition of the claims as set out by the 
barrister in his 2018 opinion.  Rather  I believe that the two claims relate to a) who had the 
right to access and use the private road, and then separately b), Mr and Mrs Ms concerns 
regarding boundary rights and encroachment onto their property by their neighbours. 
While I appreciate that one could say both claims can be traced back  to an ongoing  dispute  
between Mr and Mrs M and their neighbours, I believe this would be an unfair over 
simplification of what has happened. And neighbour dispute  is too broad  a term to use here.  
I say this for two reasons,  firstly claims relating to land use or ownership can occur for a 
number of reasons  and dont necessarily need to be linked back to the relationship  between  
the parties involved, i.e. the fact that they are neighbours. And secondly, if a claim results  in 
increased hostility between neighbours, it seems to me that any arising dispute is a 
consequence of the claim and not its originating cause. 
I also dont think it would  be fair to interpret the clause as implying  that any time a dispute  
arises between the same parties it should automatically be treated as having the same 
originating cause. People cant be defined as the reason  why claims happen,  and if the 
policy had intended  to prevent multiple  claims between the same  parties from being  
accepted, I think  it wouldve explicitly said so. 
Thats not to say that the behaviour of people cant contribute to why someone may want  to 
make a claim. And indeed, I believe its fair to say the issues  addressed in the second 
opinion put forward  by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister demonstrates this, as it sets out how 
increasingly hostile  and difficult the relationship between both parties has become. But when 
Ref: DRN10523956considering what  was happening in 2015  when Mr M contacted  DAS about the second 
claim, I dont  think the behaviour being considered  (the neighbours encroachment onto Mr 
and Mrs Ms property) was directly linked to the issues surrounding the private road claim. 
That means that, based on the evidence I have reviewed so far, I believe Mr and Mrs M 
have two separate claims which  have two separate originating causes.  The 2013 claim was 
set up to address  the private road issue and confirm  who had the right to access  and use 
that road.  The 2015 claim relates to both the allegations made  by Mr and Mrs Ms 
neighbours and also Mr and Mrs Ms concerns over encroachment and boundary issues 
linked to their own property and not the private road.  Therefore, I think  it was unreasonable  
for DAS to have closed  the 2015  claim when Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours  dropped their 
allegations of nuisance as the issues regarding encroachment remained.  Rather  I believe 
that Mr and Mrs M had, and continue to have, two separate claims which  arose at different  
times and concern different  areas  of land,  that entitle them  to two separate indemnity limits.
I believe the above clarifies that the reasons for upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint were 
based on the evidence that was on the file at the time of the initial investigation.  And while I 
reference the second opinion provided by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister  in October 2020, I hadnt 
relied on its contents to reach my decision.  So, I am satisfied that DAS hasnt been 
disadvantaged in how I have considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Therefore, having  reviewed all of the evidence available to me, and with consideration to the 
points raised by both parties in response to the provisional  decision,  I find that DAS were  
wrong to merge the two claims  together and reduce the overall available indemnity from 
£100,000 to £50,000.
However, as mentioned  in the provisional decision when considering what  fair redress 
should be in relation to this complaint its not as simple  as directing DAS to provide Mr and 
Mrs M with access to a £50,000 indemnity limit as some of this will have been used to 
progress the 2015 claim  from the point it began to when it was closed.  And some of those 
costs may have also been transferred  onto the 2013 claim and deducted from its overall 
limit. 
In order to calculate how much of the indemnity limit is still available  to Mr and Mrs M, and 
as per their response to the provisional  decision, DAS should  provide a detailed cost 
breakdown detailing the work completed on the claim  and how it was billed. This should  
clearly set out any costs  relating to the encroachment/trespass issues that have been billed 
against the 2013 claim so this can be off set against the correct indemnity limit and to ensure 
Mr and Mrs M arent accidentally billed twice for the work  done  to date. 
Any remaining  indemnity  can then be used to cover  Mr and Mrs Ms ongoing costs. No doubt 
DAS will need details  of those costs from Mr and Mrs M. Subject to receiving details of 
costings from Mr and Mrs Ms own private solicitors particularising advice given in relation to 
the encroachment/boundary issues, what work  has been completed so far and when, the 
associated costs and whether  or not these costs have been paid by Mr M, DAS can then 
assess these. Where  costs have been paid, Mr M and Mrs M will need to provide DAS with 
evidence of payment.  
Finally, it is extremely  evident from the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs M that how DAS 
has handled their claims  to date has caused  them an enormous amount of additional stress 
and upset in what  was already a very difficult time.  The relationship between Mr and Mrs M 
and their neighbours has continued to deteriorate and at times it has been necessary  to 
Ref: DRN10523957involve the police as there  have been threats  of violence and recrimination. There is no 
doubt that the confusion  over the number of valid claims and how they could be progressed  
has added  to what was already an extremely upsetting time. For that reason DAS should  
also pay Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by how it has 
handled their claim to date. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct  DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited  to:
Reopen the 2015 claim in order to progress Mr and Mrs Ms claim for 
encroachment by their neighbours 
Provide a full cost breakdown detailing the work completed on 2015 from 
when it began to when it was closed
Clarify if any work relating to the encroachment/boundary issue was billed 
against the 2013 claim and provide costings for this work
Subject to receiving  detailed costings from Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors outlining 
work done in relation to the 2015  claim, any work done regarding  the 
encroachment/boundary concerns and all linked costs incurred so far, use 
any remaining indemnity  towards  these  costs. Where Mr M and Mrs M have 
already paid these  costs directly they should  provide evidence of payment.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused  in 
how it handled their claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2021.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1052395