K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with her Barclays Bank  Plc mortgage and linked mortgage current account  
(MCA). 
Mrs Cs now ex-husband,  who Ill refer to as Mr C, withdrew £24,410 from the MCA after a marital  
dispute marker was put on the account which should have prevented  such transactions.  Mrs C is 
unhappy that Barclays hasnt pursued Mr C for the funds,  leaving it showing as a joint debt. 
She also complains that shes  been  unable to transfer the mortgage into her sole name, and 
amend it to being  on a repayment basis (its currently interest-only). The property has already been 
changed with the Land Registry to show as being owned just by Mrs C.
background
In early 2007 both Mrs C and Mr C contacted Barclays to say theyd separated,  and asked that the 
MCA be, in effect,  frozen. In April 2007  Barclays confirmed no further transactions  could be 
undertaken on the MCA unless both parties  signed to agree. Unfortunately Mr C was able to 
withdraw £24,410 in November  2007.
Mrs C complained, to which Barclays responded in February 2008. It said there was a failure in its 
systems and it took the view that Mr C would be solely liable for the £24,140 (plus interest), but 
that in all other respects Mrs C and Mr C remained jointly  and severally liable for the mortgage and 
MCA. It also recommended that Mrs C made her solicitors aware of the situation to enable  them  to 
incorporate this information into any future  divorce  settlement.
In November 2008 Barclays took Mrs C and Mr C to court as there were arrears  on the mortgage. 
A Suspended Possession Order was put in place to repay the £8,440.98 mortgage  arrears at a 
rate of £65 a month.  The mortgage  arrears were unconnected with the amount owed on the MCA.
Things moved on and in August 2010  Mrs C and Mr C agreed a Consent  Order (the Order) in the 
Family Court  as part of their divorce.  In that it was agreed that Mrs C would use her best 
endeavours to secure the release of Mr C from the mortgage, and that Mr C would transfer to 
Mrs C all his legal and beneficial interest in the property. The order  took into account  that Mr C had 
already received £24,410 from the equity in the property.
Since then theres  been various  communications  and issues  which I wont  go into here, but Ive 
read through  everything provided.  This brings  us to the current complaint  which  is as Ive set out 
above.
Barclays has said it has amended Mrs Cs credit  reference file to remove the historical adverse 
markers that related to the MCA, however it said the fact there  is an outstanding debt will remain  
showing on there. It offered £400  compensation for the delay in amending  the credit file, as it said 
that could have been done much sooner than it was. But in respect  of the main  thrust  of the 
complaint  that is the MCA debt  it said that as the debt is secured against  Mrs Cs property 
under a joint mortgage agreement it will still pursue the repayment  of it.
Our adjudicator thought what Barclays had offered to do to resolve  matters  was fair. Mrs C didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN15749782my findings
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position  Mrs C is in. Its clear shes  gone  through  some very 
difficult times, and it cant have been easy  to mentally revisit those times when bringing this 
complaint. Ive not gone into any detail about  that in this decision to protect  Mrs Cs privacy once 
the decision is published. But Id seek to reassure her that Ive read and taken into account 
everything shes said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs C has set out her account in detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed her complaint in the way that I have.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution service  and 
Ive concentrated  on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need to comment  on 
it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I dont act 
under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and resolved, or 
what questions should be asked or answered.
Its not in dispute  that Barclays made  a mistake in November 2007  when  it allowed  Mr C to 
withdraw £24,410 from the MCA. Barclays admitted  its mistake,  said it wouldnt pursue Mrs C for 
repayment of that sum and recommended she resolve it through  her divorce financial settlement. 
But things then changed in 2010  when the divorce financial settlement was agreed in court. Mrs C 
has said that court only referred to the money,  but never considered  the issue  of how it came into 
Mr Cs hands.
If thats the case then that could have been  a grave error on the part of Mrs Cs solicitor as 
Form E (the Financial Statement  for a financial  order under the Matrimonial  Causes Act 1973) 
was the place for full disclosure to be made. Within that form Mrs C should have noted the 
withdrawal Mr C had made and asked for it to be taken into consideration. 
However having considered the Order  I consider  it more likely  which  is the test I must use  that 
Mrs C did raise the matter of the £24,410  withdrawal. The order  says that its in full and final 
satisfaction of all claims which either may bring against the other howsoever arising. So the order 
is that it is final irrespective of how Mr C came about the funds. It goes on to say that Mr C 
acknowledges hes received £24,410  from the equity of the property, that Mr C should  sign the 
property over to Mrs C, and Mrs C should take over sole liability for the mortgage debt.
The Order  was agreed and granted on the basis Mr C had received that £24,410 from the equity, 
irrespective of how (or howsoever) he obtained the funds. Normally a settlement would be 
completed by Mrs C raising the funds to pay Mr C the amount agreed,  but as Mr C already had that 
money no further consideration was made. If the court had decided  that Mr C had to repay that 
amount then this would have been  set out in the Order. Instead it clearly  takes  into account that 
Mr C has had that money, notes Mrs C will be liable  for the mortgage debt and take on sole 
ownership of the property,  and says that the other applications made by Mrs C stand dismissed.
This means  from the point of the Order in 2010  Mrs C was liable for the entire mortgage debt  
including the MCA  regardless of anything Barclays had previously said, as the Order  superseded 
all that had gone before. I cant interfere with a court  order,  and Ive no power to overturn or alter 
what was agreed.  If Mrs C wasnt happy  with the agreement reached, then the time and place to 
deal with that was in 2010 in court.
Ref: DRN15749783Barclays wasnt party to the Order so I cant tell it to change the mortgage into Mrs Cs sole name.  
The Order  says Mrs C must use her best endeavours to remove  Mr C from the mortgage. Barclays  
has said its willing to consider an application  from Mrs C to remortgage  into her sole name, and to 
look at whether changing to a repayment mortgage is the right thing - and affordable  - for her. 
However that application will include the MCA debt,  and will be subject to Barclays  normal  checks. 
Barclays has said it can book an appointment for Mrs C to speak  to a mortgage adviser, and the 
complaints team can stay involved to ensure matters run smoothly.  That seems reasonable.
I understand Barclays has said it has removed the historical adverse markers  that related to the 
MCA from Mrs Cs credit  file but the fact there  is an outstanding debt will remain  showing on there. 
It also offered £400 compensation for the delay in amending the information.  Thats  seems fair. 
Finally, Mrs C has said Barclays has breached the mortgage contract. Whilst I understand  Mrs Cs 
strength of feeling  here I dont agree. The mortgage contract doesnt include any terms implied  by 
Barclays internal policies, quite simply because internal policies are always subject to review and 
change. The mortgage contract is just that, its the mortgage offer Mrs C (and Mr C) accepted  
when they took this mortgage, alongside the current issue of the account terms and conditions. 
Barclays made a mistake in 2008  which it dealt with at the time.  That resolution was superseded in 
2010 by the Order, and theres  nothing  further  Barclays needs to do. Mrs C owes this money to 
Barclays - albeit currently it is a joint debt with Mr C until Mrs C can release him as per the Order - 
and if Barclays now wishes to pursue that debt it can do so. The debt is secured on the property 
and is attracting interest, so Id urge Mrs C to seek advice as soon as possible about the best way 
forward. If it is Mrs Cs position  that Mr C owes  her the £24,410, then shell need to pursue that 
with him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I leave it to Mrs C to decide if now  on reflection  she wants to 
accept the £400 offer made by Barclays Bank Plc. My final decision concludes  this services 
consideration of the complaint, which means  well not be engaging in any further consideration or 
discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mrs C to accept  or reject my decision before 18 February 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1574978