K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is about the handling  of a claim under her home  emergency  insurance
policy underwritten by U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) and provided as part of a packaged
bank account.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2020, part of which  is copied below: 
Mrs D made  a claim under her policy on 10 February 2017, as she was not getting  hot 
water. UKI sent out its contractors on the same  day. The contractor said there was an airlock 
in the central heating  system. The contractor sucked  out the air from the pipes and while  
doing so, a pipe located in the bathroom  cupboard started leaking. The pipe was apparently 
not capped off. A large volume of water poured through  the ceiling to the kitchen below, 
causing substantial  damage.
Mrs D is very unhappy with this. She says she had to spend all that night trying  to salvage
the contents of the kitchen cupboards and preventing further damage to her cupboards  and
flooring. Mrs D also says she tried to get the contractor to come back out to check  that the
electrics were safe and to deal with the matter but it didnt respond.  Mrs D says she was
passed between  UKI and the contractors and neither wanted  to take responsibility for her
complaint. Mrs Ds hot water was still not working  properly  and I understand she also had no
cold water  upstairs in the property for some time.
Mrs D had to make  a claim under her home insurance policy  for the ceiling to be repaired
and kitchen appliances to be replaced.  I understand the value of the home insurance claim
was around £3,500.
UKI says its contractor would not have known there was an open  ended pipe. However, it
does accept that the service provided to Mrs D was not what she was entitled  to expect. UKI
offered to reimburse  the £250 home  insurance excess she paid and pay £150  compensation
for the trouble caused (so a total of £400).
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be
upheld, as he thought this offer was reasonable. The investigator said he could not be sure
the damage was caused by the engineer  doing  anything wrong and so could not hold UKI
responsible for the resultant damage and inconvenience.
Mrs D doesnt consider that the investigator  has understood the case properly. She has
made a number of points  which Ive summarised below:
the contractor took photos of the pipes in the airing cupboard before starting the work
and so would have seen the uncapped  pipe.  The pipe is in front of four other pipes
and so completely  visible  when looking into the airing cupboard .
After the contractor left in a flustered state, he didnt turn the mains water back on.
She had to have  dehumidifiers  operating for three weeks; could not use the electric
oven for a week (but could use the gas hob);  could not use the kitchen cabinets while
they were drying  out; and had to throw away considerable amount  of food.
She and her family  were unable to use washing  facilities  for some  time.
Her home insurance premium increased  by £400  as a result of the claim.
She was worried about the electrics but it refused to send anyone out to check  them.
Ref: DRN18698812As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this would have been an ordeal  for Mrs D. There  was a relatively easy fix
required to her central heating system and it resulted in a substantial home insurance claim
and significant  inconvenience.
There is some dispute about  responsibility  for the leak. UKI says the engineer could not
have known the pipe was not capped off, as it should have been. It has also suggested that
it was capped off but the cap popped off when its contractor started to work, otherwise it
would have leaked before  this. Either way, UKI says the contractor could  not have known
what would  have happened.
It is impossible  for me to be certain whether the pipe was capped or not. However, I would
expect that any plumber would know that the work he was doing could cause any uncapped
or poorly  capped pipes  to leak; and it would seem  to me that it would be reasonable to
expect any contractor to check any accessible pipe endings. The contractor  did apparently
look in the cupboard according to Mrs D before starting work to remove  the airlock. She also
says the leaking  pipe was at the front, so was easily seen and accessible. I have no reason
to doubt what  Mrs D has said about that.
Mrs D says the contractor turned off the main  water supply to stop the leak and then left her
house in a flustered state, leaving the water turned off and didnt help her.
The engineer didnt record any of what happened  on his job sheet. The engineers notes of
the visit record that he was at the property for around 35 minutes  and says:
Air lock in a hot water pipe has been  sorted  out. Hot water  running good on the property.
There is no mention of the water leak, him turning  off the mains  supply or any checks  he did
to ensure there would  be no leaks when removing the airlock. It also appears that the
contractor didnt report the leak to UKI, as Mrs D had to call it to tell it what  had happened.
Even if the contractor was not at fault at all in causing the leak,  I would have expected  some
assistance when  this happened. However, the fact the contractor  didnt record  what
happened adds  weight to Mrs Ds submission that the contractor rushed off and didnt want
to help. It also casts some  doubt  on UKIs  submission that the contractor was not at fault and
could not have prevented the leak. Mrs Ds hot and cold water supply was also not working
properly for some time after this, although  it is not clear when this was finally resolved.
Overall, having considered everything  I consider there is enough evidence to conclude the
leak would  not have happened, had the contractor checked the pipes properly before
starting work  and I think this would have been  a reasonable expectation.
I therefore need to consider what award is appropriate to compensate Mrs D for this.
UKI has reimbursed the home insurance premium, which is reasonable.
Mrs Ds home insurance renewed in March 2018. The premium  for 2017-2018 was £830.19
Ref: DRN18698813(£905.28 paying  by monthly direct debit) and she was then quoted  £1,224.18 (£1,335.00 if
paying by monthly  direct  debit) for the year 2018  2019.  It is not proven that this increase
was solely  due to the claim (insurance premiums do tend to go up each year) but I accept it
would have been a factor.
Mrs D did renew  at this price and paid direct debits for around five months  (so for those five
months she paid around £160 more than the previous year). Mrs D then cancelled the policy
and took cover with another insurer at a cheaper  premium. The level of cover appears  to be
the same. Her new policy started on 20 August  2018  at £364.56 for the year so
considerably cheaper than the other policy, even before the claim.  Mrs D says she did not
want to leave her previous insurer but had no choice given the increase in premium.
So it is clear that Mrs D s policy with her previous insurer did increase and I note that she
did not want to leave her previous insurer. Overall for the year she ended up paying
considerably less for her home insurance  but for the first five months did pay around £160
more in total.
In my opinion, a global compensation award  to reflect this additional expense and the trouble
caused to Mrs D is more  appropriate.  I do not consider the £150  offered by UKI to be
enough. Having  considered everything  that this entailed for Mrs D, including: chasing  the
claim and getting her hot and cold water working  properly;  chasing the complaint; having to
deal with the water leak; cleaning  her kitchen; making the home insurance claim; the
upheaval and inconvenience of having  humidifiers for some time and the repairs  works,  I
consider that the total sum of £650 is more appropriate. This is to include the £150 UKI
already offered but is in addition to the reimbursement of the home insurance excess. If UKI
has already paid the £150 it previously offered and the home insurance excess it can deduct
these from the total owing. This is in line with awards made in similar cases.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D:
£250 as reimbursement of her home insurance  excess; and
£650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its handling
of her claim.
(If UKI has already made any compensation payments to Mrs D these are to be deducted
from this amount and only the remainder needs  to be paid.)
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
UKI does  not accept  my provisional  decision. It has made the following points: 
The engineer  completed work at the property at 21.32, having restored the hot water.  
Mrs D called at 22.12 to complain about  the way the repair was carried  out and to 
report the leak. It was noted  it was no longer  leaking at the time she called. 
The engineer  who had attended  confirmed  that there was a pipe in to the bathroom 
that had no cap on the end and water came out and soaked through the walls.  When 
he went into the loft, one of the valves connected to an open pipe and when opened 
Ref: DRN18698814it released water. The valve had been shut quickly  but water had escaped. The 
engineer was in the loft and the open  pipe was in the airing  cupboard, so he couldnt 
see it leaking and could  not have known about it.  
A second team was arranged  to attend,  following her call, as Mrs D had no hot water  
upstairs at this point.  The second team identified that the pipe was at fault and a new 
pump was required. 
It offered  as an act of goodwill,  to pay the excess but Mrs D refused and despite 
leaving a number  of messages to resolve the matter, there was gap of June to 
October before Mrs D asked what was happening on the complaint. 
It has paid the £400  offered, which is reasonable given the delays  to resolve this 
complaint by Mrs D and the fact that the engineer was unable to predict an open  
pipe. The cap may have blown off when  the valves were  opened to clear the airlock 
but the main point  is if the engineer was in the loft he could not viewed the open pipe 
until after the pipe had leaked.
Mrs D has also responded  and confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has reiterated that its engineer could  not have known that the pipe in the bathroom 
cupboard would leak. It also says that the leak occurred because he opened  a valve  which 
was connected  to the pipe which leaked. 
I remain of the opinion that it would  be reasonable to expect  a contractor to check accessible 
pipe endings  before  doing any work  which might  cause such  a leak, including not opening  a 
valve to a pipe without having  checked  the pipe.  This would seem  to me to be a reasonable 
precaution to take. The contractor may have  physically been in the loft at the time the leak 
started (and therefore  not seen it start) but this doesnt mean  it could not have been 
prevented or was not foreseeable. And again there is no explanation as to why none  of this 
was recorded  on his job sheet, or reported  to UKI by the engineer, until Mrs D had 
complained. In addition, the problem with the hot water was still not resolved. 
I am not persuaded to change my provisional  findings. UKI has not provided  any new 
information which would be enough to change the outcome of the complaint. It has also 
sought to blame  Mrs D for a delay in resolving  her complaint, which I do not think this is 
reasonable. 
Having considered all the evidence again, I remain of the opinion that a global compensation 
award of £650  (to include the £150  compensation already offered and in addition to the 
reimbursement of the home insurance policy excess) is appropriate to reflect the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to Mrs D by the handling  of this matter. 
Ref: DRN18698815my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D:
£250 as reimbursement of her home insurance  excess; and
£650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its handling
of her claim.
(UKI has said it has already paid £400 to Mrs D, in which case only the remainder needs  to 
be paid.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1869881