K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the increases to her Barclaycard credit limit by 
Barclays Bank UK Plc which she says were unaffordable.
background
Miss S first took out her credit card in 2006. It had an initial limit of £260. She also had her 
main current  account with Barclays into which her net salary, which varied between around 
£800 and £1,000 a month, was paid.
The limits on her card increased as follows:
November 2006    £400
August 2007   £800
April 2008   £1,600
November 2008    £3,200
June 2009   £5,100
March 2010   £6,100
September 2010  £5,850
November 2010    £8,250
June 2012 £10,650
January 2013    £11,650
September 2013   £12,000
Miss S generally kept her card balance within its credit limit, save on one occasion in 
October 2007, when  immediately  after being  advised, she brought  it back down. Miss S was 
also late in paying  her minimum balance on a few occasions over the years. But each time 
she remedied this shortly  afterwards.
During the majority of the time she had the card, Miss S would  pay a round sum just above 
the minimum balance.  On occasion she would  make some  larger  payments, one of which  
was a payment  of £5,000  in October 2010, which I understand to have been a loan from her 
mother to help with her finances.  This was credited to her account just after Barclays  had 
reduced her credit  limit, in September 2010, reflecting a late payment shed made.  Her 
balance at the time was just over £5,000. And this payment bought  her card balance down to 
about £400. Miss S has told us that she could only afford to make the minimum payments on 
her card with family support.
Miss S bought  her complaint to Barclays in 2016  through a consumer advice body. She was 
concerned that Barclays had lent to her irresponsibly given her salary  was only ever 
between £12,000  and £15,000 a year - at the end she had a credit limit of £12,000,  pretty 
much the same as her annual income. What Miss S wanted from her complaint was to be 
able to agree a reasonable  repayment plan. Given the level of interest, she was only just 
meeting the minimum  payment on her card and making little impact on the principal.
Barclays didnt uphold  Miss S complaint, save for offering to pay her £100 for the delay in 
responding to a letter and for the poor way shed been treated on a phone  call. 
Ref: DRN19755082Barclays says that it carried out credit  checks for each of the increases and that given  her 
account conduct and the information available, it had no concerns about  Miss S ability  to 
afford the new limits. 
Barclays says that it sent out letters to Miss S before each increase, giving her 30 days  
notice of the change and giving her the ability  to opt out. Miss S says that she didnt receive 
all of these and Barclays no longer has any records to show  that the letters were sent. It has 
however provided  us with a template of what it would have sent Miss S. And it is also noted 
on her statements that the limit had been  increased  and that she could contact  Barclays  if 
she wanted to discuss this.
Our investigator didnt  think that Miss S complaint should be upheld.  Miss S didnt agree, so 
the matter has come  to me for a decision.  Im sorry for the length of time that it has taken for 
us to consider  Miss S complaint. Weve been  looking  into unaffordable lending  more 
generally in recent times. And Miss S complaint  has been delayed by our review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss S concern that giving her a credit limit equal to her annual salary 
appears, on the face of it, to be irresponsible lending.  However,  Im afraid that I agree  with 
the investigator that this isnt a complaint that I can uphold.  Ill explain why.
Like the investigator, Ive been  through all of Miss S credit  card and bank account 
statements. And theres nothing in those that would have  indicated to Barclays,  at the time of 
each individual  increase, that this wasnt a level of debt that Miss S would be able to service.
A customers obligation is to pay the minimum balance  on their card each month.  And that 
was something that, for the most  part, Miss S did, often paying  a round figure of £100 or 
£200 (just in excess  of the minimum payment required). When  the balance had gone over 
£5,000 in September 2010,  and Miss S missed a payment,  Barclays brought her limit down. 
Miss S then obtained  a loan from her mother  to repay the majority of the balance. 
Barclays couldnt have  known, from the information  available to it, that this money was a 
loan that Miss S would continue to repay to her mum  from her salary. Her bank  account  with 
Barclays was always in credit. And even though Miss S did spend the majority of her income 
each month, she never appears to have gone  into her overdraft, having  preferred it seems to 
use her credit card for any additional spending - like going out, clothes, holidays, etc.
Once the card balance  was paid off, Barclays began to allow automatic increases to her 
credit limit again. These  took the limit up significantly over the next three  years, culminating 
in her having a limit of £12,000  from September 2013.
After the limit was increased, Miss S didnt go on to max out her card. She continued to pay 
just in excess of the minimum  balance each month,  although I note that she also continued 
to spend on the card,  increasing  the amount she owed and never  bringing  it back down. It 
was only in 2016, when Miss S appears  to have started taking  advice about  her finances, 
that she started to reduce the £10,000 odd balance  on her account. But this was only by 
small amounts, given the level of interest  she was paying.
Ref: DRN19755083Weve asked Barclays to provide  us with the letters  that it should have sent to Miss S giving 
her notice of the credit  limit increases and copies of any credit  checks  that it carried out. But 
given the time elapsed,  it hasnt been  able to provide copies of those. Barclays told Miss S 
that in September 2010, when it reduced her credit limit, it was doing so as a result of her 
account conduct and a recent credit check.  Miss S is concerned  that Barclays  is not now 
able to provide  a copy of that or any of the other  checks. I am too.
When looking at a complaint like this, I will generally look to see what  information should 
have been available to a lender that may have  indicated  that a credit increase was either  not 
affordable or that the customer was in financial difficulty - so making any additional lending  
potentially irresponsible.  
Its unfortunate that Barclays has been unable to provide us with the pre-credit limit increase 
letters that it sent to Miss S. Miss S says she only received three letters  over the years, 
although Barclays says that it sent one on each occasion. But the statements sent to Miss S 
did record the increases  and give her the option  to get in touch with Barclays to discuss  the 
change. Miss S didnt and then went on to use the additional credit on offer.  She didnt 
immediately run the balance up to the new limit and she also continued making the minimum 
repayments. So this wouldnt have rung any alarm bells with Barclays  indicating that she 
may have  been  in financial difficulty.  Indeed Barclays systems did pick up a potential 
problem in 2010, when it reduced  her credit limit. So it seems that it was monitoring her 
spending and account conduct over the period she had the card.
So in Miss S case, there  was nothing in the information available to Barclays  that I think  
would have highlighted a problem. Barclays has said that it did conduct credit checks  and I 
have no reason to disbelieve  this, as these checks are, I understand, normally done  
automatically when  an increase  is contemplated. I would,  however, say that it is important 
that Barclays do keep  a record of these checks as it is something that we will normally  
expect to see when  considering a complaint of this type.
Miss S never told Barclays  that she was having  any financial difficulty and on the one 
occasion that Barclayss systems picked up that Miss S may be in trouble, she went  on to 
pay off the balance through a loan from her mum. If Barclays  had been  told of the problems 
at the time and the arrangements for repaying that loan,  then I may have  thought that further 
increases should  have  been subject to much  greater scrutiny. But Barclays didnt  know this 
and it wouldnt have  shown up on any credit report either, given it wasnt  a regulated  
commercial loan.
When Miss S contacted  Barclays  in early 2016,  it was clear that she was then finding it 
difficult to meet her financial obligations.  Whilst I can only consider in this complaint  the 
increases over the preceding years, I would  expect Barclays  to have taken into account  
Miss S financial circumstances in 2016  in deciding how they could help her going forward. 
The outcome that Miss S has requested for this complaint is for Barclays  to offer her a 
reasonable repayment plan. I understand that Miss S has been  slowly paying off her card 
balance during the subsequent years. But she is of course still free to approach Barclays 
again if she encounters any further  financial difficulty in meeting these payments.
So in summary,  whilst Barclays has been  unable to provide  me with copies of the opt-out 
letters that it sent, Miss S has gone on to use the increased limits and didnt take up the 
option included  on her statements to contact Barclays  to discuss them. So I consider that, 
through her actions,  she accepted the increases.
Ref: DRN19755084Taking into account all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think  that Barclays  have 
acted unreasonably toward  Miss S in making credit  available  to her. Miss S has spent a 
considerable sum on the card, subsequently finding  herself in financial  difficulty.  But I 
havent found any evidence that should  have been  apparent to Barclays back  in 2013, when 
the last increase was authorised, that would have  alerted it that Miss S would then go on to 
spend sums that she couldnt afford to repay.
I note that Barclays has offered to pay Miss S £100 for some service  failings and the upset 
she was clearly caused on a phone call when she first made this complaint. If it has not 
already, it should  now make that payment to her.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint  and I dont require that 
Barclays Bank UK Plc needs to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1975508