K822xcomplaint
Miss B is unhappy with the increases on her home insurance policy  premiums,  held with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
The policy was sold by Bank A. The policy was underwritten by two insurers,  but Aviva,  as 
the principle underwriter, is responsible  for answering Miss Bs concerns about the increases 
in her premiums.
background 
Miss B took out a home insurance underwritten  by Aviva when she took out a mortgage with 
Bank A in 1998.
Miss Bs home insurance was called  Homecover Plus and provided  buildings and contents 
insurance including cover for accidental damage.
The Homecover Plus policy was a block policy and was index-linked. 
A block policy is where an underwriter creates an insurance policy  for a group of 
consumers. In this case  Aviva created a home insurance policy  for Bank  A to offer its 
consumers taking out mortgages. The policy covered the same things for all consumers, for 
example accidental damage  to contents,  and the cover couldnt  be amended or changed by 
consumers.
In this case, a home insurance policy that is index linked, meant the amount it covered went  
up and down over time alongside an index that tracked the change  in the cost of rebuilding 
houses.
The earliest known  premium available shows Miss Bs policy cost around  £250 for the year 
(excluding Insurance Premium Tax  IPT) in 2001.
Miss B paid for the policy on a monthly basis, but it automatically renewed  each year.  
Miss B didnt speak  with Bank A or Aviva about the cost of the insurance at renewal  and it 
just renewed automatically. The policys cost increased over the years.  In 2017,  Miss Bs 
annual premium was slightly  over £600  (excluding  IPT).
Miss B discovered she could obtain an alternative  home insurance  policy  for considerably 
cheaper. Because of the difference in price  between the two policies, Miss B complained  to 
Bank A. She considered  she had been treated unfairly and had been  overcharged  for 19 
years.
Bank A says it didnt  receive Miss Bs complaint. 
Unhappy she didnt  receive a response; Miss B referred the complaint to our service.
The Homecover Plus home insurance  policy  was withdrawn from the market   so Miss Bs 
policy didnt renew  in 2018.
While the complaint was with our service, the complaint was passed to Aviva  and it offered 
to refund some of the cost of the policy. 
Ref: DRN18521262It explained that as Miss Bs policy was index-linked, the sum insured was adjusted each 
year to cover the cost of rebuilding the property.  The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which Aviva then used to gauge  
what the likely cost to rebuild the property would be and in turn set the price. 
Aviva, having reviewed  the premiums over the years,  explained there were times when 
Miss Bs premium  increased above the index-linked rate. So its offer was to work  out what  
the premium would have been if it had increased alongside the index and refund the 
difference to Miss B whenever this happened. 
In total it worked  out that it had charged  Miss B an extra  £127.50 over the years   so it 
offered to give that back. And it offered an additional  £57.79 to compensate Miss B for being  
out of pocket (set at 8% simple interest per year until payment is made). This totals £185.29.
Aviva also offered an additional £100  as compensation for the trouble Miss B had been 
caused. So Avivas  total offer to Miss B came  to £285.29.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas offer was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Miss B disagreed. Given the price  she obtained  for a new policy  she still considered  she had 
been overcharged for many years and wants Aviva  to pay her the difference.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Miss B fairly throughout the time she held her 
insurance policy.
And here, as Aviva has made  an offer, I need  to consider whether that is enough to put right 
what might  have gone wrong.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Miss B, so Id like to explain  why.
The earliest known  premium for Miss Bs policy was around £250 (excluding IPT) in 2001.  
By 2017 the insurance was to cost around  £600 (excluding IPT) for the year.  As Miss Bs 
policy did increase  in cost over the years  Ive looked to see what happened.
Miss Bs policy automatically renewed each year. With automatic  renewals there is a chance  
that if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.  
Ref: DRN18521263An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
Miss B didnt engage over the years,  but Aviva says the cost increased due to the type of 
policy Miss B held and not because she wasnt engaging with the renewals each year.
Miss Bs policy was a block policy. This meant Aviva  grouped  together a number of policy 
holders (in this case those who took out insurance  through Bank  A) and created an 
insurance policy that it provided  to these customers.  
As the policy was created in a block it provided  all the consumers the same level of cover. 
The consumer, if they wanted to take out insurance,  had two options. They could  take 
buildings and contents insurance that also included accidental damage cover - amongst 
other things.  Or they could take buildings insurance  with accidental damage cover  (so no 
contents cover). The policy  Miss B took out was for buildings and contents insurance  that 
also included accidental  damage cover - the Homecover Plus  policy.  
With either of the policies  on offer,  they couldnt be amended. So, for example, the 
accidental damage  cover couldnt be removed,  or the limits  and excesses couldnt be 
changed by consumers. Providing cover this way meant that Aviva didnt have to manually 
underwrite each individual policy  instead,  the policyholders properties were  automatically  
rated using  a buildings sum insured rate and location. The buildings  sum insured rate was 
index-linked.
Home insurance that is index-linked means  that the sums insured and some  of the policy  
limits are adjusted each year to make sure they remain sufficient to cover  the possible costs  
of a claim  such as the full cost of rebuilding a consumers property. 
There are various factors taken into account with the cost of rebuilding  a property,  such as 
the increasing cost of building materials, or cost of labour. The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors (RICS) calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which  Aviva  used to gauge 
what a consumers property is likely  to cost to be rebuilt. In essence  the sums  insured are 
linked to that index  giving the term index-linked.
 
So this means  the renewal cost of an index-linked policy can also be increased to pay for the 
increased level of cover.  If it is deemed that the sum insured needs to go up to reflect  the 
amount it will cost for a property to be rebuilt  then it follows  that the premium  will go up. 
The premium is unlikely  to ever stay static.  
With Miss Bs policy, this is what happened. It increased in most years as the sums insured 
increased each  year.  Aviva says the increases applied  were in line with the RICSs House 
Rebuilding Cost Index.  
But Aviva says there were  times when the premium increased above the index-linked  rate 
and because of this it offered to refund the overpayments in any years where this happened.  
Given the type of policy  Miss B had, this seems fair.
Ref: DRN18521264I appreciate that Miss B obtained alternative  insurance for a lot less. Given  the difference  in 
cost I can see why Miss B is unhappy.  But insurance practices have moved on over the 
years. 
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers  aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount  over the following years.  Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover   so buildings and contents with or without accidental 
damage, and consumers  can also choose  what limits and excesses they wish to have. But 
the policy she took out with Bank  A was very comprehensive and had a comparatively high 
level of cover.
These things combined, mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly  different  in price. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based  on that perceived risk.
So while Miss B has obtained  a policy  for far less now, for the reasons  explained  above,  I 
dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent policy with the policy  taken and 
held for many years with Aviva.
I also am mindful that Aviva had to treat Miss B fairly  in respect of the policy  she held. And 
Miss B has said she doesnt think she was treated  fairly  over the years.
Aviva, throughout the duration Miss B held their policy, wasnt  obligated to either 
automatically switch Miss B to another policy or tell her about any alternative products it 
offered. 
There were new rules  introduced by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority,  in 2017 
that said that insurers should, in the renewal invitation, encourage their customers  to shop 
around if theyve had their policy for a number of years. 
I appreciate that Miss B feels very strongly  that she wasnt  treated  fairly. And I do 
understand why she feels  this way. Businesses  treating  their customers  fairly is an 
overarching principle that they must have in mind in all dealing with consumers. 
But in this case, I think Aviva has treated Miss B fairly. It has treated her the same  as any 
other policyholder with the same policy. And in its role as an insurer,  I dont think  it would be 
fair to say Aviva should need to make sure someone (or all of its policyholders) has the 
cheapest policy available.  
Put simply, Miss B took out Avivas policy. It didnt have to make  sure Miss B got the best  
deal year on year. Aviva  needed  to make  sure it treated  her fairly in respect of the policy she 
held and not increase the costs unfairly.  
Ref: DRN18521265From what  Ive seen the increases in Miss Bs premiums were in accordance  with the type of 
policy she had  an index-linked policy that also had set, comprehensive cover  in place. 
There were risk related  reasons for the increases  and the increases  werent  simply because  
Miss B wasnt engaging  with her renewal.
And where  there were increases beyond the index-linked increase, Aviva  has offered to 
refund those overpayments  which  seems  fair.
I note Miss B has concerns that when she realised the cost of the policy  and complained  
her policy was cancelled.  Ms B thinks it confirms she was overcharged. I can see why 
Miss B might  think the two things are linked, but Id like to assure  her, they arent.  
An insurer  will often  revisit the policy books it holds, and its the insurers  own commercial 
decision as to whether  it wishes  to continue to provide that insurance  policy  or not. Here the 
decision was made by Aviva to no longer  offer this type of policy. This wasnt  just to Miss B, 
but to all the consumers that held the policy.  As I explained earlier   insurance practices 
have moved on  so there could be a number  of reasons why Aviva no longer wished to 
maintain this type of home  insurance.  It had been  ongoing for a number of years. But, 
importantly, where an insurer wishes to withdraw  the insurance, it needs to ensure that it 
informs its customers and provide them with enough  time to seek alternative insurance. 
Having read the letter  Miss B has provided   I can see it says the policy is no longer 
available and it was also issued prior to Miss Bs March renewal date - giving  her enough 
time to seek  alternative arrangements. 
Miss B was also concerned that her sum insured  amount was too low. Miss B says that she 
had an extension done in 2000  and informed the relevant parties at that time. I do 
understand that it would  be concerning to discover you might  have been under-insured  but 
ultimately, I dont think it makes a difference  to the outcome  of this complaint. I say this 
because Miss B didnt  claim  throughout  that time, so Miss B hasnt lost out. Had Miss B 
needed to have claimed, with Aviva not paying  out beyond  the sum insured value, then that 
would be a different  matter. But in this case, it isnt, being possibly under-insured hasnt 
resulted in a loss to Miss B. And its likely  that, if Miss B needed to increase the level of 
cover, that would have also increased the cost. Instead Miss B has paid premiums in line 
with the sum assured from 1998  that was index-linked, which is likely to have been  less. 
Also the policy  has now ended  and Miss B has taken new insurance to the sum insured 
value she requires.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Miss Bs home insurance policy is fair.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited, should Miss B accept the decision, to update the 
compensation amount to reflect the additional  time Miss B has been out of pocket.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to 
Miss B is also fair. 
Ref: DRN18521266Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1852126