K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited (Royal London) 
caused delays  and insisted on a scripted  phone call before he could transfer  his pension.
background
In March 2019, following a move abroad, Mr L started making plans  to transfer his pension 
with Royal  London  to a Qualified  Recognised  Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). Mr L 
made Royal London aware  of the move  and requested information about his policy.
In April there was further correspondence and Royal London explained to Mr L what hed 
need to do to be able to transfer his plan to a QROPS but it didnt mention the need for the 
scripted call. Mr L asked for information  at the start of May but Royal  London said he needed 
to send it some identifying documentation  that it required. Mr L sent this information  shortly 
after.
In late May Mr L asked again that Royal London  send him the required documentation to his 
new address. And he sent a chaser  email approximately two weeks later.
In August  Mr L sends  another email  chasing  for this information and asking for an update.  
Royal London responded and apologised that the information hadnt been received and 
asked for confirmation  of address and where  the information could be sent to. The 
information was then resent by email.
In October  the QROPS  scheme sent over the required information for the transfer to take 
place. It was then that Royal London explained to Mr L that hed need to have  a phone 
conversation with it about the transfer,  it explained  a script would be read and this was a 
requirement.
Mr L asked that the script be emailed to him, he explained he wasnt  a financial expert and 
wanted the chance to question things before agreeing. However,  Royal London said that it 
was a requirement of its process to read the script out in a call before the transfer could go 
ahead.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and liaised with both parties. She concluded that 
Royal London couldve responded  quicker to Mr L. But ultimately any delay it did cause  
wouldnt have made a difference as the QROPS information wasnt received until October in 
any event and the deadlock over the telephone call wouldve occurred anyway.
In terms of the telephone call the investigator  didnt think that Royal  London had done 
anything wrong. She explained that Royal London  had said the phone call was a 
requirement as part of its compliance process.  This was to make  sure it was meeting its 
obligations to customers and to comply with the Financial Conduct  Authoritys rules.  The call 
would be a script setting  out the tax implications and risks and implications of transferring 
abroad. And that after the call, it would be sent in writing and Mr L would have chance to 
read it.
The investigator said that especially in light of the increasing problems of online fraud  and 
scams, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Royal London  to have additional security 
processes in place  such as a telephone  call.
Ref: DRN12209092Mr L responded to say he didnt agree. He said that had Royal  London provided a 
reasonable explanation  for the call before,  he wouldve taken the call many months ago. He 
said Royal London didnt  make an effort to give a reasonable  explanation,  other than it was 
its policy. Mr L also still believed Royal London had caused delays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering both parties submissions, I understand both points of view but what I have 
to decide is whether Royal  London did anything wrong or made an error.
Due to the time difference it made  sense where  possible to communicate via email or post 
but I do think had both parties had a telephone conversation about the issue  a compromise 
couldve been reached.
Following our involvement Mr L has said that had the reason for the call been explained 
clearly he wouldve agreed many months ago. Mr L asked that instead of a call, the script be 
sent by email via a secure server. Which  on the face of it isnt an unreasonable  request and I 
understand his reasons for wanting to do this.
But at the same time, Royal  London  is entitled  to have in place compliance procedures  for its 
security and the security  of its customers.  And I dont think  it was unreasonable  for it to insist 
on there being a call to satisfy its compliance procedure. It did take into account Mr Ls 
particular requirements  in terms of offering to make  a call at a convenient time for him. The 
fact Mr L didnt want to have a phone conversation wasnt down to the difficulty  of having 
that call, it was about the information  in the call itself.
I can see that the person at Royal London who was Mr Ls point of contact did enquire with 
his colleagues  to see if an exception could be made. But he was told that it couldnt and the 
call was a requirement.  I know that Mr L has said if a better  explanation  had been  given, he 
wouldve taken the call months ago. But in its responses, Royal  London focussed on 
whether the call had to take place rather than explaining why. I dont think this focus was 
unreasonable. Whether or not a better explanation  wouldve  solved the issue,  Mr L had 
made it clear  he didnt want to carry out the call, so I can see why Royal  London didnt 
explain its reasoning  in lots of detail.
Ultimately, I think  that Royal London is entitled to have procedures  in place and I dont think 
the fact a call had to take place was an unfair requirement. And so I wont  be holding  Royal  
London responsible for delaying matters for Mr L.
In terms of Royal Londons customer service and causing delays aside from the telephone 
call issue, I think  Royal London couldve done better here. Mr L had to chase it a number of 
times for information  and it didnt reply to his chasers. Simply replying to these  emails  
wouldve put Mr Ls mind  at rest and also sorted  out the issue. I say this because  Royal  
London says it had actually sent the information  but it obviously wasnt  received by Mr L. 
Had it replied to say the information had already been sent, Mr L wouldve known that there  
was a problem  with receiving it and the issue wouldve been sorted out much quicker.
Whilst Royal London couldve  provided  a better service here, I dont think  this had any real 
impact on Mr L, other than he had to send chaser emails that he wouldnt otherwise have 
Ref: DRN12209093had to send. I say this because  the transfer  couldnt take place until the QROPS scheme 
had carried out its part in the transfer  and contacted Royal London.   And secondly the issue 
with the call requirement has been  the major reason for delay, and I dont think Royal  
London is responsible for this.
So in conclusion, I dont  think  Royal  London is responsible for the delay  in Mr Ls pension 
transfer. Whilst it couldve provided better customer service  in responding to chasers via 
email and confirming  receipt and response, I think the major  delay  in the process  has been 
the stand-off  around the telephone call which I dont think Royal London  is at fault for.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold the Mr Ls complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1220909