K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Mr S cant access  the online portal provided by EUI 
Limited to view their motor and travel  policies.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a total of five policies covering cars, vans and travel.  Mr S has managed 
all these online with EUI. In May 2018,  he couldnt access the online  portal  effectively. EUIs 
adviser reported the matter to IT department.  And despite removing him and re-registering 
him, the portal  only partially works for Mr S.
So he raised a complaint  and EUI apologised  for its errors and its delay in responding to 
him. It paid £30 compensation for its delays and a further £30 compensation for the portal  
issues. 
But Mr S remained unhappy, as the portal issues werent resolved so he brought his 
complaint to us. At the same time in July 2018, he told EUI about  the continuing problems. 
EUI responded sending Mr S the policy he needed at that time. It confirmed its IT 
department had encountered a significant  issue with the online portal, which  it was working 
on but it would take some time to resolve.  It also paid him a further £40 compensation. It 
said if he needed any further policy documents or had any further  queries Mr S should  
contact EUI. 
In the meantime the adjudicator made enquiries  with EUI as to how long it would take to 
resolve this IT issue.  EUI didnt have an update other than its IT department  were  working on 
it. So other than clarifying this, the adjudicator was of the view EUI was doing all it could. 
Mr S remained unhappy  so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I fully understand  and appreciate how frustrating  it has been for Mr S to be unable to access 
his policies as and when he wished through the online portal. However other  than ensuring 
that EUI was aware of this and was working  on it, I have no powers  to make it to do anything 
further. My remit and that of this service  is to investigate what went wrong and to ensure the 
business, EUI here, is trying to put things right. 
Its clear EUI has a significant  IT problem which its struggling to resolve. It has said if Mr S 
contacts it, it will send out or otherwise provide any information he requires. So whilst  this 
wouldnt be on its online portal,  Mr S would at least be able to have all the information he 
might require on his policies if he contacts EUI to send the information to him. Its not the 
ideal solution  but nevertheless Mr S would  then be able to manage his policies, as he needs  
to. I think  thats satisfactory.
EUI has also apologised and paid Mr S a total of £100 compensation for his trouble and 
inconvenience. I also understand that Mr S has said hes not interested  in compensatory 
awards  he simply wants the online portal to work properly. But I do consider its reasonable 
Ref: DRN19236832EUI did pay him this compensation given his trouble and inconvenience, which I also think  is 
adequate.
I have no power to require  EUI to fix its online portal system, my power  lies in ensuring EUI 
provides Mr S with the documents and information  he might require, which EUI has done 
and will continue to do for so long as Mr S keeps his insurance with it.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1923683