K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  did not act on information he 
gave it in 2004. In particular  Mr R told Halifax that his mortgage broker had overstated his 
income and that the mortgage  payments might  not be affordable for him. 
background
Mr R took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2003.  The mortgage was arranged  by Mr Rs 
mortgage broker.
At the time mortgage  advice  was not regulated. The mortgage application would  have been  
assessed in line with a voluntary scheme  called The Mortgage Code. This Code required the 
business arranging  the mortgage,  in this case Mr Rs mortgage broker,  to either  provide  
information or advice  on the mortgage to the borrower.
In early 2004 Mr R contacted Halifax. He said he had become aware that the information  
provided about his income was wrong.  Mr R said his broker  had overstated his income in the 
mortgage application. Mr R asked Halifax for advice  on whether a better option was 
available. He also asked  it to confirm that his mortgage would continue.
Halifax confirmed that the mortgage would continue and advised  Mr R to contact  his 
mortgage broker.
In 2018 Mr R complained  to Halifax  about his mortgage. It didnt uphold his complaint. Mr R 
wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs  response  and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that some of the issues Mr R had raised had been brought  too 
late for this service to be able to consider them. He also noted that Mr R had not given 
Halifax the opportunity  to respond on some of the other issues raised.  But he said he was 
able to consider  Mr Rs complaint that Halifax had not helped him in 2004 when he told it 
that the income information his mortgage broker had supplied  was wrong.
Mr R had applied for a self-certified mortgage.  Our investigator explained that self-certified  
mortgages were permitted at that time.  
Mr R said he felt Halifax should take responsibility for the incorrect information  supplied by 
his mortgage broker. But our investigator  said that Halifax had not assessed the suitability or 
verified the affordability of the mortgage Mr R took out, as Mr R had self-certified his income. 
Our investigator said that as the mortgage was self certified  Halifax had relied on the 
information provided in the mortgage application  to assess  whether it was willing to offer 
Mr R the mortgage  he had requested.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with our investigators view and asked for his complaint  to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16524942I am sympathetic to Mr Rs position.  I have carefully considered everything he has said in 
relation to this aspect  of his complaint. I appreciate that he feels Halifax should  have taken  
responsibility for the affordability of his mortgage  once he told it that the income  information  
in his mortgage application was incorrect.
But I must also take into account  that Mr R accepted the mortgage  offer.  Even if Halifax  had 
agreed to lend based in incorrect information about Mr Rs income, Mr R knew  what  his 
earnings were. If he felt the mortgage  was not affordable he was not under any obligation to 
go ahead. If Mr R felt he would struggle to maintain the mortgage it is not clear to me why he 
accepted the mortgage  offer.
I also note that when Mr R contacted  Halifax in 2004  the mortgage was not in arrears. Mr R 
asked it to confirm that his mortgage would continue. Halifax  confirmed that the mortgage  
would continue. In the circumstances  it is not clear  to me what  more Mr R felt Halifax  should 
have done to assist him at that time.  
Halifax suggested that Mr R should complain to his mortgage broker if he felt it had provided 
incorrect information about his earnings.  I think this was the correct course of action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1652494