K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr W was sold the policy  when he took out a loan in 2003. The cost of the PPI got added  
onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy.  It covered his loan 
payments in case Mr W was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  Mr Ws PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr W completed an application form that was attached to a leaflet. The leaflet explained  that 
Nationwide offered PPI and it was something  he could decide to take or leave. Mr Ws 
application gave  him the choice to take PPI or turn it down, and at that stage  Mr W didnt 
choose it.
Nationwide then phoned Mr W. According  to the record of the call, they told him they 
accepted his application and could even offer him a bigger loan if he wanted. So he wouldve 
known he didnt have  to choose PPI to get accepted for the loan. The staff member then 
recorded that they tried to sell him PPI, and that Mr W said he would think  about  it and let 
Nationwide know later if he wanted the insurance or not. Looking at the sales process that 
staff members were told to follow, it looks like they were instructed to make it clear that the 
PPI was optional.
Ten days  later,  the contact notes record that Mr W phoned Nationwide  back  and, having 
thought about it independently, wanted PPI. He was then sent a credit agreement  which  
reiterated the policy was optional, and set out its costs separately to the cost of the loan itself 
 it was not part and parcel  of the loan. Mr W signed the credit agreement  to confirm his 
choices. Overall, I think its most  likely that Nationwide  made Mr W aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it out at the time  though I can understand 
if he no longer recalls doing  so after so long.
Nationwide didnt give Mr W tailored financial advice about buying  PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. They did have to give Mr W clear information about  the PPI, so 
he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN17777552The cost of the policy was set out clearly on the agreement  including  the premium, the 
interest payable on the premium, and the total cost. And staff were  also instructed to make 
the costs clear when  selling PPI over the phone.  So it looks  like it wouldve  been made clear 
how much  the PPI would  cost Mr W if he chose to take and keep it.
It is possible that Nationwide didnt point out all of the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of those things.  So I dont think  that 
better information about the exclusions wouldve put him off taking out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1777755