K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about a number of loans he took out through  a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr F says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans being granted caused  him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr F took out 4 loans from Sunny between May 2016 and July 2016. Ive 
enclosed a summary of Mr Fs borrowing, based on the information  it provided to us. It can 
be found in the appendix at the end of this decision.  One of our adjudicators has looked into 
the complaint  and said they didnt think it should  be upheld.  Ive now been  asked to make an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Fs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr F could 
repay the loans  he was given in a sustainable  manner.  These  checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr Fs complaint.
Sunny said it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr F, including  assessing 
his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what  was said,  this 
Ref: DRN12352802information showed that Mr F would be able to make  the loan repayments  he was 
committing to. 
Im afraid I too dont  think  theres enough evidence to uphold his complaint. Mr F declared 
his net income  (after  tax) as £1,300  per month  and he also provided  details  about  his 
expenditure. Looking carefully at what he said about  his finances, I think  the repayments 
were probably affordable,  not least because the amounts being borrowed were extended out 
over 6 instalments.  The overall monthly repayments appeared within his capacity to pay.
Bearing in mind what Ive said above,  about the length of the lending relationship, I think  the 
types of financial  checks Sunny  would have carried out would have been quite basic ones. 
And even  though he took out 4 loans, looking at the timescales involved,  Mr F was still in the 
very early stages of a lending relationship with this business. There doesnt seem to be 
anything resulting from the probable  checks that would have caused Sunny to think he was 
in financial trouble or might be unable to pay the loans back.
Its certainly possible that more thorough financial checks could have exposed Mr Fs 
financial situation more  clearly and he may already have  been experiencing difficulties by 
borrowing elsewhere, for example. But the checks Sunny  carried  out probably wouldnt have 
showed these.  
In short,  I think the checks carried out in this case were  proportionate and Im afraid there 
isnt enough evidence to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Im very sorry to have to disappoint Mr F.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr F any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Important  Notice: In the current  circumstances, Mr F can do this by scanning the reply form we've attached and 
emailing it back to us or he can just reply by email to let us know.  We're  not currently  able to receive post.
Ref: DRN12352803Appendix:
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 20/05/2016 31/05/2016 6 £150.00 £42
2 05/06/2016 Debt  Sale Write Off 6 £500.00 £153
3 26/06/2016 Debt  Sale Write Off 6 £350.00 £266
4 10/07/2016 Debt  Sale Write Off 6 £50.00 £281
Ref: DRN1235280