K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Mrs C and Ill explain why. 
Mrs C says she was told she had to have the PPI because  she was a single parent and if 
she didnt, it would affect her getting  the mortgage.  So, to my mind,  she feels she wasnt 
given a fair choice.  
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional and that Mrs C agreed to take it. Halifax  
has no copies of the paperwork from the sale and neither partys  been able to give us much 
detail about how the PPI was sold.  
I think its understandable that neither party has any detailed information about  how the PPI 
was sold because the sale was over 23 years  ago. But because of this Ive not seen enough  
to say its likely Halifax did do things to make Mrs C think the PPI wasnt optional. Or that 
she didnt agree to take it at the time.
Mrs C also says that as a single parent she was pressured into taking out the PPI. For me to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint  on this point I would have  to find that its more  likely than not that 
Halifax acted in this way. As Ive already said, theres very limited information available  from 
the sale itself. So Ive carefully  considered  everything Mrs C has said about this. And having 
done that, I simply dont  have compelling evidence to say that the advisor  put any unfair  
pressure on her. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Ref: DRN10664082Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - including  what shes  said about her 
redundancy cover and sick pay. But PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and as a result she 
couldve used other funds for other  living costs had she found herself out of  or unable  to  
work. Mrs C also says she had an endowment policy and private  health  care.  But PPI gave a 
different type of cover to this. 
Ultimately PPI protected Mrs Cs mortgage, which was a big and long term commitment,  
secured on her home.  So I still think she wouldve found  it useful and so, these points  dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1066408