K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) is acting unfairly and unreasonably when 
setting conditions on its release of the deeds  of his property. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr S had an interest only mortgage  with BoS, which ended in October 2017 without being 
paid in full. Mr S and BoS discussed  the matter, but they werent able to agree a new 
mortgage. Mr S then wanted to re-mortgage with another lender, but this required him to 
register his property with the Land Registry (which his solicitors  at the time of purchase 
shouldve done). This meant that he needed  the deeds held by BoS.  It said that it was willing 
to lend the deeds to Mr S solicitor if they agreed  to be responsible  for them, including when 
the deeds are with the Land  Registry. Mr S said that his solicitors  wouldnt agree to be 
responsible for the deeds when not in their possession  and BoS wouldnt agree to send the 
deeds direct  to the Land Registry. He felt BoS was acting unfairly and unreasonably.
Mr S complained to BoS. It agreed  that it had delayed writing to Mr S solicitors  and paid 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this (£450 compensation was 
separately paid for related service  issues). But it was adamant  that Mr S solicitors had to 
promise to look after the deeds and cover  any costs of reconstruction  if anything happened  
to them.
Mr S complained to us, and said hed got the Land Registrys  agreement to accept certified 
copies of the deeds, which meant the registration  could be progressed. He still felt BoS had 
been awkward. BoS explained that this was the standard process, and partly caused by the 
fact that Mr S solicitors  werent on its panel  (it said that Mr S had been  told this was an 
issue). The investigators view was that BoS was reasonable  in requiring Mr S solicitors to 
be responsible  for the deeds  and it didnt prevent registration. Part of the delay was because  
the solicitors werent willing to agree,  but that wasnt  in her view BoS  fault. She also said 
that it was Mr S choice  to use solicitors to chase BoS, and that the compensation paid to 
date was fair and reasonable.
Mr S disagreed. He said the focus of his complaint was the conditions set by BoS upon his 
solicitors regarding the deeds. Mr S felt BoS hadnt acted reasonably  and the investigator 
had failed to explain  her reasoning for her findings. He wanted  this service to change BoS  
practices.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about whether BoS acted unfairly and unreasonably when setting 
conditions for the release of the deeds to Mr S solicitors. The service issues have been 
resolved through compensation payments and Mr S didnt raise  them  as an issue when 
complaining to this service. Also, this service only deals with individual complaints and 
cannot make  a business change its practices.
Ref: DRN18560072Mr S property hadnt been properly registered  at the Land  Registry  this wasnt  the fault of 
BoS. But in order  to allow Mr S to remortgage, the property needed to be registered and the 
deeds held by BoS as security was needed to do this. As the property wasnt registered, the 
deeds are extremely valuable and its likely to cost a significant sum to reconstruct them if 
they were lost e.g. in the post when sent to the Land Registry by Mr S solicitors. Effectively, 
what BoS conditions did was to make it clear that if anything happened  to the deeds, the 
solicitors would be expected to reconstruct  (or pay for the reconstruction) the deeds  BoS 
would need the deeds to be reconstructed  to preserve its security. 
In my experience, solicitors often ask their clients to agree to be liable  for the costs  if 
something happens to the deeds  and matters  proceed. Mr S was also told that he could  use 
a panel solicitor, but chose not to do so. Having considered the matter, and the relevant law, 
I think BoS acted fairly and reasonably  in requiring the solicitors to be responsible for the 
deeds and not sending  the deeds  direct  to the Land Registry in order  to ensure as much as 
possible that its security was protected at Mr S expense.
And some of the delays were caused  by the solicitors not agreeing  to BoS conditions.  I dont 
know if they asked  Mr S to agree to pay if the deeds were  lost or damaged. Its also relevant 
for me to note that the Land  Registry  was willing to accept certified copies  of the deeds, 
something which solicitors should  be able to advise meant that the original deeds didnt need 
to be sent.
I also dont think that its fair or reasonable for the legal fees incurred  in chasing BoS should 
be paid as it was Mr S choice to instruct  solicitors  to do this. The evidence shows  Mr S was 
able to complain.  And in any event, he has received £550 compensation for the trouble and 
upset due to the service  issues  accepted  by BoS,  which in my view does fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr S, as much  as money can compensate for his trouble  and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
23 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1856007